DRN-3431358
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Barclays Bank UK PLC overcharged them interest on their mortgage 
account in March 2020. Theyre also unhappy with the service they received from Barclays 
after they raised their concerns.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a mortgage of around £659,700. In February 2019, they applied to 
change their mortgage product from a fixed rate to a variable interest rate tracking the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate) plus 0.68% (the margin) for an initial period of 
24 months. At that time, the base rate was 0.75%. So the rate on their mortgage was 1.43%. 
The term of the mortgage was 33 years with monthly repayments of around £2,090 for the 
first 24 months.
On 11 March 2020, the base rate changed from 0.75% to 0.25%. And on 19 March 2020, it 
changed again to 0.10%. But Mr and Mrs B noticed the interest rate applied to their 
outstanding balance didnt change. On 16 March 2020, Barclays sent Mr and Mrs B a 
revised payment notice explaining their monthly repayments and the interest rate on their 
mortgage would be changing to 0.93% from 1 April 2020 to reflect the base rate change.
As Mr and Mrs B were unhappy the rate hadnt changed immediately to maintain the margin 
of 0.68% above the base rate, they made a complaint to Barclays that it wasnt acting in line 
with the terms and conditions on the account. Theyve said they were told the interest rate 
wouldnt usually be updated immediately. And in its final response letter, Barclays said 
customers wouldnt see a change in the payments until the following month as the 
contractual monthly payments are calculated in arrears.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs B asked our service to look into things. They 
highlighted it hadnt addressed the specific complaint theyd raised about the interest rate 
change  and instead focussed on the contractual monthly payment changing. They also 
explained theyd suffered inconvenience in having to chase Barclays to get an answer.
 Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she wouldnt expect Barclays to apply 
changes to the interest rate immediately as it needs time to notify customers. As 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I was given the mortgage offer, terms and conditions on the account, the transaction 
list and correspondence to Mr and Mrs B about the account.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Ive copied my provisional 
findings below which forms part of this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im 
planning to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage offer Ive been given says the mortgage was on a rate which varies in 
accordance with the base rate. Mr and Mrs B have also given our service a copy of the 
residential mortgage conditions they received when they took their mortgage. Barclays has 
confirmed it is the correct and relevant edition. Under section four, the terms and conditions 
explain what happens if the interest rate changes. This includes an illustration of how the 
rate would be calculated if it changed midway through an interest period. It says:
[W]e will use the old rate to calculate the interest you have to pay up to the date the new 
rate takes effect and then use the new rate for the rest of the interest period.
We will adjust your monthly payment to take account of the interest rate change.
The illustration also shows the old rate would be applied until the date the rate changes, 
after which, the new rate would apply. So I am currently satisfied under these terms, the 
interest rate change would apply immediately.
In this case, according to the mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs Bs rate should have been set at 
0.68% above the base rate. From 11 March 2020 until 18 March 2020, that would mean the 
rate that shouldve applied to their mortgage was 0.93%. And from 19 March 2020, it 
shouldve been 0.78%. But having looked at the transaction list Ive been given by Barclays, 
I can see the interest rate applied until the end of March 2020 was 1.43% and it didnt reflect 
the change in the base rate until 1 April 2020.
Section seven of the terms and conditions specifically relates to changes to the rate for 
mortgages tracking external reference rates including the Bank of England base rate. So this 
is the relevant section for Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account. This says:
The interest rate applicable to your loan will be the reference rate plus the margin. The 
margin is the extra interest rate percentage points above the reference rate charged for 
your mortgage product that is set out in your Offer Letter.
And it goes on to explain:
We will never change the agreed margin set out in your Offer Letter.
The margin set out in Mr and Mrs Bs offer letter was 0.68% above the base rate. But the 
interest rate wasnt amended to reflect the change in the base rate until around three weeks 
after it first changed. That means, for that period, the margin applied to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage was actually 1.18% until 18 March 2020 and 1.33%. So it had changed without 
their agreement.
 Barclays has sent me the terms and conditions for 2018 and 2020. I note in the section 
relating to reference rate tracker mortgages, the 2020 edition says:
Any variation to the interest rate as a result of a change in the reference rate will take place 
within one month of the announcement of such change.
I havent considered whether this wording means the rate doesnt need to be changed 
immediately in light of the remaining terms and conditions. But I do question why it was 
added from 2020 if Barclays terms always allowed it to delay changes to the interest rate.I appreciate Barclays has said the contractual monthly payments are collected in arrears so 
Mr and Mrs B wouldnt notice a difference in their payments until the following month. But I 
dont think that makes a difference here. Whilst the monthly payment might be adjusted the 
following month, based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied under the terms of the 
mortgage, the daily interest added to the balance should have been changed immediately.
Mr and Mrs B have said Barclays has not looked into their specific concerns and I can see 
from their final response letter that seems to be the case. Theyve given dates and times 
they called to chase for a response and to explain things again. And I accept that wouldve 
caused them inconvenience whilst also feeling frustrated they hadnt been listened to.
To put things right in this case, I thought Barclays should rework Mr and Mrs Bs account as 
though the interest rate had changed on 11 March 2020 and 19 March 2020 in line with the 
base rate. And it should refund any overpayments they mightve made plus 8% simple 
interest on that amount. I also thought it should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 as compensation.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt think the amount of compensation Id suggested Barclays pay was 
enough considering the amount of time theyd spent on the complaint. They thought a fairer 
amount would be £500 based on Mr Bs professional earnings. They also highlighted 
Barclays hadnt made our time limits clear to them. 
Barclays didnt accept my provisional findings but it offered £450 as a gesture of goodwill. It 
said in summary:
Theres no exact timescale in the terms for when the interest rate will be amended to 
reflect changes in the base rate.
The additional wording in the 2020 terms was added as part of its standard updates to 
continuously improve things for customers. It doesnt indicate any changes in timescales.
The terms and conditions say Barclays will advertise when the base rate has changed 
but this doesnt mean it has to reflect those changes on customer accounts immediately. 
It doesnt agree with my interpretation of the illustration under section four of the terms 
and conditions. Instead it says the old rate applies until the new rate takes effect. And 
that point is whenever Barclays updates the interest rate on the account.
It didnt change the margin on Mr and Mrs Bs account. 
Changes to the base rate take time to update on the system whether it goes up or down. 
And thats not an unusual industry practice. 
Its offer of £450 is more than the difference in payments Mr and Mrs B made between 
the time the base rate went down and when the rate on their account was reduced. After 
calculating the settlement Id suggested, it confirmed its offer is more generous. 
Mr and Mrs B declined Barclays offer as it didnt provide any separate compensation for the 
inconvenience theyve suffered. They also werent happy Barclays hadnt acknowledged the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage were applied incorrectly.In July 2022, I issued a second provisional decision to both parties. In my provisional 
decision, I said:
Ive thought very carefully about what both parties have said, and I think this complaint 
should still be upheld. But I think Barclays should put things right by paying the offer its 
now made as it puts Mr and Mrs B in a better position than the settlement I suggested. And I 
dont agree with Mr and Mrs B that it should pay them more compensation. Ill explain why.
Terms and conditions of the account
Barclays has highlighted the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs account dont 
specify timeframes for making changes. But Ive considered each term in light of the 
contract as a whole and where terms are ambiguous or unclear, Ive read them in 
favour of Mr and Mrs B. Based on this, I dont accept its interpretation of the terms.
Barclays has said it didnt change the margin on Mr and Mrs Bs account and it remained at 
the same level until their interest rate was updated in April 2020 but I dont agree. Under the 
terms, the margin on Mr and Mrs Bs account should have been 0.68% above the base rate 
at all times unless they agreed to it changing. By Barclays not amending Mr and Mrs Bs 
rate on their account for around three weeks, the margin between the base rate and the 
rate on their account went above 0.68% - first 1.18% and then 1.33%. Barclays terms say 
itll never change the margin without agreement and it is responsible for setting and 
maintaining the margin. So by it not taking action, in effect, Im satisfied it changed it.
Barclays says it has no control over the base rate as its an external rate set by the
Bank of England  and I accept that. But it did decide on and set the margin which formed 
part of the mortgage offer. So, when the base rate went down, the interest rate on 
Mr and Mrs Bs account shouldve also gone down to maintain the same margin. Ive seen 
nothing on this case to suggest Barclays got Mr and Mrs Bs agreement for the margin to 
change, even temporarily. So Im satisfied it didnt apply its terms correctly in this case.
I note Barclays has said the terms changed in the 2020 edition as part of its regular 
review to improve things for customers. And I understand thats standard practice. But if, 
as it says, the contract terms were already clear enough about the timescale in which 
changes need to be made, I question why this new wording was needed.
Barclays has said the illustration under section four means the new rate takes effect and 
the old rate ends whenever the customers personal interest rate is updated  and its got 
nothing to do with the base rate changing. But Im not satisfied that makes sense here. I 
say this because of course the new rate will start whenever Barclays applies it so I cant 
see why that would be highlighted in the terms and conditions.
I appreciate Barclays internal systems might not allow for rate changes to take effect 
immediately  and I accept it might not be standard industry practice to do so. But I need to 
take into account the law, good practice and whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances when deciding this complaint. And in this case, Im satisfied under the terms 
of the account, changes in the base rate should be reflected straight away and I think 
Mr and Mrs B relied on those terms.
Distress and inconvenience
To decide whats a fair amount of compensation in this case, Ive considered the likely 
impact of what went wrong on Mr and Mrs B. In particular, Ive thought about the time they 
spent chasing Barclays and that Barclays didnt do what it said, looked into the wrong thing 
and closed their case incorrectly.From Mr and Mrs Bs timeline, it seems they spoke to Barclays around five times to get 
updates and explain what their complaint was about again. And the total amount of time 
from when they first got in touch with Barclays to when they received its second final 
response letter was around six weeks. So whilst I accept their experience mustve been 
frustrating and caused them some inconvenience, Im satisfied the amount of compensation 
Ive suggested, is enough to make up for this.
Mr Bs given us details of his professional earnings but I dont think thats relevant here as 
hes brought the complaint in his personal capacity and I havent seen any suggestion he 
couldnt work as a consequence of the complaint. So I dont think it would be fair in this 
case to calculate the compensation based on his earnings.
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy Barclays didnt highlight they had six months from the date 
of its first final response letter to refer their complaint to our service. But Im satisfied the 
information is included in that letter. And in any event, they did refer their complaint in time.
To put things right in this case, Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs B the £450 its offered 
them. I am not directing it to pay any additional compensation in addition to this offer.
I asked both parties to make any further comments in response to my second provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs B didnt respond by the deadline set. Barclays asked whether the 
complaint could be settled informally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comments about my findings in my second provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my conclusions set out. So I uphold this complaint for 
the reasons given in my provisional decisions.
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs B the £450 its offered them. 
It does not need to pay any additional compensation in addition to this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 September 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman