DRN-3866660
The complaint
S complains about the way the Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) has handled a claim it made on its 
commercial motor insurance policy following an impact with a third party
What happened
In December 2020 Ss lorry was impacted by a third-party forklift (TP). Initially it was thought 
that the TP and S would settle this matter privately. But after no contact from the TP, S 
decided to submit a claim to Lloyds in March 2021.
After many months of negotiation and discussion, Lloyds offered S a cash-in-lieu settlement 
of £4,942.78. But S was unhappy with this amount saying that it wouldnt cover the cost of 
the repair. 
So, S brought a complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said 
that the cash-in-lieu settlement was fair, but that Lloyds should pay S £500 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Lloyds thought £500 was too much, so the complaint is now with me for a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 January 2023. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
S is covered for accidental damage. The policy says if there is accidental damage it will 
either cover the repair costs or pay a cash amount. The most the policy pays will be either: 
The UK mainland market value of your vehicle as determined by us, immediately before the 
loss; up to the value shown on your schedule or the amount it would cost us to repair your 
vehicle at an ERS approved repairer or as otherwise agreed by our appointed engineer 
whichever is less. The policy also says We will not pay the VAT element of any claim if you 
are registered for VAT"
Under the heading of repairs the policy says, We can, if you wish, organise for our approved 
repairers to repair your vehicle." It also says that if you choose to use your own repairer 
certain things wont be covered such as delays and a hire car. The policy states "We may 
arrange for your vehicle to go to a repairer of our choice if we cannot reach an agreement 
with your chosen repairer over costs.
And that is exactly whats happened here. Lloyds dont agree with the repair estimate 
provided by Ss repairer. But S says its not possible to repair the vehicle for the amount 
Lloyds is offering.
So, lets look at what each party has provided. S initially went to a repairer who provided an 
initial Audatex estimate. This estimate cost the repair at £5,715. In August 2021 when the 
repairer got to give the lorry a thorough examination it provided a more comprehensive 
Audatex estimate and it cost the repairs at £9,064.
The same week the vehicle manufacturers did an initial costing for Lloyds. The first estimate 
was £1,864+VAT. But then a further costing of £5,937 (incl VAT) was provided. 
After S raised question marks over the costing from Lloyds, Lloyds asked an independent 
engineer to review the estimate from the vehicle manufacturers. His estimate came in at 
£5,442+VAT. So, S then obtained the opinion of an independent engineer of its own. He said 
that Lloyds costs were unrealistic, and he raised questions over the manufacturers ability to 
complete the repair at the cost proposed. 
Lloyds said that the garage chosen by S wasnt an approved repairer and as per its policy 
terms and conditions, because it couldnt come to an agreement with this specific garage on 
repair costs, it was only obliged to either ask S to get the lorry repaired at its approved 
garage, or pay cash-in-lieu up to what its own approved repairer/engineer had agreed.
And I think that would be fine, if there was a legitimate reason why costs couldnt be agreed, 
or if there were no question marks over the costs presented by the approved repairer. 
But two things jump out at me from this file. The first is that there was a clearly a falling out 
between Lloyds and Ss preferred repairer. So much so that Lloyds independent engineer 
urged Lloyds to settle this claim via a cash settlement. And secondly, S obtained the advice 
of a fully qualified member of the Institute of Automotive Engineer Assessors, and this advice 
seems to have been completely ignored. I appreciate what the policy says, and I agree that it 
says that Lloyds will only pay up the amount approved by its own appointed engineer or 
costs approved by its own repairer. However, if what appears to be a more qualified 
engineer, who is a member of a recognised expert body raises questions about the standard 
of estimates provided and also asks questions about contradictory comments contained in 
the repair reports being used, I think it would only be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to at 
least take into consideration what this fully qualified engineer has said. And that hasnt 
happened here. 
Its not my role to say which is the more qualified engineer. Both engineers are likely to be 
experts in their specific field with comparable experience. But the qualifications of the 
engineer do have a bearing on the decision I will make. In short, its likely I will be more 
persuaded by an engineer with a higher qualification or who is a member of a recognised 
expert body such as the Institute of Automotive Engineer Assessors. 
In this case the independent engineer that S acquired raised some legitimate concerns, and 
these concerns werent even acknowledged. He pointed out that the Audatex estimating 
system, the one used by Ss preferred garage is the standard one used by the majority of 
repairers in the UK. He quite rightly points to the detailed breakdown the Audatex report 
contains, which is in stark contrast to the reports provided by Lloyds approved repairer. He 
also raises questions about the figures presented for paint and materials, and he has pointed 
out that the report obtained by Lloyds from the vehicle manufacturer didnt include a costing 
for the jig to test alignment or jig bracket hire. The strange thing is that the independent 
engineer for Lloyds actually mentions this in his remarks, but then didnt feel the need to 
amend the costing Lloyds provided to factor it in. 
Looking across all reports I dont think the figures presented to Lloyds by its approved 
repairer are a true reflection of the actual cost to repair the damage. And in this regard, Im 
more persuaded by the comments made by the independent engineer appointed by S. I think his commentary holds more weight. He raises legitimate questions about labour times, 
paint and material costs and in particular he points out that Ss estimate is supported by a 
better and more thorough estimating tool. He seriously doubts if the manufacturer would be 
able to repair this lorry for the cash amount being recommended by Lloyds, and from what 
Ive seen Im inclined to agree. 
I appreciate and acknowledge that the terms indicate that Lloyds engineer should have the 
last say on this. But I think that the evidence provided by S holds more weight than that 
provided by Lloyds. The overriding objective of the policy is to cover S for the damage it has 
suffered. And I think the term in the policy should only stand if the estimate is correct. But in 
this case, a qualified member of a professional body has raised doubt over the estimate cost 
of repairs provided to Lloyds. As such it is only fair and reasonable to go with the more 
comprehensive estimate, and that is the Audatex provided by Ss preferred repairer.  
One thing that does raise a question mark is the damage to the rear wing/fairing beside the 
number plate on the lorry. Ss repairer has included it but Lloyds say its inconsistent with the 
other damage. Looking at the photo I agree that its away from the cab damage. But this 
damage was caused by a forklift and given that the prongs of a forklift are often quite high 
and away from the body of the forklift itself, its not unreasonable to link this damage with 
that caused in the impact. My understanding is that the forklift skidded on ice, so the body of 
the forklift is likely to have impacted the back of the lorry, whilst the prongs damaged the 
cab. And as the damage looks fresh, Im going to say that it more likely than not happened 
during this impact, so should be included in the claim. 
Ive also looked at the compensation Lloyds has already paid, and Ive considered what our 
investigator recommended. I note what S has said about how it had to work, because this 
lorry was off the road for so long. Ive weighed this up with the fact that there were a lot of 
delays. But a number of these delays were out of Lloyds control, as it took three months 
before Lloyds actually received the claim, and then another two before a complete estimate 
was provided. 
But there were delays and S has been inconvenienced by the delays caused when 
negotiations were ongoing. S has told us that it was working on 75% capacity with one lorry 
off the road, and it says it lost time, wages and reputation as a result. So, compensation is 
due. I note Lloyds has already paid £100. So, Im going to recommend exactly what our 
investigator has recommended Lloyds pay, which is £500 compensation in total (so £400 on 
top of the £100 already paid) for the inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 13 January 2023.
Both parties have responded. S advised that a pallet fell from the forklift and impacted the 
body of the lorry, contributing to the damage. S also provided the final invoice which set out 
how much it paid to have the lorry repaired. 
Lloyds has also responded. It states that all engineers involved in its investigation are 
Institute of Automotive Engineer Assessor (IAEA) qualified, and it asks whether I discount 
IMI qualifications or regard the IAEA as a higher qualification. Lloyds say that aside from the 
IAEA qualification, the other qualifications held by Ss independent engineer are purchased 
on subscription.Lloyds has also pointed out that the Audatex report provided by Ss garage has a number of 
asterisks in it. Lloyds say this is called Audatex mace and means the entry was input 
manually and is entered as an opinion by the user. Lloyds also say that its estimate was 
provided by an approved manufacturers dealership, and that there is significant pre-existing 
corrosion on the damaged panel. Lloyds say S should be contributing to this repair as the 
corrosion is not part of the accident. Finally, Lloyds say that as its repairer was an approved 
dealer it already had a jig and bracket, so no hire costs wouldve been incurred. 
So, lets start with the qualifications first. In my provisional decision I said that it wasnt my 
role to say which is the more qualified engineer. I did acknowledge that both engineers were 
likely to be experts in their specific field with comparable experience. However, in a scenario 
where there are conflicting representations from two experts, one of the things we would 
look at is whether either expert is a member of a recognised expert body. I acknowledge that 
motor assessors can be qualified via different qualifying bodies. But the IAEA is recognised 
in the UK as the leading expert body, which also recognises its members as part of the 
international association of automobile experts FIEA. To be a member of the IAEA, specific 
experience, knowledge and qualifications are required. Further to this you are required to 
pass specific exams and have fulfilled specific requirements assigned to each grade. You 
are also obliged to abide by a Code of Conduct laid down to govern the professional conduct 
of its members.
In this instance the IAEA website lists the engineer that S used as a full member of the IAEA. 
The engineer used by Lloyds is not currently listed on this website. He may previously have 
been a member, or just not paid his annual subscription. But Ss engineer is listed as a 
member and as such, I feel the opinion set out by Ss engineer holds more weight.
Lloyds have raised the fact that Ss garage used whats called Audatex mace, a mechanism 
on the Audatex system which allows the Audatex author to enter an opinion on the system. 
And reading back through Ss engineers report I note that the engineer says, I readily 
accept that (Ss garage report) is based upon opinion times, as the asterisks alongside 
confirms. But this engineer says before this that the first estimate submitted by Lloyds 
preferred repairer is clearly based on the cab not being removed, so repairs would never 
have been at the manufacturers required standard. He then says that the second report is 
produced on the Kerridge invoicing software platform, which is not an estimating system and 
doesnt have a breakdown of repair methods or repair times. 
I acknowledge that the estimate provided by Lloyds is from an approved dealership. But in a 
situation where there is a dispute between two experts, its things like the engineers 
qualifications and tools used that will persuade this service. In this specific complaint we 
have a full member of the IAEA pointing out that Lloyds garage used an invoicing software 
platform to present its costs, while Ss garage used a widely recognised estimating software 
platform to calculate its costs. Im not here to determine which is correct. The reality is that 
both platforms will produce a costing for repair. However, I am more persuaded by the 
evidence provided by S to support its case as it has used a more widely recognisable repair 
estimating tool. 
In relation to the corrosion present on the rear wall of the cab, Ive gone back through all the 
reports again. Its clear there was corrosion present. But I note that on the Audatex report 
provided by S, a new rear bulkhead is listed as required. This is mirrored in the approved 
manufacturing dealerships report when it says, fit new back panel. The report from Lloyds 
engineer says "Despite the corrosion to rear wall, the rear wall would require replacement as 
a result of the accident damage and the report from Ss engineer repeats this asking the 
why the manufacturing dealership ever thought this damage could be repaired. Because of 
this, even with the corrosion, the accident damage was bad enough to require a back-panel 
replacement, and this is agreed by all parties. So, I dont think the corrosion impacts the panel replacement and Im not sure why Lloyds are looking for a contribution from S. In 
relation to the jig, I do note and acknowledge Lloyds comments about the jig and jig bracket 
hire not being necessary at the approved dealership, as it likely has these tools on site. 
Having reviewed everything, including the actual invoice paid by S and taking into 
consideration what it says in the policy terms and conditions, I remain of the opinion that the 
fair and reasonable outcome is for Lloyds to pay the claim up to the amount on the Audatex 
estimate provided by Ss garage. I also think that Lloyds should pay £500 in compensation 
to S for the inconvenience caused for the reasons I set out previously. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyd's to pay:
the difference between what it has already paid, and the amount on the Audatex 
report provided by Ss garage (excluding VAT). Simple interest of 8% should be 
added to this amount from the date the cash-in-lieu settlement was paid to the date 
of payment for the reasons Ive set out above. As excess has already been deducted 
it should not be deducted again.
£500 in total compensation (less any compensation already paid) for the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman