DRN-3994421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) havent refunded them after they 
were the victims of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a joint account with Monzo. As it was Mrs H who fell victim to the scam, 
Ill mainly refer to her in this decision. 
On 17 July 2022 Mrs H received a message that she believed was from her son, but it was 
actually sent by a fraudster. Mrs H was told the senders phone had crashed and the number 
the message came from was a temporary number. Soon after the scammer told Mrs H that 
he was unable to make a payment because the security number went to his old phone. The 
scammer asked Mrs H if she would make the payment and hed pay her back on 
Wednesday. Mrs H asked the reason for the payment and the scammer told her it was for 
furniture hed already bought. 
Mrs H transferred £2,230.14 to the account details supplied to her. After shed sent the 
payment she asked if the sender was being threatened and suggested using Mr Hs phone 
as he was getting annoyed with all the messages she was receiving. Mrs H was then asked 
to make a further payment but said she wouldnt make it unless the sender called and spoke 
to her.
Mrs H reported the scam to Monzo at 14:00 on the day of the scam. Monzo considered Mrs 
Hs claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Code (CRM 
Code). Although Monzo hasnt signed up to the code it has agreed to apply the principles of 
it. Monzo didnt agree to provide a refund because it said Mrs H didnt take enough steps to 
check who she was paying and what she was paying for. Monzo also contacted the bank 
that received Mrs Hs funds but was told that there were no funds left in the receiving 
account to return. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld. He said this 
because he didnt think Monzo had demonstrated that it could fairly rely on an exception to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code. The investigator also said that had Monzo contacted 
the receiving bank sooner as he thought Monzo should have, Monzo would have been able 
to recover all the funds lost in the scam. 
Mr H accepted what the investigator said but Monzo didnt. In summary, it said:
- Its unreasonable to expect Monzo to have reached out to the bank that received Mr 
and Mrs Hs funds before they were removed from the account if the receiving bank 
didnt use a new portal designed to allow immediate reporting of scam transactions. 
- Monzo referred to some guidance in respect of the CRM Code and said it has 24 
hours to decide if a customer is a victim of a scam. Monzo said it acted correctly and 
adhered to relevant timescales in reviewing the information provided and then 
contacting the receiving bank.
- Mrs H didnt have a reasonable basis to believe she was communicating with her 
son. This was because:
oShe asked to speak to the scammer on multiple occasions showing she had 
concerns and that she was capable of recognising the possibility she was 
being scammed. 
oThe investigator said that Mrs Hs phone messages were annoying her 
husband so it would have been better to have called.
oMonzo hasnt been provided with any genuine conversations between Mrs H 
and her son to understand how they usually communicated. 
oGiven Mr and Mrs Hs sons previous difficulties Mrs H should have 
completed more due diligence before transferring funds to an unknown 
recipient. 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has now been passed to me to review and issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr and Mrs H are liable for transactions Mrs H has 
carried out herself. But Monzo have agreed to consider claims in line with the CRM Code 
and also have a longstanding obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions which might indicate their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs H was tricked into making the payments. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse victims of APP scams like this one unless it can establish that it 
can rely on one of the listed exceptions set out in it. Under the CRM Code, a bank may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are other exceptions that are not relevant to this case. 
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mrs H lacked a reasonable basis of belief when 
she made the payment because:
- When considering if the reasonable basis for belief exception can be applied, the 
CRM Code requires me to take into consideration all the circumstances at the time of 
the payment including the characteristics of the customer. Mrs H has explained that 
she was a full-time carer for Mr H which she found to be stressful. Added to this, Mr 
H used to deal with their finances. With the benefit of hindsight, its easy to say Mrs H 
should have called her son but given the stress she was under and the other factors 
Ive listed below I dont consider she acted unreasonably in not doing so. 
- Mrs H has told Monzo and this service of the difficulties her son had experienced and 
the debts he had built up. She has referred to multiple defaults, County Court judgements and dealings with a debt management company. Im persuaded that 
these factors, and previous requests for money from her son, were in Mrs Hs mind 
when she received the scam messages. Mrs Hs son also regularly changed phones 
and numbers to avoid contact from debt collectors, so a new phone number wasnt 
unusual. In these circumstances, I can understand why Mrs H believed the 
messages were from her son.
- The scammer said he could return the funds on Wednesday. Mrs Hs son had a new 
job and was paid on a Wednesday. This helped to reassure Mrs H that she was 
messaging her son. 
- I consider Monzo has misinterpreted the timing of the chat messages Mrs H has 
provided. Mrs H did ask to speak to her son on more than one occasion. And had 
she spoken to him the scam would have been uncovered. But Im satisfied that the 
requests to speak to the person sending the messages were only made after Mrs H 
had made the scam payment. She didnt make the further payment the scammer 
asked for without speaking to her son. Likewise, Mrs H asked the person she thought 
was her son whether he was being threatened after shed made the scam payment. 
Monzo has said it hasnt been provided with previous messages to understand what a 
normal exchange of messages looked like. Monzo investigated Mr and Mrs Hs claim before 
it was referred to this service, so had the opportunity to gather this evidence then. 
Given the conclusion I have reached above, I consider Monzo should reimburse Mr and Mrs 
H in full. For the sake of completeness though, Ill cover Monzos response to the scam claim 
in terms of recovery of funds.
I dont agree with Monzo that it has 24 hours to decide if a customer is the victim of a scam 
and contact the receiving bank. The guidance Monzo has quoted relates to how a fraud 
reporting call is routed and says a call should be directed to a specialised department 
immediately. Where this cant happen, a customer should receive a call back as soon as 
possible and within 24 hours.  
The CRM Code itself sets out what are described as standards for firms. In respect of 
sending firms responses, the CRM Code says at SF1(6):
Where an APP scam is reported to a Firm, the sending Firm should:
(a) Notify any UK receiving Firms in accordance with the procedure and timeframes set 
out in the Best Practice Standards.
(b) If a Firm is not a signatory to the Best Practice Standards, the Firm must have in 
place equivalent procedures to notify UK receiving Firms in a timely manner to 
enable the receiving Firms to meet the requirements under SF2(5).
The Best Practice Standards referred to in the CRM Code say that a sending bank should 
notify a receiving bank of an APP scam immediately. So I dont consider the delay in 
contacting the receiving bank in this case was reasonable. The scam was reported at 14:00 
and Monzo didnt contact the bank that received the funds until 20:41. Mr and Mrs Hs funds 
left the receiving account not long before Monzos notification, meaning that if Monzo had 
acted more promptly all Mr and Mrs Hs funds could have been returned to them. 
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo should refund Mr and Mrs Hs loss, plus interest as set out 
below. My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund £2,230.14;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
Monzos decision not to meet the claim in line with the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement  less any tax that is lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman