DRN-3534438
The complaint
Mr P, represented by Mrs P, says HSBC UK Bank Plc caused significant stress and 
inconvenience when he tried to open a student account. 
What happened
Mrs P applied for a student account on Mr Ps behalf in late August 2021. The application 
took around a month to process, twice his passport was unreadable, and it had to be re-
scanned. When Mr P chased up his application he was told he would receive his card soon. 
But instead he received a call saying his application had been declined. A second 
application was made in December 2021 and declined for the same reason  a failed credit 
score. Mrs P says she called to discuss this but was told only Mr Ps existing savings 
account could be seen on the system, not the recent application.
In its final response letter(s) HSBC said the passport images were blurred and there was an 
address mismatch on the initial application, but Mr P updated his address in a branch on 17 
September. His application was processed on 15 October, but it was declined based on 
combination of factors that led to it failing the credit score. It said its records do not show that 
a second application was made on the 10 October. It offered a total of £150 compensation 
for both parties to recognise the inconvenience caused by the delays during the application 
process.
Mrs P wants HSBC to open a full student account for Mr P with a student credit card too. 
She wants it to explain why the account wasnt opened originally saying it cant be due to a 
poor credit score as Mr P has had no adverse credit and has lived at the same address all 
his life. She wants them both to be compensated for the wasted time and stress HSBC has 
caused.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said HSBC had offered Mr P an 
alternative account with no lending and she felt this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
She found the banks compensation offer of £75 for each party was fair for the service 
issues.
Mr P disagreed with this assessment. He said if he had failed the credit score this would 
have shown up straight away and so there was no need for him to sort out the proof of id 
and address. No alternative account was suggested, and he no longer wishes to have an 
account with HSBC. He wants £300 compensation in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The declined applications
HSBC is entitled to set the acceptance criteria for its products. In this case it has told Mr P it 
considered information provided on the application form; information on existing accounts 
and data from a credit reference agency. Its decision was based on a combination of these 
factors. I have seen no evidence of an error in how it applied it decisioning criteria so I 
cannot force HSBC to make a different decision. It seems most likely it was Mr Ps request to 
borrow with both a £1,000 overdraft and a credit card that led to a decline, given he would 
have a very thin credit history due to his life stage. But I say this to try and help him 
understand the decision, not based on the banks submission.
HSBCs records show that when it rejected this application, it offered a bank account with no 
overdraft. I understand Mr P does not recall this and asked to see the letter, but HSBC has 
explained this would have been a verbal offer made at the point the application is declined. 
An overdraft was also requested on the December application that was declined.  Overall, I 
have not found any failings with the decisions to decline the applications.
Mr P asked why he had to waste time providing proof of identification and address when 
hed failed the credit score, but I find he has made assumptions about the banks processes. 
The application would not proceed for final approval until all the necessary customer 
verification work was complete. 
The service  
I only have the power to endorse a compensation award made to eligible complainants, as 
defined by the rules we must follow. That is Mr P in this case. Any payment for Mrs P would 
need to be arranged between her and the bank directly. I note it made an offer to her in its 
final response letter. 
I agree that Mr P was inconvenienced as there were delays during his initial application, and 
he had to make branch visits. I think the £75 compensation HSBC offered him is fair. To 
reach this decision I have considered what Mr P had to do and over what time period, as 
well as the stress of waiting for a decision between 17 September and 15 October 2021. He 
should contact HSBC directly if he wishes to accept this payment. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman