DRN-3594673
The complaint
Miss A complains that her bank Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund the money 
she has lost following her being the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Miss A saw a post on a friends social media account explaining how she had 
benefited from taking advantage of a cryptocurrency investment. Intrigued by the potential 
returns offered by the investment Miss A contacted her friend via the social media platform 
and was put in touch with a third party that I will call (B).
It turned out that this investment was a scam and Miss As friends social media account had 
been hacked by B.
B convinced Miss A to make payments from her account with the promise of substantial 
investment returns. 
After Miss A had made several payments requested by B a payment of £2,500 was stopped 
by Mastercard. Miss A contacted Monzo via its chat facility and was told the payment had 
been stopped by Mastercard due to its fraud system. Despite several unusual payments 
having been made by Miss A by this point Monzo did not ask any further questions about the 
payments and simply advised her that she could try using a different card or try the payment 
another time.
Following this online conversation Miss A made further payments of £6,500 requested by B. 
This brought Miss As total loss to £9,100.
Our Investigator considered Miss As complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought 
that the activity on Miss As account was inconsistent with the way the account was 
generally used, larger payments than normal were being made in succession in the early 
hours of the day, and Monzo should have done more when Miss A contacted it about the 
£2,500 payment she was trying to make.
Our Investigator thought that had Monzo done more it could have prevented the transactions 
that took place after Miss A contacted it. So Monzo should pay back some of the money 
Miss A lost after she contacted it. Our Investigator recognised that Miss A could also have 
done more to prevent her loss so said it would be reasonable for Monzo to deduct 25% from 
this amount.
Miss A agreed with the outcome suggested by our Investigator. Monzo didnt agree so this 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Miss A and Monzo set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Monzo should 
refund any of the money Miss A has lost because of this scam.
I have looked at Miss As bank statements and can see that prior to this event she made 
relatively low payments from her account, usually below £100. I am also unable to see any 
previous payments to the recipients she sent the larger payments to at the time of the scam.
Miss A had made several payments that were larger than usual and inconsistent with her 
usual spending habits by the time she contacted Monzo as a payment had been stopped by 
Mastercards fraud detection measures. The payments Miss A was making were also made 
in the early hours of the day between 2-6am.
Considering this irregular activity and the fraud detection by Mastercard - which for the 
avoidance of doubt I also think should have been triggered by Monzo - I think Monzo should 
have checked Miss As account and asked further questions around the payments she was 
making. By this point I think Monzo was aware of a potential problem. I think if Monzo had 
done this it could have discouraged Miss A from making any further payments to B and 
saved her any further loss. Especially if she was asked to explain the circumstances leading 
to the payments. 
Miss A was not a regular investor in crypto so I would not expect her to know how these 
types of investments usually work, or to spot any potential fraud. However, I do accept Miss 
A could have done more research herself before sending funds to B.
As Monzo failed to step in at a reasonable time to prevent Miss A incurring further losses it 
should refund her. However, I think its fair for Monzo to make a deduction from this payment 
as Miss A is also partly responsible for her loss.
Monzo has explained that it feels a deduction of greater than 25% from the refund should be 
considered. But as Ive said above Miss A was not familiar with investment processes and 
Monzo failed to step in at an appropriate time when it had the opportunity to do so. So, I 
dont think any further deduction from this payment would be fair.
Putting things right
Following Miss A contacting Monzo about a failed payment she lost a further £6,500 to the 
scam.
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund Miss A the £6,500 she lost due to Monzo Bank Ltd not 
intervening when it could have. Monzo Bank Ltd can make a 25% deduction from this figure 
to reflect Miss As failure to carry out reasonable checks before making payments from her 
account.
Monzo Bank Ltd should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Miss A from 
the time Miss A made the payments to the time Monzo Bank Ltd provides the refund (less 
any lawfully deductible tax).My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to refund Miss A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman