DRN-2783254
The complaint
Mr S complains about the success fee charged by MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCS) following a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr S instructed MCS to represent him in a claim for mis-sold PPI. Following 
this, a lender offered Mr S a settlement to compensate him for failing to disclose the high 
level of commission it received when it sold him PPI.
MCS invoiced Mr S for a success fee of 37.5% plus VAT of the settlement. Mr S complained 
about the fee because this was above the regulatory fee cap (of 20% plus VAT) for PPI 
claims.
MCS said that the settlement Mr S had received wasnt in relation to PPI, it was in relation to 
undisclosed commission (Plevin). It referred to rules and guidance published by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) relating to the commission earned on a PPI sale. 
MCS said that PPI and undisclosed commission are not related products and are 
investigated separately. It said the fee for a complaint relating to the mis-selling of PPI would 
be 20% plus VAT. But Mr Ss complaint related to undisclosed commission and the fee for 
this was 37.5% plus VAT. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because he believed the regulatory fee cap applied. He 
recommended MCS cancel its invoice and issue a new one for 20% plus VAT of the 
settlement.
MCS disagreed with our investigators view. It said the fee cap doesnt apply to this type of 
claim. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant legislation says that claims management companies arent allowed to charge 
fees of more than 20% plus VAT of the amount recovered for the claimant in connection with 
a PPI claim. This legislation came into force on 10 July 2018.
MCS says that under a strict interpretation of section 29 (9) of the Financial Guidance and 
Claims Act the definition of a PPI claim may not be satisfied in this case. It says a Plevin 
case relates to the courts penalising the fact that an unfair relationship arose from the 
charging of commission, rather than penalising the fact that the commission related to the 
selling of PPI. 
The FGCA 2018 defines PPI Claim as a claim relating to the selling of payment protection 
insurance (whether it concerns amounts paid by the policyholder or otherwise).
The FCA published its final rules and guidance on payment protection insurance complaints 
in March 2017. This includes guidance for handling PPI complaints in light of the Plevin 
Supreme Court judgment. It refers to a two-step approach where step 1 is assessing the 
mis-selling of PPI and step 2 concerns undisclosed commission. In certain circumstances, 
lenders were required to move from step 1 to step 2 if they decided not to uphold a 
complaint at the first stage. 
Having considered MCSs comments, Im satisfied that Mr Ss complaint falls within the 
FGCAs definition of a PPI claim because it related to the selling of PPI, even if the lender 
had determined that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
MCS has also commented that the FGCA only applied to claims that utilised the PPI redress 
scheme and/or the Financial Ombudsman Service and not to claims made to the courts for 
an order under the Consumer Credit Act. But its also told us that Mr Ss claim wasnt taken 
to court as the lender upheld it. So, this comment doesnt make a difference to the 
conclusion Ive reached.
Given that Im satisfied that Mr Ss settlement is for a PPI claim, it follows that the fee cap 
applies. This means that MCS is only permitted to charge a success fee of 20% plus VAT.
Putting things right
MCS should reduce its fee to 20% plus VAT of the settlement Mr S received from the lender. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct MyClaimSolved Ltd to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman