DRN-3141555
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he held with ReAssure Limited. He 
is unhappy about the administration surrounding the maturity of the policy in late 2020. He 
was also unhappy with how his complaint was handled, as ReAssures complaint team didnt 
speak to him to clarify his complaint before providing its response.
What happened
Mr H held a mortgage endowment policy that matured on 22 November 2020. ReAssure 
sent him a maturity pack a month before the maturity date, explaining how to claim the 
maturity proceeds. Unfortunately, it appears Mr D didnt receive it and ReAssure had to send 
him a further copy after he contacted it on 5 November 2020. 
In the conversation Mr D had with ReAssure on 5 November 2020, it explained the 
timescales involved for processing the maturity. It was confirmed that the processing couldnt 
start until the maturity date. He was also told that it might take up to 15 working days for the 
money to reach his account.
The payment release form that Mr D completed was received by ReAssure on 10 November 
2020. 
The policy matured on 22 November 2020 and the maturity was processed on 6 December 
2020. Interest, less tax, was paid for the period between maturity and payment being made. 
On 25 November 2020 Mr D telephoned ReAssure again, as he had heard nothing since 
receiving the maturity pack the previous month. ReAssure confirmed when the payment 
release form had been received and that the maturity value would usually be paid within 15 
working days of the maturity date. However, it was explained that due to high volumes of 
requests being received at that time, it might be longer. Mr D wasnt happy that this might be 
the case and said he wanted to complaint. He also said that if he didnt receive the money 
within 15 working days, he would complain to this service. 
ReAssure offered to transfer him to its complaints team, but he declined due to the amount 
of time he anticipated being on hold before being able to speak to someone. He asked that 
someone call him back and was told this could be arranged and the call back would be 
within 72 hours. He didnt receive a call as promised. ReAssure simply responded in writing 
to what it understood Mr Ds complaint to be, two days later.
ReAssure set out that its understanding was that Mr D was unhappy with the 10 to 15 days it 
would take for him to receive the maturity proceeds. It explained that it had a service 
standard of up to 10 working days for a maturity to be processed. It confirmed that prior to 
the altered working practices and higher customer demands caused by the pandemic, the 
service standard had been five days. However, that had ceased to be possible and so it had 
changed its service standards to manage its customers expectations. ReAssure went on to 
confirm that the money would then be transferred to Mr Ds bank account through the 
banking system, which could take up to another five working days. 
Mr D wasnt happy with how ReAssure had dealt with his complaint and its conclusions, so 
he referred the complaint to this service. When he spoke to one of our investigators, Mr D 
also raised points about not being kept informed about the progress of the policy during the 
term and questioned why it had matured with a shortfall. In addition, he said that once the 
maturity proceeds had been paid, he hadnt been given a breakdown of how the maturity 
value had been calculated.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity and didnt fall within 
our remit, so he wouldnt be commenting on that issue. In relation to the timescales 
associated with the maturity, he was satisfied that the service standards werent 
unreasonable and that ReAssure met those standards. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that ReAssure hadnt sent the 
maturity pack to him when it said it had and that he had needed to call on numerous 
occasions to get it sent to him. He repeated that he hadnt been given a breakdown of how 
the maturity value had been calculated, as there were both with-profits and non with-profits 
elements to it, and he would like to see how well of badly it had performed. He highlighted 
that the policy had been sold to him on the basis that it would pay off his mortgage on the 
maturity date and questioned why this hadnt been understood. 
Our investigator confirmed that he was satisfied the maturity pack had been sent to Mr D 
when ReAssure said it was, but even if had not been, he pointed out that Mr D had received 
it by email weeks before the maturity. As Mr Ds further comments didnt persuade the 
investigator to change his conclusions, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Before considering the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that in order for a complaint 
to fall within our remit, the business it is against must have had the opportunity to respond to 
it. In addition, the complaint must be about an activity covered by this service. This means 
that the concerns Mr D raised with our investigator after the complaint was with us about not 
having been kept informed about the performance of the policy during its term, questions 
about why a shortfall had occurred and not being provided with a breakdown of the maturity 
value, would need to be raised with ReAssure before we could comment. 
I would also confirm that even where a complaint point has been raised with a business, we 
are only able to consider it if it relates to a regulated activity. As our investigator explained to 
Mr D, complaint handling is not such an activity and so his concern that ReAssure 
responded to his complaint without the complaint handler first speaking to him, is not 
something I will be commenting on in this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was told in early November 2020 that it was likely to be 10 to 15 working days for him 
to receive the money from the policy. He doesnt appear to have raised concerns about this 
timescale at that time. However, when ReAssure told him it might fail to meet that timescale, 
Mr D complained. 
While Mr Ds recent comments indicate that he originally thought that he would receive the 
maturity proceeds on the date of maturity, I would confirm that this would never have been 
the case. The maturity date is just that  the end point of the policy. At that point, assuming 
all the relevant forms and identification information had been received from Mr D, the policy 
provider would have always needed to complete administrative processes. Some of the information it would need to do so would not have been available to enable calculations and 
payment to be made on the day of maturity, even if Mr Ds policy was the only one it had to 
deal with at that time. 
In addition, providers will have numerous polices to process at any one time and so they 
have, and have always had, service standards setting out expected timescales for the 
administrative processes that would give a customer a reasonable idea about when they 
would receive their money. While a business has service standards, there might be times 
that they are not met. Failure to do so would not automatically mean the provider had done 
something wrong, as sometimes unforeseen events happen.
As ReAssure has explained, until 2020, its service standard for processing a maturity was 
five working days.  This was a fairly standard timescale across the industry. However, its 
said that due to the altered ways of working necessitated because of the pandemic, and the 
altered needs it was having to deal with from its customers, it needed to extend the 
timescale for administering a maturity to 10 working days. How a provider runs its business 
is a matter for the industry regulator, but setting realistic service standards in order to 
manage a customers expectations wasnt an unreasonable thing for ReAssure to have 
done.
ReAssure initially told Mr D that he should receive the money from his policy in 10 to 15 
working days. He hasnt said that he didnt receive it within that window of time and given 
when the processing occurred, it should have been received in time. I know that this will 
disappoint him, but I cant find that ReAssure did anything wrong when processing the 
maturity of his policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman