DRN-3175161
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss M says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Miss M took out an M&S charge card in 1994. That card switched to a credit card in 2003. 
PPI was sold to Miss M in 2005. 
Through her representatives, Miss M complained to M&S that it had mis-sold PPI. M&S 
didnt uphold the complaint about the alleged mis-sale. However, it did offer to pay back to 
Miss M some of her PPI premiums. Thats because it wasnt fair for M&S to fail to disclose a 
high level of commission and profit share it was going to receive from Miss Ms PPI 
premiums. 
Miss M did not agree with the way M&S proposed to resolve the complaint and she 
complained to this service. She filled out a PPI questionnaire at the same time in which she 
provided some details about her personal circumstances. However, when she filled out the 
questionnaire, Miss M told us about her circumstances in 2008  not 2005 when the cover 
was actually sold. Our adjudicator tried to clarify Miss Ms circumstances in 2005, but no 
substantive reply was received. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but thought M&Ss offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Miss M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided M&S should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that M&Ss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
Miss M said she couldnt remember how PPI had been sold to her. Looking at the records 
provided by M&S, I can see the cover was sold to her by telephone in 2005. I dont have a 
call recording of the sale. Thats not surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. I 
wouldnt expect either party to keep such a record indefinitely. But I do have a copy of a 
telephone script M&S says its representative would have used when PPI was sold to Miss 
M. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether M&S made it clear to Miss M that the PPI was 
optional, and that she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. As I said, I have a copy of 
the call script M&S used at the relevant time. I havent seen anything to suggest that script 
wasnt broadly followed when cover was sold to Miss M. With that in mind, I think PPI was 
most likely described as an optional product and that Miss Ms agreement would have been 
obtained before the cover was added to her account. I also note that the cover was sold to 
Miss M some years after she started using her account. So I think she would have known it 
wasnt a condition of the credit. 
M&S recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check the cover was right for her. To help 
me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions. 
And Ive also considered what we know about Miss Ms personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim, 15% of Miss Ms credit card balance would have 
been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim. Her balance would have also been repaid in the unfortunate event of her death. 
In the PPI questionnaire, Miss M told us that in 2008, shed have received less than three 
months sick pay from her employer if she was off sick. I have assumed that she would have 
received the same pay in 2005 when the cover was sold. Thats because in 2008, Miss M 
said shed been in her job for 15 years, so it seems unlikely to me that her sick pay 
entitlement would have reduced. Looking at all of this, I can see the PPI would have lasted 
for some while longer than her sick pay. 
Miss M told us she had some savings in 2008, worth around one month of her gross salary. 
Assuming her savings were the similar in 2005, the PPI would have also lasted for longer 
than those savings. I can see how PPI could have been helpful at what would have no doubt 
been a difficult time for Miss M if she was off sick or if she was made redundant. 
I understand Miss M was in good health when the PPI was sold. So I dont think shed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. There was nothing 
about Miss Ms employment or occupation which would have made it more difficult for her to successfully claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems. With all of these things in mind, I think the cover M&S recommended was 
most likely suitable for Miss Ms circumstances. 
Even so, M&S still had to give Miss M enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information M&S gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive 
found that she chose to take a policy out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to 
what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also 
looks like it was affordable. I can see how it could have been useful for her if she wasnt 
working. Because of this I dont think Miss M would have declined the cover even if M&S had 
given her more or better information about it. 
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the point of sale. I also think the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant M&S should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
general arguments dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided M&S should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that M&Ss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
M&S didnt tell Miss M about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. So taking into account: the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
M&S and Miss M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because M&S didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think M&S acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint, including 
representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: M&S failed to tell Miss M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Miss M wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had they known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Miss 
M should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiporder to remedy the unfairness caused by M&S not disclosing the high level of commission 
before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness. 
For the reasons given above, I am not, as the representative submits, driven to conclude 
that the policy wouldnt have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of 
commission. I think it was fair for M&S to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Miss M paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss M 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if M&S had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that M&Ss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As M&S has already paid Miss M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Marks & 
Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, should pay Miss M an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus 
associated interest where applicable). As I understand payment has already been made to 
Miss M on this basis, I do not require Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as 
M&S Bank, to take any further action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman