DRN-3970458
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited as he 
feels it delayed his claim and made mistakes in handling it, such that its claim settlement 
was too low to allow him to replace his car.
Mr B has been represented at times by his mother, Mrs B. But as this is Mr Bs complaint, in 
the main, for ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B had an accident in late April 2021, which was notified to Admiral in early May 2021. 
Admiral initially felt that the car was worth around £10,000  about the same as the likely 
cost of repairs. So it felt the car was a total loss (not economic to repair). Admiral said it 
would settle with Mr B for what it felt was the market value of the car (at the time of the 
accident), net some deductions. Around 26 May 2021, it paid him, across two payments, a 
total of £6,175.62 in settlement of the claim.
Mr B consulted an engineer. The engineer, whom Ill refer to as M, said the market value 
for the car had not been properly assessed, and that a fair market value for it was £27,500. 
Admiral agreed to review matters. It had its engineer, B, review the car again. B said it now 
felt the fair market value for the car was £20,000 and, in light of the likely repairs being 
expected to cost around £10,000, the car was no longer considered to be a total loss. So 
Admiral told Mr B, in a letter dated 22 July 2021 that it would settle with him for the likely cost 
of repairs  £10,167.54, less some deductions (including the sum it had already paid him). In 
that respect, on 4 August 2021, Admiral paid Mr B £3,335.94, and £44.46 in interest 
because this sum had not been paid to Mr B before. At this time Admiral also sent Mr B a 
compensation cheque for £225  this to reflect the upset it accepted its failures to that point 
had caused Mr B.
M replied to Admiral directly in August 2021. M said it still had concerns about how the 
market value had been determined by B and that Bs figure was still too low. M also said the 
cost for repairs was far too low. M had the repairs costed by a garage which showed theyd 
cost in the region of £30,000. Admiral appointed a further engineer, T to assess the car in 
light of Ms findings.
M reported that, following meeting a representative of T, it was agreed that the car had a 
likely market value of £27,500. However, Ts report, issued to Admiral at the end of 
September 2021 said the market value was likely £19,999.00 with a reasonable deduction 
from that of £1,999.90 needing to be made because the car, at the time of the crash, had no 
valid MOT. Regarding the repairs, T felt the previous estimate from Admirals garage was 
likely not reflective of the cost of work needed to repair Mr Bs car. T further felt the repairs 
would likely cost around £30,000. 
Admiral then reviewed all the reports from T and M, as well as Bs second report. In a letter 
dated 4 October 2021 Admiral said it would now, again, view the car as a total loss and look 
to settle the claim on the basis of the cars market value. In that respect Admiral said it would 
ignore Ts recommendations to deduct a sum in respect of there not being an MOT. Which 
meant that two engineers had determined the market value of the car to be £20,000, with M 
having said it was £27,500. So Admiral said it would look at an average of those three 
values  £22,500  on which to base its settlement to Mr B. It said that from that it would 
deduct what it had paid Mr B already, and the salvage cost of the car, as Mr B was keeping 
it. It said that left it with a total to pay Mr B of £8,732.64. This was paid by Admiral on 
4 October 2021, along with an interest payment of £211.30. 
Mr B remained unhappy and M replied to Admiral on his behalf. M said it had taken Admiral 
too long to come to this decision, and Mr B had incurred costs in the meantime. M said that 
the sums paid to date had not allowed Mr B to replace his car and without it hed sometimes 
had to hire a car, or borrow his mothers, along with paying for insurance to allow him to 
drive the same. M explained that Mr Bs car had also been used to take his household 
rubbish to a local refuse collection point and, without it, hed had to pay for his waste to be 
collected from his (rural) home. M detailed Mr Bs financial losses to date, including £1,400 
of charges by M. Making Mr Bs total losses around £6,000. And M explained that the cost of 
replacing the car had increased markedly in the interim too  with that now likely going to 
cost Mr B around £33,000. M also said that Mr B was looking for a payment of £1,500 in 
recognition of the inconvenience hed suffered. 
Admiral decided to make a further, limited time settlement offer to Mr B. In a letter 
of 26 November 2021, it said it would pay him £27,500 less payments to date totalling 
£19,380.94 (this sum including the interest and compensation payments), less the salvage 
sum of £3,599.82 and less the policy excess of £1,200. Mr B wasnt prepared to accept this 
offer, so no further payment was made to him.
When Mr B complained to us, our Investigator initially felt Admiral should make an additional 
payment to him based on the likely market value of the car being £27,500. Mr B didnt feel 
that resolved all his concerns, and Admiral was equally unhappy with the finding  but for 
different reasons. Upon reviewing further detail Admiral had provided, our Investigator felt 
the payments it had made in respect of settling the claim based on the cars likely market 
value had been fair and reasonable  so he wasnt minded to make it pay more for that. But 
he felt it should pay Mr B for reasonable hire costs incurred between 28 May 2021 and 
4 October 2021. As well as reimbursing Mr B any charge from M for providing its initial 
market value assessment  but not any further fees. Our Investigator also felt Admiral should 
pay Mr B a further £500 compensation. 
Admiral didnt respond. Mr B said he was unhappy with the findings. So the complaint was 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt the fair and reasonable market value 
was £27,500, meaning Admiral owed Mr B £3,000, plus interest*. I also felt a further £500 
compensation, along with reimbursement of Ms fees for the June 2021 and August 2021 
reports, should be paid. But I wasnt minded to award Mr B any costs for insurance, the hire 
car or rubbish clearance. My provisional findings were:
Market value
Mr Bs policy entitles him to fair and reasonable market value for his car if it is declared a 
total loss. And that is the value as was at the date of the loss. Generally claims are settled 
swiftly such that prices dont markedly change. And if there is some change and theres been 
some delay, any change is often covered by a payment of interest from the insurer. 
This service often finds it fair and reasonable to rely on trade guides to assess the market 
value of a car. But we also acknowledge that, occasionally, for certain vehicles, at certain 
times, the guides are not reliable sources for market values. I think that is the case here. And 
I think Admiral should have known from the outset that in the current market, ascertaining a fair and reasonable market value for Mr Bs vehicle would entail more than just a standard 
valuation based on the trade guides. Certainly T commented in its report on this very fact. 
I note though that as the claim moved on, Admiral discounted Bs original assessment of 
value (based on the trade guides alone). It also chose not to apply any deduction for the 
cars MOT having expired. T had recommended a 10% deduction in that respect. And, on 
occasion, the lack of an MOT will affect the saleability and, therefore, market value of a car. 
But this service, where a deduction is applied, would expect that to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of that claim. Given the high-demand and nature of Mr Bs car (cars of 
this type are often used for off-road activity), I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when 
it chose not to apply Ts recommended deduction.
Ts value without deduction was £19,999, Bs revised value was £20,000 and M said the 
market value for Mr Bs car was £27,500. So Ive considered the reports that were issued 
when detailing these values  to see if I find any one of them is most persuasive, or if they all 
hold equal merit. Only if I felt that they all had equal merit would it be fair and reasonable to 
use an average of the three values returned upon which to base settlement to Mr B  which 
is what Admiral did.
Having considered them all, I dont think they do hold equal merit. Indeed I find the report 
from M is most persuasive. Bs report to support its revised figure says that internet research 
was completed to reach a value of £20,000. But no explanation is given of that research, and 
no evidence in support of it was included. Ts report is similar. Ts report explains that it 
initially felt £27,500 (as put forward already at that time by M) was a fair value  and I think 
this reflects Ms account of having met with T and T being in agreement as to Ms valuation. 
But Ts report continues to explain that, upon review, and taking into account internet 
research into values  no detail or evidence of which is explained or given in the report  a 
value of £19,999 is felt to be fair. Thats a big difference with no evidence or even reasoning 
to support it. In contrast Ms report, which I believe T had seen, set out why it was felt a 
value of £27,500 was fair and reasonable, and included evidence in support of that finding. 
So I think Admiral acted unfairly and unreasonably when it factored in the values returned by 
B and T alongside that given by M, using an average of all three on which to base its 
settlement for Mr Bs claim. I think the fair and reasonable market value is £27,500.
T has recently provided further comment on that value. It has sought to argue that because 
one sales advert for a car similar to Mr Bs, but with less mileage, was for a value of only 
£23,000, that shows that a market value for Mr Bs car of £27,500 is not fair and reasonable. 
Im not persuaded though that evidence of one advert alone sufficiently disproves the 
considered and supported expert valuation M initially gave  and which T had the 
opportunity to fully contest, with supporting evidence and reasoning, in its report, had it 
wanted to do so. But, as Ive said, Ts report was not persuasive. So I remain of the view, 
based on the evidence available, that £27,500 is a fair and reasonable market value for 
Mr Bs car. Given the delay, interest should be added to this sum, but Ill explain what I think 
Admiral should now pay further on in my decision. Essentially there have been some 
previous payments made by Admiral, along with some other necessary deductions (the 
policy excess and salvage  because Mr B kept the car), which I need to take into account. 
The cost of replacing the car today
 
Mr B has argued that during the delay in the claim being fairly and reasonably settled, his 
type of car has appreciated in value so much that even adding interest to the market value 
sum will not give him enough to buy a replacement. M, in November 2021 said the price for 
this type of vehicle, similar to Mr Bs, had increased to £32,000  £35,000. But unlike Ms 
previous reports, this figure wasnt supported with reasoning and evidence. I have seen some adverts attached to an email dated November 2021, from Mr B to Admiral. 
But Im not sure these were adverts compiled or relied upon by M when saying replacement 
would cost £32,000  £35,000. I say that as of the six advertised cars, only two had an 
asking price of over £30,000. Four of the cars advertised were for sale for less than £30,000, 
and whilst only two adverts included the mileage of the car for sale  those two were less 
than Mr Bs cars mileage.  
In July 2022 M told our Investigator that the then current price for replacing Mr Bs car was 
£29,000  £31,000. But no reasoning or evidence was given in support.
I bear in mind that as of the date of this decision, another six months or so have passed. But 
I have conducted a search of the internet to take a view for myself of the likely replacement 
prices for Mr Bs car. As I expected the type, condition and mileage for vehicles for sale 
varies quite a lot, as does the price attached to them. My search has not been exhaustive 
and Im not an engineer so my appraisal of the cars currently for sale has looked very 
broadly to compare some key factors such as make and model, year and mileage. What is 
most of note to me in what Ive seen is that whilst there are some for sale at around £30,000, 
many of those are cars younger than Mr Bs, and which have done much less mileage. But, 
further, that cars which are also younger than Mr Bs, and which have also done less 
mileage, are on sale for less than £27,500. So Im not persuaded that Admirals delays in 
settling this claim have caused the market value, which Im satisfied is fairly and reasonably 
due in settlement of the claim, to be unreasonably out of line with the cost Mr B will face 
when replacing his car in todays market. So I dont intend to apply any uplift to the market 
value of £27,500.
What I think Admiral should pay in settlement to Mr B
Im satisfied that the fair and reasonable market value is £27,500, and that it would not be 
fair or reasonable to apply any uplift to that sum. So that is the starting figure from which Ill 
work out the final settlement.
To date, in respect of the market value for the car, not taking into account compensation and 
interest payments, Admiral has paid Mr B £18,900 (£18,900.18 to be exact  but Im 
rounding it down for ease of calculations). That was not net of any excess sum. Mr Bs 
excess is £1,200  and this sum was taken into account when Admiral made its first 
payment to Mr B in May 2021. However, when Admiral made subsequent payments, it just 
paid Mr B the difference between that paid previously and that felt now due. Which meant 
the excess deduction was effectively overridden. So I need to take the sums of £18,900 and 
£1,200 from that of £27,500. That leaves £7,400.
As Mr B was keeping the car, Admiral was entitled to keep an amount of the settlement due 
in salvage. In other words if Admiral had taken ownership of the car following its loss, it 
would have been able to sell it on, in its damaged state and, therefore, obtained some 
money for it. It isnt unusual in the industry for insurers to often gain 20% of the ascribed 
market value for a car from their salvage agents. And 20% is exactly the figure Admiral used 
here  or rather it was the percentage T applied to its recommended adjusted settlement 
figure of £17,999.10. This netted Ts salvage figure of £3,599.82. Admiral then applied this 
figure to its settlement detailed in its October 2021 letter. But that settlement was based on 
Admirals averaged value of £22,500. That then shows to me that Admiral was happy, on 
this occasion, to settle at a rate for salvage of 16% of the market value. I think that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 16% of £27,500 is £4,400. Ill deduct that from the value 
reached in my above paragraph (£7,400), which leaves Admiral with £3,000 to pay Mr B.  
To the sum of £3,000, interest* will have to be applied. This from the date of loss until the 
date settlement is made.Claim handling and delay
Ive referenced above that Admiral has delayed this claim. Clearly, given what Ive said here 
about the fair and reasonable market value, Admiral had not settled the claim fairly. But its 
final payment to the value it felt was fair was paid in October 2021. And as my background 
shows the claim journey to that point was not straight forward. Ive commented above 
regarding Admiral not using a fair and reasoble method of valuation in the first instance. But 
even before that I think Admiral failed Mr B.   
Mr Bs car sustained some significant damage  the collision was with a large heavy animal. 
But seemingly neither Admiral nor its garage visually inspected the car to determine the 
likely repair costs  the estimate was done based on photos alone. When M had the car 
assessed the necessary repairs were said to be about three times more expensive than 
Admirals initial estimate  and that price was later verified by T. It isnt always necessary for  
a car to be inspected for experts to assess its likely repair cost  but given the nature of the 
accident and the damage visible in the photos, I think that using the photos alone as a basis 
for determining what repairs would be needed, and their cost, was flawed. And that, along 
with the flawed market valuation method Ive detailed above, caused the initial claim 
settlement offers to be unfair and unreasonable.
Not only did that cause delays to the claim, but it also meant Mr B had to go to more trouble, 
spending time and energy to challenge Admiral. I think it should pay Mr B £500 in addition to 
previous compensation paid (£225) to fairly and reasonably make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failings.
Financial loss
Mr B has reported that he has incurred costs as a result of Admirals failings. So Ive 
considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to reimburse him anything.
Expert costs
M has provided two reports for Mr B  one in June 2021 and one in August 2021. They were 
in respect of the market value for the car but also regarding the likely cost of repairs. Im 
satisfied that these expert reports have influenced the outcome of the claim and complaint. 
I think Admiral should reimburse Mr B for any costs charged by M in respect of these two 
reports. But I cant make exact money awards here because, to date, Ive not seen evidence 
of the cost of these two reports. 
M, in November 2021, said the cost for its work to date was £1,400. But at that time M had 
also written a further letter to Admiral. The content of that letter was really an objection to the 
claim settlement as it stood. So it was, in my view, more an attempt by M to assist Mr B in 
satisfactory settlement of his claim, rather than M providing its expert view on factors of the 
claim which reasonably required that type of input. That type of claim handling cost is not 
something I would usually make an insurer reimburse. And Im not persuaded that the 
November letter, or any further correspondence from M has materially changed the course 
of the claim or complaint either. So Im not going to make Admiral pay Mr B for any costs 
charged by M, except in respect of the two reports Ive detailed above. 
If Mr B shows the cost for those two reports to Admiral, it will have to pay those costs to 
Mr B, plus interest*. Interest should be applied on the sums paid to M, for these reports, from 
the date of payment until Admiral settles those costs. But Mr B will have to present that 
evidence in good time. If it has not been sent to Admiral within 14 days of the date we tell it 
Mr B accepts my final decision if he does, then any interest applicable to any monies later paid should be applied from the date of payment until the end of that 14-day period, then 
from the date the proof is received by Admiral and until it pays the sums due to Mr B. 
Car insurance
Mr B said he borrowed his mothers car because until Admiral satisfactorily settled his claim, 
he was without a vehicle. Mr B said he had had to pay for temporary insurance to use his 
mothers car. But Im not persuaded, from the evidence Ive seen, that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to make Admiral pay Mr B anything in this respect. 
It seems to me that regardless of the accident and Mr B not being able to use his car, he had 
a pre-existing, longstanding arrangement with his mother to use her car. I say that because 
the insurance documents Mr B provided to us show that he was taking temporary insurance 
out for his mothers car throughout most of the period from July 2020 to December 2020, 
and then also for a few days in March 2021 and April 2021, before the incident occurred. In 
light of that I simply cant be satisfied that Mr Bs use of his mothers car, and the resultant 
need for insurance to be able to do so, at the end of April 2021 and beyond, came from him 
not having his car after the incident and because of Admirals delays in providing a fair and 
reasonable settlement for the claim.
Hire car and rubbish clearance
Whilst M suggested Mr B had hired a car, Im satisfied that is not the case. Rather, at times 
whilst Mr B was using his mothers car, his mother hired a car for her own and her 
daughters use, and Mr B expects to have to pay her back for this. And Mr Bs mother also 
paid to have their rubbish bins at their home collected  whereas previously Mr B would 
have used his car to move them to a local collection point. That couldnt be done with Mr Bs 
mothers car or the hire cars. Mr B also expects to have to pay his mother for that. He thinks, 
therefore, that Admiral should cover both costs. With regret for any disappointment this 
causes Mr B, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Admiral to make any payment to 
him in these respects. 
Clearly, looking at the insurance documents provided, and as discussed in the previous 
section, Mr B had a prior, long-standing habit of using his mothers car. So it seems she 
might well have been without a car on those occasions too. I think it stands to reason that 
with the use of her car being previous and longstanding, it was just as likely that she was in 
the habit of a hiring a car previously too. So, as with the insurance costs, Im not persuaded 
that the hire costs were only incurred because of Mr Bs loss of use of his own car and 
Admirals delays. 
But, in terms of both of the hire and rubbish clearance costs, I think they are losses which 
are too far removed from the contract between Mr B and Admiral for me to think making 
Admiral liable for them is fair and reasonable. Essentially they were costs incurred by a 
non-contracting party to Admiral and Mr Bs insurer/policyholder relationship. And I dont 
think either was a reasonably foreseeable loss likely to result from Admirals failures. So 
I dont intend to require Admiral to make any payment in respect of these items.  
Admiral said it agreed with my awards, with one exception. It said it would only pay interest 
on the increased settlement sum of £3,000 from 25 May 2021, when it had made its first 
claim settlement payment to Mr B.
Mr B said that Admirals engagement over vehicle values was prolonged and, 
disappointingly, seemingly seen by it as an opportunity to haggle to his disadvantage. 
Significant inconvenience was caused as a result. He was reassured that the provisional 
findings had recognised this.Mr B disagreed that interest, in this case, would make up for any disparity in replacement 
costs from the market value caused by volatility in the market. He asked to see detail of the 
internet research I had referenced when considering whether an uplift to the market value 
should be applied.
Regarding the reports, Mr B said there was a cost in addition to the cost of the reports for his 
research and the like. Hed like me to confirm that all costs will be seen as expert costs 
which Admiral will have to reimburse. He asked to see copies of the reports.
In respect of car insurance and hire costs, Mr B said he had used his mothers car before but 
only during the course of a certain employment. This wasnt regular use and on the odd 
occasions when it occurred, his mother would just arrange her diary so she did not need her 
car/a car that day. He said further detail could be provided in this respect if required. He 
noted though that, in the circumstances here, Admiral had reduced their two-car household 
to one car, for a prolonged period and they all needed transport.
Turning to rubbish clearance Mr B explained that his home is situated at the end of a track, 
half a mile from the road and rubbish collection point. Mr B had taken the rubbish before but 
couldnt during the unreasonably prolonged claim as he did not have a suitable vehicle  so 
it stands to reason, Mr B thinks, that the cost incurred (by his mother) to resolve this, 
reasonably lies with Admiral.
Upon reviewing the parties responses to my provisional decision, I noted Mr Bs request to 
see the internet detail and copy reports. I contacted Mr B via our Investigator, further details 
were sent to him and I said:
I note your request for sight of Ms reports from November 2021 and July 2022. But I think 
you have seen these before  you sent the November report to Admiral and M sent a copy of 
his June report to yourself. For your ease of reference though, our Investigator will forward 
copies to you. 
I will also ask our Investigator to send you some internet detail of for sale vehicles. My 
provisional decision explained Id completed an assessment to satisfy myself as to likely sale 
prices for vehicles similar to that insured. Unfortunately, a technical difficulty means that 
exact detail is not available. But I have reviewed my findings again today, and checked sales 
detail, which I can share with you. I remain satisfied, at this stage, by what I said 
provisionally. 
I gave Mr B an opportunity to provide any further evidence or comment in reply to my 
findings. No further response was received.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral is aware that where an insurer delays a claim that this service will often award 
interest on any claim settlement award from the date of loss. Admiral hasnt provided any 
compelling reason for taking a different approach here.
I note that Mr B disagrees that interest sufficiently makes up for a short-fall between the 
market value for his car and sale prices. But I also note that Mr B has provided nothing in 
reply to show that, to replace his car, he will have to pay substantially more than the market 
value I have found is fairly and reasonably due to apply to his claim of £27,500.If Mr B had a cost to himself in spending time completing research, perhaps in finding his 
expert, then that is not the same thing as him incurring the cost of an expert to provide 
expert advice. Mr B is compensated for his inconvenience, but with an expert involved, who 
clearly undertook to assist in handling the claim for Mr B too, I dont think making a further 
award of costs to Mr B would be fair or reasonable here. However, if the expert billed part of 
his time for research and part for writing the resultant reports, then both of those are the cost 
of employing an expert to provide expert advice. I remain of the view that Admiral should 
reimburse Mr B any costs charged by M for completing his reports dated June 2021 and 
August 2021. Mr B will have to provide it proof of these costs.
The details Mr B provided about insurance cover he had purchased for him to drive his 
mothers car showed he took cover at least for a few days each month from July 2020 
through December 2020. Some periods of cover were longer than a few days, such as a 
fortnight in July 2020 and eight days over the course of two weeks in September 2020. And 
into 2021, even before Mr B had the incident in April which led to the claim, he had taken 
insurance on his mothers car for a whole month. Im not persuaded that Admirals failures, 
whilst they undoubtedly meant Mr B was without his car, caused the need for him to use his 
mothers car where he otherwise would not have done so.  
I appreciate that Mr B is part of a household. But Admiral does not insure the household. 
Admiral has liability to Mr B as its policyholder. And when it fails him it has to make up for 
that, including by compensating him for reasonably foreseeable losses caused to him as a 
result of its failures. I remain satisfied by what I said in this respect in my provisional decision 
and Mr Bs response hasnt caused me to change my view.
Having reviewed the parties responses to my provisional decision, I find Ive not been 
persuaded to change my view from that set out provisionally. As such my provisional 
findings are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
View the market value for Mr Bs car as £27,500.
Pay Mr B £3,000 as an outstanding sum left to be paid against the market value, with 
previous payments, the policy excess and salvage having been accounted for.
Calculate and pay to Mr B interest* on the £3,000 payment, applied from the date of loss 
until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B a further £500 compensation  where £225 has been paid already, making the 
total compensation award £725. 
Upon receipt of proof of Ms charges for the June 2021 and August 2021 reports, and 
payment of the same being made, make a payment in-line with those to Mr B.
Add interest* to any of Ms charges being paid to Mr B. If Mr B takes more than 14 days 
after he accepts my final decision (if it remains the same and he does) to provide the 
proof of Ms charges and payment for them to Admiral, then the application of interest will 
cease temporarily at the end of that 14 day period, resuming again once Admiral 
receives the proof, ceasing finally when payment is made (if a payment is felt to be due).
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman