DRN-4225908
The complaint
Mr R complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr R has a motor insurance policy with esure. In June 2020 esure was contacted by a third 
party who alleged Mr Rs car had collided their vehicle.
esure sent Mr R an email and a letter telling him that he had five days to contact it, or it 
would handle, and pay, the claim.
Mr R denies receiving the letter. He also said esure used an out-of-date email address to 
contact him, so he didnt receive it.
Because esure didnt hear from Mr R, it recorded the claim on its system and an external 
database as being his fault.
Mr R found that when he tried to get cover elsewhere, his premium had increased because 
of the recorded claim. He complained to esure because he didnt know about it.
esure said it had acted fairly and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr R brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. He said that esure couldnt 
definitively show that it had sent out the notification of the collision to Mr R, so he thought 
esure should have done more to contact Mr R about the collision. He said esure should 
change the record of Mr Rs claim to show he wasnt at fault and it should alter the external 
database to match.
esure didnt agree with the view. It said it had used Mr Rs contact details about two months 
after the collision and hed responded within one day, which meant that the email address Mr 
R had given them was correct. It said it had to deal with the claim made by the third party 
because Mr R hadnt supplied it with any information to defend it, so it didnt think it was fair 
to ask it to change the liability on the claim.
Because esure didnt agree with the view, this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Rs complaint, which is below:
Im not intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him.
Ive looked at esures policy wording which talks about how it will handle claims. I can see 
this section:
Claims Procedure
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which 
may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own 
benefit. You and anyone covered by the policy must provide all the information, 
documentation and help we need to do this.
Ive not been provided with details of exactly what happened in the alleged incident, but I 
understand that Mr R was alleged to have left a note on a third partys vehicle taking 
responsibility for some damage and supplying his name and address.
I can see that the third party contacted esure and made a claim. Ive not seen esures claims 
notes about this incident, but I can see that it contacted Mr R using two other methods.
esure didnt have his phone number, so it sent a letter and an email.
Ive said above that Mr R denied receiving the letter, and he said the email address was an 
old one. esure has sent this service details of the email addresses, and when they were 
updated, and I can see that it sent the email to the email address that was active on its 
system at the time.
esure has also said it sent another email to this same address following notification of 
another claim involving Mr R, and it received a reply within a day. This correspondence took 
place about two months after the incident described above, but Ive not seen evidence of 
this.
Ultimately, because esure didnt hear back from Mr R, it didnt have any evidence to 
challenge the third partys allegations. In these situations, esure would use its rights to take 
over the claim and settle it with the third party. The ability to do this is common in the 
insurance marketplace and I think esure has acted fairly in doing this.
Mr R maintains that he didnt receive any information from esure about the claim. This 
service considers it best practice to send important information by at least two different 
methods and I can see from esures evidence that it did so.
Ive considered Mr Rs comments about esure contacting him by phone, but Ive not seen 
evidence that it did. And I can see that esure didnt have his phone number on its system 
until the following year.
Ive also looked at Mr Rs contention that his email address was an old one. I cant fairly say 
esure has been at fault for using the email address Mr R provided it with. Its Mr Rs 
responsibility for keeping esure updated with his correct contact details.
Taking everything into account, I think esure did reasonably try to make contact with Mr R 
about the incident. But because it didnt hear back from Mr R, it was in a position where it 
had to deal with the third party claim. I dont think esure acted unfairly in what it did, so I 
dont propose to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R responded and didnt agree with my provisional decision. He says esure didnt contact 
him by email, letter or phone and he asks what proof esure has that it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Mr Rs position as I know my decision will be a great disappointment to 
him. 
As I said in my provisional decision, its Mr Rs responsibility to keep esure updated with his 
contact details. Ive looked at the evidence from esure about the letter, and when Mr R 
updated his email address with it, and Im satisfied that esure did reasonably send 
information to him about the third-party claim. 
As Mr R hasnt provided me with any further evidence to consider, my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman