DRN-3242152
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him mis-leading advice 
and his loan is now being handled by a debt collector.
What happened
Mr D had a £10,000 loan with NatWest, but in November 2019 his circumstances changed 
which meant hed difficulty in maintaining the repayments. Mr D told NatWest his 
employment had changed from full time hours to a zero hours contract. Mr D said NatWest 
told him to default the account and while this would be shown on his credit file for six years, 
he wouldnt have to repay the loan.
Mr D said he took this advice and the loan was defaulted, but instead of being written off he 
has been contacted by debt collectors. He complained to NatWest.
NatWest said they couldnt find any evidence of Mr D being told the loan would be written off 
after six years. But they apologised to Mr D if this information had been given to him. They 
said they would provide feedback and training. 
Mr D wasnt happy with NatWests response he referred his complaint to us.
NatWest offered Mr D £250 in full and final settlement of his complaint. But Mr D didnt 
accept the offer as he said he would have set up a payment plan to have prevented the 
default if hed been given the right advice.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that Mr D had been told the loan would be 
written off after six years. And given Mr Ds income and expenditure it was more likely the 
account would have defaulted. 
Mr D didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration as this must be a difficult time for him. And thinking he 
would no longer have to pay this debt only to have the debt put into the hands of debt 
collectors must have been upsetting. Where there is a different version of events as is the 
case here. I will base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
When NatWest was told of the change in Mr Ds financial situation, Id expect them to treat 
Mr D positively and sympathetically as he was experiencing financial difficulty. But that didnt 
mean theyd to refund or stop interest and charges for the loan. And if contractual payments 
werent being made, they were entitled to consider defaulting the account and to take
debt recovery action.
Mr D said he was told by NatWest, that if he let the account default while it would be 
registered on his credit file for six years he wouldnt have to pay the loan. When a consumer 
is in financial difficulty the relevant guidance says that lenders should act with forbearance 
and due consideration. And gives examples of ways lenders can do this such as amongst 
others, deferring arrears, suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
and/or accepting token payments.
In November 2019, NatWests records show Mr D told them his employment situation had 
changed. And that he was looking to default the account. The records say Mr D was told 
they would place a 30 day hold on the account to see if his circumstances changed. And if 
they didnt a recoveries plan would be looked at. His income and expenditure was also 
discussed and it was seen that he didnt have any disposable income. I can see that after 
paying his outgoings Mr D had a deficit each month of around £82. There is also a note 
about considering a token payment.
Sometimes a consumer will only be able to make token repayments towards a debt as they 
dont have any or little disposable income, for example a token £1 per month payment. While 
lenders will accept a token payment this isnt usually considered a payment arrangement.  
And in this situation the lender would continue with their usual collections and recoveries 
process and treat the account in default if it is sufficiently in arrears. 
Id expect an account to be defaulted when a consumer is at least three months behind and 
no later than six months behind with their payments. And its clear from both Mr Ds 
testimony and NatWests records that Mr D couldnt make any payment towards the loan 
other than potentially a token one, as he didnt have any disposable income.
I can see that NatWest looked to help Mr D when his circumstances changed. They 
considered a payment plan, arranged for him to have a basic bank account to help him 
manage his finances. And that when he was behind with his payments the account was 
defaulted to prevent any further interest and charges. So, Im satisfied that NatWest 
responded positively and sympathetically to him.
I know Mr D wants NatWest to clear his outstanding account balance as he said this is what 
he was told would happen. But I dont think thats something we can fairly or reasonably 
expect NatWest to do. Its reasonable for them to expect repayment of the money Mr D 
borrowed and owed. 
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr D was told NatWest wouldnt pursue the debt. But 
NatWest has offered Mr D £250 as they arent going to dispute his understanding of a 
conversation, hed with them.  As I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
their actions with Mr D its for him to decide whether he wants to accept this offer.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman