DRN-3127418
The complaint
Mr P complains that although he was invited to apply for a credit card by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, it then turned him down. Mr P said credit searches done by Barclays had damaged his 
credit file. He wanted it to pay compensation, and give him the card it had promised him.
What happened
Mr P said that in February 2020, Barclays asked him to apply for a credit card. But then it 
refused to accept his application. Mr P said that Barclays continued to do credit checks after 
his application had been turned down, which damaged his credit file. 
Mr P said he was then asked to apply again for the card, and told he had a high chance of 
success, but then was turned down again. 
Mr P said he had an excellent credit score, and he felt that Barclays was just playing games 
and trying to damage his credit file. He wanted Barclays to pay £250 in compensation, and 
to give him the credit card it originally promised.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr P had only applied with it directly 
once, on 8 March 2020. This application had generated a credit search which was marked 
on his credit file, and would be visible to other lenders if he applied for credit elsewhere. 
Barclays said it could see three other applications, from 16 February, 7 March, and 2 April 
2020, but none of these had been done directly with it. Those applications were done 
through a comparison website. They generated soft searches. Those were visible to Mr P 
when he looked at his credit file  they have to be visible to him, thats a legal requirement. 
But they werent visible to other lenders, so they wouldnt affect future credit applications.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it seemed likely that 
the comparison site had rated Mr Ps chances of success with an application for a Barclays 
credit card, rather than this information coming direct from Barclays. So Barclays wouldnt be 
responsible for that. 
He said that when Mr P applied directly to Barclays, a hard credit search would be done. Our 
investigator said he wouldnt ask Barclays to remove a credit search which was an accurate 
reflection of an application it had received. And it was up to Barclays to decide who it wanted 
to provide credit to, so our service wouldnt make Barclays offer Mr P a card. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly here or made a mistake 
searching Mr Ps credit file. So he didnt think it had to do any more. 
Mr P showed us that his credit score was very high, so he said that Barclays cant have 
made its decision on the basis of a credit score. Mr P said his relationship with Barclays was 
poor, he didnt really use the account he had with it. He said that he accepted Barclays didnt 
have to give him a credit card. But he didnt see any point in Barclays doing a credit search if 
it didnt take any notice of the score and details of the report. 
Mr P said that Barclays had also done credit searches more recently, and he wanted us to 
tell it to stop doing those. 
Mr P then wrote again, with evidence of soft searches done in August 2021. Our investigator 
said that these were only visible to him, and suggested he speak with Barclays to confirm 
exactly what they were for. He confirmed that wed look into the four searches that formed 
Mr Ps original complaint. And, because no agreement had been reached, this case was 
then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr P has expressed concern that Barclays invited him to apply for a credit card, then turned 
him down. But it looks as if only one of the applications that Mr P made was made directly to 
Barclays. It appears as if Mr P may have been getting information on his chances of success 
on a credit application from a comparison website. And, as our investigator said, Barclays 
wouldnt be responsible for that.
Barclays is responsible for the decisions it makes on lending. But, broadly speaking, its also 
allowed to make its own decisions about who it wants to lend to. 
Whilst our service will sometimes tell banks that we dont think they should have lent money 
to someone (if, for example, we dont think the person can afford that lending) we wouldnt 
usually tell a bank that it should lend money to someone, if its decided not to do so. We 
would generally say that, as long as the relevant lending isnt irresponsible or unaffordable, 
then its for banks to assess for themselves, in each case, if they want to lend to someone. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest to me that we ought to depart from this usual 
approach in this case. So I dont think that Barclays has to give Mr P the card he wanted. 
Lenders will usually do a credit search before they make a decision on lending. And Barclays 
has marked one hard search on Mr Ps credit file. I know that Mr P doesnt think that 
Barclays is paying any attention to his credit file, so he thinks these searches are pointless. 
He has shown us that he has a high credit score. 
Credit reference agencies provide a credit score as a shorthand way of summing up 
information on a credit file for consumers, when we look at our own credit files. But banks 
dont make their decisions based on someones credit score. They look at the information 
which lies behind that score, the detail of whats on someones file, and they make their own 
assessment based on that. 
Barclays has shown us that it did look at the detail of whats on Mr Ps file, so I do think thats 
what Barclays has done here. And I dont think its been unfair or unreasonable. I also think 
that the one hard search that Barclays has done, the only search which will be visible to 
other lenders, is a fair reflection of the application Mr P made to Barclays. So I dont think it 
has to remove this search.
I know that Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman