DRN-3806339
The complaint
Mr T complains that bank accounts he held with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) were not closed in 2016 when he was told they would be, and he has not received 
enough compensation for the error.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that several bank accounts he held with Halifax were not closed in 2016 when he 
was told they would be, and he only found this out in 2022. He says this affected his credit 
status adversely in the intervening period and Halifax has not offered him enough 
compensation for its error.
Halifax says that it should have closed Mr Ts accounts in 2016 and not doing so was an 
error for which it has offered him £36 compensation. Halifax says that its records show there 
was no adverse status on his credit records related to the accounts from 2016 to 2022.
Both parties agree that Halifax should have closed Mr Ts accounts in 2016 but didnt do so 
until 2022.
Halifax provided evidence through an Experian report that there was no adverse credit 
information recorded against any of the accounts involved over the relevant period.
Our investigator asked Mr T to provide his evidence that his credit status had been affected 
by the non-closure of the accounts. Mr T says that he told other credit suppliers that the 
accounts were closed when they werent, and he is concerned that wouldve affected their 
view of him. And he sent photos of his online credit status.
I can only base my decision on the evidence available. The credit records provided by both 
Halifax and Mr T dont indicate any adverse credit status against the accounts involved. And 
I think its unlikely any lender wouldve been put off significantly by the fact that the accounts 
were still open when he said he thought they werent. I say this because while the accounts 
may have showed on any searches, they wouldnt have shown any adverse information 
about his conduct as a borrower, which is what lenders tend to focus on.
It would have been surprising and disappointing for Mr T to discover that his accounts hadnt 
been closed when he thought they were. For this Halifaxs offer of £36 is in line with the 
redress this service would give in these circumstances for the error of failing to close bank 
accounts when it said it would. 
But without any evidence to show that Halifaxs error in reporting these accounts has had 
any impact beyond the surprise and inconvenience of Mr T discovering this, I cant say it 
should do anymore here.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £36 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr T £36.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman