DRN-2439396
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M have complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down their 
business interruption insurance claim, after they were forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr and Mrs M, directors of M, have complained on Ms behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to HDI will include its agent. 
What happened
M holds a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. Mr and Mrs M wanted to claim on 
Ms policy after M was required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19. However, HDI said there wasnt any cover for the closure under their policy. 
HDI said that, under Ms policy, M would only be covered if theyd closed due to an outbreak 
of Covid-19 at their premises. HDI said the policy wouldnt provide cover for Ms business 
interruption if it was due to the national coronavirus crisis, rather than an outbreak at the 
premises. As M has closed as a result of a Government Act in response to the national 
pandemic, HDI turned down Ms claim.
As Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with HDIs response, they brought Ms complaint to our 
service. They said their broker had, at first, assured them they were covered, but HDI then 
refused to pay their claim. They said their MP had raised the issue in the House of 
Commons. 
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
HDI had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He thought 
the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if M had closed due to there being a 
case at the premises. He found the reason M closed was because of the Government Act in 
response to the national pandemic.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact the pandemic and the Governments related actions have 
had on M. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ms claim.
There is an extension to the policy with the heading Premises Closure or Restrictions. The 
relevant part of the extension covers loss resulting from interruption or interference with the 
business in consequence of:
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as: 
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease, as defined by the policy. But I dont think this 
extension covers Ms claim. I say that because the policy requires the closure or restrictions 
placed on Ms premises to have been as a consequence of the disease occurring at the 
premises. 
In an email to HDI on 9 April 2020 Mr and Mrs M said theyd both experienced symptoms of 
Covid-19. Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs M were unwell, but by that date M had already 
been required to close. Mr and Mrs M havent indicated that M closed following someone at 
the premises being unwell, but instead that they closed between 23 March 2020 and 4 July 
2020 due to the requirements of the Government Act. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M. But having considered this 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask HDI to pay the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman