DRN-4183214
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (BMW) terminated the hire purchase agreement he had with them and refused to 
accept his offer to clear his arrears.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. He paid an advance payment of £2,000 and the agreement was for £18,350 over 
48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £284.54 and an optional final payment of £9,145. 
Mr Ss income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and BMW agreed a 
payment deferral. The payments were due to start again in September 2020, but Mr S had 
cancelled the direct debit, so no payments were made. Mr S wrote to BMW in January 2022, 
explaining that hed not been financially able to make payments to the account previously. 
He then paid them an initial payment of £500, followed by payments of £400 a month.
BMW had offered to arrange a payment plan with Mr S in both February 2021 and February 
2022, but nothing was put in place. They also provided him with his options to exit the 
agreement. Mr S completed an income and expenditure form in July 2022, which showed 
that his outgoings exceeded his income, so BMW were unable to put any arrangement in 
place to clear the arrears.
On 18 August 2022, BMW sent Mr S a default notice explaining his account was in arrears 
and asking him to take action to repay these by no later than 7 September 2022. And, if he 
didnt, BMW could terminate the agreement and repossess the car.
Mr S didnt take any action following the default notice, despite BMWs attempts to contact 
him to discuss the situation. So, on 15 September 2022, BMW wrote to him to tell him they 
were terminating the agreement and would be looking to repossess the car. On termination, 
his arrears stood at £4,023.26  equivalent to around 14 months payments.
On 11 October 2022, Mr S said hed sold a property and offered to clear the arrears. BMW, 
as a gesture of goodwill, said if he settled the agreement in full, they would remove the 
default from his credit file. They also confirmed this offer in writing. However, Mr S didnt take 
up this offer and BMW took action to repossess the car.
Mr S wasnt happy with what had happened, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
While our investigator appreciated Mr Ss financial difficulties, he noted that Mr S continued 
to have use of the car when payments werent being made. But he thought BMW had offered 
Mr S support during his financial difficulties, kept him updated on the arrears situation on his 
account, and acted reasonably by defaulting and terminating the agreement. And he didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that a default would mean he couldnt 
effectively run his business so the penalty that is currently in place is therefore not justified 
or reasonable. He also said that hes asked BMW for copies of the calls hed had with them 
as they directly contradict what the paperwork says and he didnt think it was possible for a 
fair and balanced decision to be made without these.
However, despite BMW confirming the calls had been sent to Mr S, he said that he has been 
unable to access these. So, they cant be provided. As such, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Before I address Mr Ss complaint, hes said I need to listen to the calls he had with BMW to 
understand the full situation. But hes currently unable to provide the call recordings. 
However, Ive seen that BMW have provided extensive case notes, which include details of 
every call they had with Mr S. As I havent seen anything to show me that these notes arent 
correct, or that they werent made at the time, Im satisfied its reasonable for me to rely on 
these notes as the calls themselves arent available. And Im able to reach a final decision 
on this basis.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S was in arrears with BMW. And he didnt 
make any payments between the payment deferral ending in late 2020 and January 2022. 
Ive noted that Mr S says he didnt cancel the direct debit, and there were sufficient funds in 
his account to pay BMW. However, if this was the case, I wouldve expected Mr S to contact 
BMW about the payments not being collected, and to have the funds available to repay the 
missed payments when BMW asked for them.
However, Ive not seen that he did this. But I have seen that he advised BMW that his 
income had been long-term affected as a result of Covid-19, which is why he wasnt able to 
make payments in 2020 and 2021.
The agreement Mr S signed is clear that BMW can end the agreement early, and consider it 
to be in default, if Mr S fails to maintain payments. And, by Mr S not making payments for 
more than 12-months, Im satisfied that BMW had the right to take this action. However, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) also expect financial businesses to treat customers in 
financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.BMWs case notes show that, from the first point Mr S contacted them about his financial 
situation in early 2020, they tried to work with him to clear the arrears in a sustainable way. 
Ive seen that he was offered payment deferrals and his options to exit the agreement were 
discussed. He was also asked to provide income and expenditure details so a longer-term 
solution could be put in place. But, when Mr S provided this information, it showed that the 
payments to BMW were unaffordable.
Given this, Im satisfied that BMW followed the FCAs guidelines around forbearance and 
due consideration. However, its also not reasonable to expect BMW to allow a situation 
such as this to go on indefinitely. And doing so would only put Mr S in a worse situation 
financially  the income and expenditure details he provided in July 2022 showed that his 
monthly expenditure was more than his income, without taking BMWs payment into 
consideration, and ongoing payments were therefore unaffordable. 
So, allowing him to continue to pay £400 a month towards the agreement, or allowing him to 
clear the arrears following the sale of an asset and resume the normal contractual monthly 
payments, would only put Mr S into further debt. Because of this I think it was reasonable for 
BMW to terminate the agreement and start to take steps to repossess the car.
I appreciate the situation Mr S now finds himself in, both with regards to his credit profile and 
that hes reliant on the car due to a family members ill health and transportation 
requirements. But I dont think its fair to allow him to continue to have use of a car that he's 
clearly demonstrated is unaffordable. And to do so would only add to his financial situation, 
potentially putting him in a worse position to the one he now finds himself in. So, for the 
reasons stated, I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman