DRN-3893462
The complaint
Mr A says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr A took out two instalment loans from AvantCredit. Loan 1 was for £3,100 over 24 months. 
It was taken out on 11 April 2016 and repaid on 26 April 2018. The monthly repayment was 
£190.40. Loan 2 was for £3,900 over 36 months. It was taken out on 1 June 2018 and repaid 
on 21 May 2021. The monthly repayment was £191.85. 
Mr A says he was in a cycle of payday loans and it was hard for him to keep up with
payments without borrowing. He wants all charges he paid refunding with 8% interest.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He said AvantCredits checks were
proportionate and it made fair lending decisions. Mr A was taking out both loans for debt
consolidation and so they would reduce the amount of his monthly income he needed to
spend on credit repayments.
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said as we
have acknowledged he already had multiple loans when he applied, surely that was a 
reason not to lend to him. And loan 2 was given only two months after hed settled loan 1, 
but again for debt consolidation.
I reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator but I made different findings in places. So I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties a chance to comment. An extract follows 
and forms part of my final decision. I asked for any comments or new information by 10 
January 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision 
AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr A before it approved the loans. It asked for
details of his income and his residential status. It asked about his living costs and it checked
his credit file to understand his existing credit commitments. It also asked about the purpose
of the loans which was debt consolidation both times. From these checks combined
AvantCredit concluded Mr A would be able to sustainably repay the loans.
Loan 1
I agree that these checks were proportionate for loan 1. I have thought about the term of the
loan (24 months), the stage in the lending relationship and the monthly repayment (£190.40)
relative to Mr As declared income (£2,020). He told AvantCredit his living costs were £500.
AvantCredit was aware from its credit check that Mr A had just under £5,000 of other debt
made up of an overdraft, high-cost short-term loans and a credit card. But as Mr A had
declared that the loan was to settle some of his debt  and I think it was fair for AvantCredfit
to assume this would be the higher cost short-term loans. So it seems reasonable to 
conclude loan 1 would help Mr A break his cycle of reliance on pay day lending, and reduce 
his credit card balance in part. And so it would not financially harmful for Mr A. After repaying 
the more expensive loans he would need to spend around 14% of his monthly income to 
reduce his overdraft, make his credit card repayments, and cover this loan repayment. I 
dont think this ought to have led AvantCredit to think there was a risk Mr A could not 
sustainably afford the loan.
It follows I dont think AvantCredit was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr A.
Loan 2
I think when Mr A returned to borrow again for debt consolidation Avant Credit ought to have
carried out a fuller financial review to check Mr A could sustainably afford the loan.
AvantCredit knew from its credit check that he had £4,358 of debt across an overdraft, credit
card and multiple high-cost short-term loans.
I dont think it would be fair to decline his application for the sole reason that it was to settle
other debts again, as Mr A suggests, but I do think it meant AvantCredit needed to verify his
actual outgoings and incomings to make sure it fully understood his financial circumstances.
So I have looked at Mr As bank statements from the three months prior to his application. I
am not saying AvantCredit had to do exactly this but its a way for me to recreate what better
checks might have shown. However, had it done this I dont think AvantCredit ought to have
made a different decision. The statements show that Mr As declarations for expenses was
accurate and understated for income. His actual average monthly net salary was £2,801
prior to loan 2. I can see there was a regular £200 payment each month which I assume was
the £200 rent he declared. I note Mr A had very few other fixed living costs.
I can see Mr A had again fallen into a cycle of using short-term high-cost credit. But he had
said he was borrowing to repay this debt  and the loan value would have allowed him to
clear all 13 loans he had, his credit card balance in full and reduce his overdraft from £1,489
to £368. So again it seems it would not cause any adverse financial consequences. Our
adjudicator said this meant Mr A would be paying around 10% of his income to cover loan 2
and his remaining overdraft. Using his actual average income it would be even less at
around 7.5% and so I think even if AvantCredit had completed better checks it would have
reasonably thought Mr A could sustainably afford loan 2. 
I accept that it maybe there was some more systemic issue or personal circumstances that 
had caused Mr A to fall back to using payday loans, but I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for AvantCredit to undertake such an in-depth review at the time of this second 
application to discover if this was the case.
It follows I dont think AvantCredit was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr A.
I havent seen any evidence AvantCredit acted unfairly towards Mr A in some other way.
AvantCredit responded saying it had no further comments. Mr A did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new comments or evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows I dont think AvantCredit was wrong to provide either loan to Mr A.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman