DRN-2938336
The complaint
Mr V complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard had increased his credit 
card limit several times when he was already struggling with other debt. 
What happened
Mr V opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in April 2011. And said that overtime the 
credit card limit was substantially increased from £3,000 to £17,000.  Barclaycard said the 
credit card limit increased as below:
November 2012 January 2013 January 2014 August 2015 January 2019
£5,000 £7,000 £10,000 £14,000 £17,000
Mr V complained to Barclaycard. They said Mr Vs credit card limit hadnt been set too high. 
And that there wasnt any evidence that Mr V wouldnt be able to afford the increases or that 
he was in financial difficulty. They also said they periodically review accounts and contact 
customers to let them know they have been selected for a proactive credit limit increase. 
They said they inform customers 30 days before the limit is increased and offer an 
opportunity for customers to opt out. 
Mr V wasnt happy with Barclaycards response. He said his indebtedness had increased 
and hed asked Barclaycard in mid-2020 to reduce his interest rate, but theyd refused. He 
said Barclaycard hadnt done sufficient checks as he was only making minimum payments 
and regularly over his credit card limit. Mr V referred his complaint to us and asked for the 
interest charges and fees to be removed from when his credit card limit was increased. He 
also asked for any adverse information to be removed from his credit file.
As Mr V said hed only become aware that he could complain in September 2020 our 
investigator said that we could consider Mr Vs credit card from its inception. And 
Barclaycard gave their consent for us to do this.
Our investigator said that Barclaycard had relied on generalised data about Mr Vs financial 
situation. And that they should have asked for further information to determine the true state 
of Mr Vs finances. But she said if they had Barclaycard would most likely have made the 
same lending decision. So, she didnt think Barclaycard had acted unreasonably in 
increasing his credit card limits.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators view, he said he was only making his credit card 
payments by utilising other credit from personal loans, he asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I understand Mr V will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I can see Mr V has raised a number of points in response to our investigators view. I have 
carefully considered all points but if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them that 
Mr V would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Barclaycard make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr V 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Barclaycard lent to Mr V required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Barclaycard need to think
about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr V. In other words, it wasnt enough for Barclaycard to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr V himself.
Barclaycard is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. Theres no set list for what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are. What constitutes a proportionate affordability 
check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific circumstances of the 
borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to the amount, type 
and cost of credit being applied for.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) provides examples of the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, 
under which, they should be applied.Credit card application April 2011
Mr V opened the account with Barclaycard in April 2011, this was for a platinum credit card 
with 14 months zero percent interest on balance transfers and purchases over a 14-month 
period. The credit card limit was £3,000. And I can see Barclaycard based their assessment 
on Mr V having an income of £32,000. As this was over six years ago not all of the 
information Barclaycard would have used to assess Mr Vs affordability is available to me. 
But Id have expected them to consider his income and expenditure and his credit history. Mr 
V has provided a credit report from 2015 which does show the status of his accounts at the 
time he applied for the credit card. This showed hed credit commitments for a personal loan 
- £183 per month and another credit card with a credit limit of £1,800. And there wasnt any 
evidence on the credit report of any missed payments, all the accounts were up to date.
Mr V has provided his own income and expenditure for this period. This shows he had an 
income of £1,995. And outgoings of £670.06 which included the personal loan and credit 
card.  Mr V has shown he was over the limit on his credit card. But Im satisfied on this 
evidence that the Barclaycard was affordable for Mr V, and hed sufficient disposable income 
which meant any repayments would have been sustainable for him. So, I dont think 
Barclaycard acted irresponsibly in lending to him.
Increased credit limits from 2011  2014
Barclaycard said Mr Vs credit card limit was increased in November 2012, but from the 
statements Ive seen the increased credit limit to £5,000 was applied to the December 2012 
statement. And a further credit limit to £7,000 was applied to the January 2013 statement. 
And it was February 2014 statement where the credit card limit shows as having increased 
to £10,000. Again, as these increases happened over six years ago the information available 
to me is limited. 
Mr V has shown his income and outgoings for around these times:
 Income OutgoingsDisposable 
income Barclaycard 
Nov-12 2217 1417.08 799.92 84.86
Jan-13 2623 2144.36 478.64 621.99
Jan-14 2623 2144.36 478.64 621.99
Ive included in the above the amount Mr V said his outgoings were for his Barclaycard. For 
November 2012, this reflected the minimum payment, but  Mr V has allowed a much larger 
amount for January 2013 and January 2014. This would show that Mr V had sufficient 
disposable income each month to sustain his Barclaycard commitments. And with the 
minimum Barclaycard payment being far less than £621.99, being around £90. So, on this 
information the increase up to £10,000 does appear to be affordable for Mr V. 
Ive also looked at his Barclaycard statements leading up to the increases.
I can see that Mr V was close to the limit of his credit card from 2011 and usually paid the 
minimum amount or slightly more on occasion. From September 2012 Mr V was over the 
limit for his credit card and was incurring £12 over the limit charges each month. But his 
payments were made on time. And from the above he would have had sufficient disposable 
income to return the credit card to within its limits, especially given he has used £621.99 as 
his Barclaycard commitment, when at this time his minimum payment was between £65 and £85. So, I cant say that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Vs credit card limit 
to £5,000.  
I havent seen any evidence to show why Mr V had the next increase so soon afterwards. 
But the lending decision would have been based on the same information as outlined above 
so again the increased lending would look to be affordable. And I dont think Barclaycard 
acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr V.
I can see from January 2013, the account continued to be paid on time, and several 
payments were made by Mr V each month. But from May to August 2013 statement the 
account was over its limit, with Mr V only paying the minimum amount due, and he was 
incurring over the limit charges. But I can see on the August 2013 statement Mr V made a 
payment of £5,000. And from then until the next increase the account remained within its 
credit limit and Mr V paid several payments a month into the account, above the minimum 
payment due.
And again, Mr Vs credit file didnt show any adverse information, so I dont consider the 
increase to £10,000 in January 2014 to be unaffordable as Mr V had disposable income and 
was sustaining his credit commitment payments. So, I dont think Barclaycard acted 
irresponsibly in lending to him.
Increased credit limits 2015 
Barclaycard said their lending was based fundamentally on affordability. When applying the 
credit limit increases, they considered information including any signs of over indebtedness 
or delinquency. They also receive information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) and 
used this, together with information on how Mr V was performing against his Barclaycard 
account, to work out a score which determines the probability of the account defaulting in the 
next 12 months  they refer to this as the probability of default score. 
From the increase to £10,000 in January 2014, I can see Mr Vs account remained within its 
credit limit for several months and he was again making several payments in excess of the 
minimum payment over this time. And on the March 2015 statement he paid in total 
£7,256.36, and this reduced his outstanding balance to around 32% of his credit limit. I can 
see Mr V continued to make large payments into the account each month from then on. The 
account limit was increased from £10,000 to £14,000 in August 2015. 
As outlined above Barclaycard considered affordability and sustainability when making their 
lending decision. The evidence they saw validated Mr Vs income. And showed his level of 
indebtedness and the possibility of his being unable to make his repayments as low. Along 
with the way Mr V ran his account they made the decision to increase his credit limit to 
£14,000. 
Mr V has provided his own income and expenditure , which shows he had a salary of £2,814 
per month, with outgoings, including £600 for the repayment for his Barclaycard as 
£2,408.14. This meant hed have had a disposable income of £405.86. His minimum 
payment around this time would have been about £328, rather than the £600 he was 
budgeting for. 
Ive also looked at Mr Vs credit file and this shows he continued to be up to date with his 
repayment history to other lenders, with no adverse information. So, I think the increased 
credit limit was affordable, and I dont think Barclaycard acted irresponsibly in lending to him.  Increase in 2019
The account limit was then increased again in January 2019 from £14,000 to £17,000. But I 
can also see that Mr Vs salary increased quite considerably as well to £ £4,176.00.
Again, Barclaycard used generalised data from a third party that analysed available 
evidence about Mr Vs income and expenditure. The level of indebtedness and the potential 
for the account to default were considered. Mr V hadnt raised any concerns about financial 
difficulties, and continued to pay his credit card account, on time. I can see that Mr V was 
over the credit card limit at various times. But I can also see that he was also, at times, 
paying more than the minimum payment. And on July 2018s statement he made a payment 
into the account of £11,762.25. And from then he continued to maintain within his credit limit, 
well below the £14,000. At the time of the increase in January 2019 he was utilising 67% of 
his credit limit. And, again Mr Vs credit report showed all repayments were up to date. So, 
Im satisfied the increase was affordable and Barclaycard had acted responsibility in lending 
to Mr V.
Before all the increases, Barclaycard explained to Mr V that the increase was available to 
him, and that he could cancel the increase, and the actions he needed to take to do this. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr V asked Barclaycard not to increase his credit limit.
I think the checks carried out by Barclaycard are reasonable and proportionate as they take 
into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would 
reasonably expect because they would help Barclaycard to not only build a picture of Mr Vs 
financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. 
And when looking at Mr Vs account he was making large payments each month, often 
multiple payments. Barclaycard saw this as an excellently run account, which is why Mr Vs 
account was proactively selected for increases. They used generalised data from a third 
party who gave a holistic view of Mr Vs affordability and lending commitments. The 
assessment showed the lending was within the limits that could be afforded at the time they 
were given. 
I know Mr V will be disappointed but Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons outlined 
above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman