DRN-4088701
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) provided to him. 
He says TM Advances irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr K and TM Advances had told us. And he thought 
that TM Advances hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint.
TM Advances needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is TM Advances needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr K could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TM Advances provided Mr K with a loan for £1,500.00 in April 2022. It had an APR of 
213.5% and was to due be repaid in 30 instalments of £159, which meant the total amount to 
be repaid was £4,770.00. 
TM Advances says it agreed to Mr Ks application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Mr K. The information Mr K provided about his income and expenditure 
showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to.                  
TM Advances says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,  
Mr K has said he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr K and TM Advances have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Mr Ks first loan with TM Advances. The information provided does 
suggest Mr K was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and TM Advances 
didnt just rely on what it was told. Equally while Mr K did have some existing debts already 
these dont appear to be unsustainable given the Mr Ks income and his living expenses.
I accept that Mr Ks actual circumstances may not have been accurately reflected in the 
information gathered. But when Mr Ks monthly expenditure is deducted from his income, I 
dont think it can be reasonably concluded that there was no reasonable prospect of Mr K 
being able to make the payments to this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
On the contrary it appears as though Mr K had sufficient funds to be able to make his 
payments.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that TM Advances did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr K  as it looks to be the case that reasonable and 
proportionate checks wont have shown the monthly loan repayments to be unaffordable. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman