DRN-2823936
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has treated her unfairly and has quoted 
an early settlement figure for her personal loan which is too high. She wants it to reach a fair 
settlement with her.
What happened
Mrs O tells that the she took out a loan in 2017 for £35,000. She wants to repay the loan 
early. She says that the settlement figure quoted by Tesco is much higher than she 
anticipated. And that this is due to Tesco front-loading the interest charges.
Tesco told us that it had acted in accordance with the terms of the agreement which Mrs O 
had entered. And that the way it applied interest was quite standard across the industry. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Tesco 
had applied the terms and conditions of the loan correctly.
Mrs O didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs O would be disappointed to be notified about a higher figure required 
to settle her loan early than that which shed anticipated.
I expect it will come as little consolation to her that her complaint is not unusual. And that this 
service deals with many complaints against a variety of businesses where the circumstances 
are similar.
The term which Mrs O has used about front-loaded interest is capable of more than one 
meaning. And in her complaint form, Mrs O said that her payments had been used to pay off 
the interest before the capital. This isnt entirely correct.
I suspect the type of front-loading to which Mrs O might be referring would be the practice 
of applying all the interest at the start and not making any allowance or rebate for an early 
settlement. But thats not whats happened here.
Usually, where a consumer wishes to make an early payment, to repay the whole or part of a 
balance on a regulated loan, the business is obliged to apply the terms of relevant legislation 
to the payment. Here, The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (CCR) 
apply.
In summary, these say that where a loan is repaid early, consumers are entitled to a rebate. 
In calculating any settlement figure, a lender will initially work out the total interest payable 
as if the loan had remained outstanding for the remaining term of the loan. That amount is 
then reduced by giving an interest rebate to reflect that the loan is being repaid early. 
The regulations also allow lenders to defer the date of the calculation by a sum equivalent to 
58 days interest where the loan is for more than a year  as is the case here. 
Ive seen the loan agreement which Mrs O signed. This set out how the total interest was 
calculated at the start of the agreement. And then added to the capital sum. The resultant 
figure was then divided equally between the monthly payments. The agreement also goes 
on to explain that the consumer can make early repayments of the debt by making a 
payment to settle the whole or part of the outstanding balance.
Whilst its true that a higher proportion of the early instalments are applied to interest, there 
is still some part of the monthly payments which reduce the capital balance. And provided 
payments are maintained  as is the case with Mrs O  the proportion of capital repaid by an 
instalment increases as the agreement gets older.
Tesco sent Mrs O a settlement figure on 21 February 2021. This letter referred to the 
applicable rebate having been calculated in accordance with the CCRs. Im satisfied that 
Tesco has calculated the correct rebate in accordance with the relevant regulations.
Mrs O mentions that she wont now be able to pay off the loan in full. And Im sorry that this 
comes as a disappointment. But even if she makes only an early partial-settlement of the 
agreement, this would result in a proportionate rebate by allowing her to reduce either the 
level of monthly instalments or the number of instalments remaining.
In summary, Im satisfied that Tesco set out the relevant terms of the agreement in a clear 
manner at the outset. And that Mrs O agreed to accept these. Its calculated the rebate and 
the resultant settlement figure as required. So Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman