DRN-2904086
The complaint
Mr W complains that his ISA transfer should have taken no more than 15 days and that
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd is responsible for the delays and resultant investment
loss. 
What happened
Mr Ws proposed new provider, F, sent his transfer form to Vanguard on 4 March 2020; 
Vanguard said it didnt receive this till 9 March. Given this period included a weekend the 
investigator didnt find this surprising or suspicious.
Vanguard did not appear to take any action until after Mr W rang to chase up the transfer 
on 24 March. It promised to respond by the end of the week but didnt do so. Instead, it 
sent a valuation letter (of Mr Ws ISA) to F on 30 March. This was 21 days after receiving 
his transfer request.
On 8 April Vanguard spoke to a representative of F, explaining that it could not send the 
proceeds by cheque, as had been requested, and requested Fs bank details. The 
representative said he could not provide these by phone and sent them by post; Vanguard 
claimed it did not receive these until 14 April.
.
During this interregnum F sent two chaser letters to Vanguard about the delay in the 
transfer.
The transfer was completed on 26 April and F invested the cash in Mr Ws chosen 
investment fund the following day.
When Mr W complained, Vanguard said transfers can take up to 30 days but 
acknowledged there had been some delays and offered him £100 in lieu of this.
An investigator at this service concluded that Vanguard was responsible for some of the 
delay and was satisfied that Mr W intended to invest in his chosen investment fund as 
soon as the funds became available. Vanguard was therefore responsible for any 
investment loss arising from the delays which were its fault.
There were then lengthy exchanges about the regulatory requirements, custom and pra e
etc. and therefore the extent of the delay Vanguard should be deemed responsible for.
In her final assessment, she said:
Although Mr W held a Stocks and Shares ISA all his money was in cash. So 
while she accepted that the 15-day guideline didnt apply, equally she didnt 
believe it should have taken 30 days given Vanguard did not need to obtain 
share values and sell assets in order to complete the transfer
She also didnt accept that the HMRC guidelines meant businesses did not have 
to attempt to complete transfers until the final day of the 30 calendar-day period
She accepted that Covid may have caused some understandable delay but had 
seen no evidence that Vanguard had taken any proactive steps to progress the 
transfer until Mr W chased things
Overall, she felt the 15-day guideline was more applicable than the 30-day one, 
and that both referred to calendar days and not business days
Vanguard acknowledged that it had received Fs bank account details on 14 
April. This was 11 working days
She also felt it should have taken no more than five working days for Vanguard 
to then complete the transfer
Overall, she felt that  but for Vanguards failings  it ought to have been possible 
for the transfer to be completed some point between the 16th working day after it 
received the transfer application and the 30th calendar day
She therefore proposed that Vanguard carry out a calculation of the average unit 
(purchase) price of the F equity fund between the 20th working day and 8th April 
2020 and then determine how many units Mr Ws money would have been able to 
purchase at that time and compare this against the number of units actually 
purchased following the transfer. If there is a difference in the number of units, 
Vanguard should arrange to place Mr W in the same position he would have been 
in had he purchased these additional units within his ISA
She felt Vanguard should pay £200 in total in lieu of the trouble and upset 
caused and noted that it had agreed to this
Mr W responded, saying:
At a minimum the redress should be calculated from the commencement of 
the period Vanguard had all the information
I have explained the rationale of this in my prior correspondence, with the main 
points being if we are allowing Vanguard the full 30 calendar-day period for 
redress purposes, the start date for calculation should be the earliest this could 
have occurred
I have also provided evidence as to why it is feasible Vanguard could have acted 
the same day which further supports the use of this earlier date for the redress 
calculation
In this earlier correspondence, Mr W contested various assumptions on which 
the investigator had reached her earlier view. As I largely (but not wholly) 
accept his interpretation of events, I will not repeat these at length here.
Vanguard did not agree with the investigators proposed redress, saying:
We only offer a Stocks & Shares ISAs and our processes are based on this
A client holding a Stocks & Shares ISA, yet only transferring cash, does not bring 
the Stocks & Shares ISA transfer into the scope of the Cash ISA to Cash ISA 
timeframes of 15 business daysThe HMRC Guidelines for Stocks & Shares ISAs state that transfers should 
be completed within 30 calendar days
TISA guidance is 30 business days which is more reasonable at certain times of 
the year, such as Easter in this case, where longer Bank Holidays can have a 
significant impact on the timeframes
However, both of these measures are guidance only and while the vast majority 
of transfers do compete quickly and within these timescales, they can sometimes 
take longer
Our Terms & Conditions state we will process Transfer Out requests no later than 
30 business days following receipt of a validated instruction to do so
We received Mr Ws request on Monday 9th March 2020 and the transfer 
was completed on 5th May 2020. A period of 40 business days
During this time the industry was affected by the sudden change in ways of 
working due to Covid restrictions as well as it being tax year end
However, we were actively advising clients that transfers were taking longer 
than usual during this time by sending out emails and secure messages as well 
as through articles uploaded to our website to warn of the situation. This caused 
the delay between receiving the request and sending the valuation to F 15 
business days later on 30th March 2020
We believe that five working days is a reasonable period for this to have 
been completed
Therefore, based on the subsequent timings, Mr Ws transfer could have 
completed on 21st April 2020
We strongly believe we should not be held solely responsible for the delays 
completing her transfer as some of the delay was caused by the other 
providers processes or errors
In a provisional decision, I said:
Firstly, I think it is important to reiterate in this specific case that my role and that of this 
service is to assess what we feel is fair and reasonable, not solely to consider terms 
and conditions or transfer time-limits etc i.e. we assess what a business ought 
reasonably to have done to provide an appropriate and timely service to its customers.
In this context, I do not accept that this complaint should be judged solely by the criterion 
of whether Vanguard completed the transfer in 30 working days (in fact, it didnt). There is 
a very good reason why HMRC guidelines suggest that while a Cash ISA ought 
reasonably to be completed within 15 days other ISAs may take up to 30 calendar days. 
This is because stocks and shares transfers typically require significantly more work, 
obtaining transfer values, checking in specie considerations, requesting encashments etc. 
So it would not be appropriate to expect businesses to complete all these tasks within 15 
days as a matter of course.By contrast, Mr Ws assets, despite being held in a Stocks and Shares ISA, were already in 
cash and he simply instructed Vanguard to transfer this cash to another provider (within his 
ISA holding). In my view, this presents no greater challenge than a cash to cash transfer 
and Vanguard ought reasonably to have been able to do this within 15 working days, 
assuming there were no complications outside its control. This, in my view, would have 
constituted appropriately prompt customer service.
So, as Vanguard received Mr Ws signed instructions on 9 March 2020, I believe it should 
have completed the transfer by March 30 at the latest but for delays outside its control. In 
this context, I dont accept Vanguards argument that because it only deals with Stocks 
and Shares ISAs, this means it is automatically entitled to take 30 days to complete 
simple transfer requests.
Crucially, there is no evidence that Vanguard did anything to progress the transfer for 21 
days, and then only after being chased by Mr W. This didnt take place for another six days. 
I also dont accept Vanguards argument that Covid was a sufficient explanation for it 
appearing to do nothing between 9 March and 30 March. The Government didnt 
recommend working from home, if possible, till 16 March; and according to Mr W, Vanguard 
said they did not action this till 23 March  by which time the transfer ought to have been 
close to completion.
I have therefore assessed what delays were due to Mr Ws proposed new provider.
On 8 April Vanguard informed F that it could not pay the proceeds by cheque and F said it 
would send these details the same day by letter. Vanguard says it didnt receive this letter 
till 22 April. Even assuming F sent this letter second class post, there is no persuasive 
evidence to safely conclude that Vanguard did not receive it for 14 days.
Given the considerable evidence demonstrating that Vanguard did not act promptly 
throughout this process (including a failure to respond to phone calls or emails promptly), 
it is quite possible that it didnt receive the letter more quickly
In any event, given the very considerable delay before Vanguard took any action, I think 
it ought to have proactively chased the new provider to ensure it received its bank details 
as soon as possible.
Its also important to note that once it had taken receipt of Fs bank details, the actual 
transfer took place relatively quickly. Taking this and the other relevant evidence into 
account, I believe Vanguard should reasonably have completed Mr Ws transfer 
somewhere between 31 March and 4 April 2020 - if it had acted with appropriate diligence.
In this context it is important to point out that HMRC advice says cash transfers should 
take no longer than 15 days while some providers refer to two weeks being the expected 
time for a cash transfer. So, the question of what action a provider takes, or doesnt take, 
is crucial when considering if it aced promptly and appropriately. This is why I am satisfied 
that my time window on 31 March to 4 April is fair and reasonable.
I have considered at length the numerous submissions by both parties about this 
issue, along with the investigators various assessments, but I am satisfied  on the 
balance of probabilities - that this is a fair and reasonable conclusion.
I therefore currently intend to instruct Vanguard to pay compensation based on this being 
the likely period when Mr W could reasonably have received the proceeds  and invested 
them the following day.Vanguard must therefore:
Carry out a carry out a calculation of the average unit (purchase) price of the 
Fundsmith equity fund between 31 March 2020 and 4 April 2020 (i.e. one day after 
the specified dates when the transfer could have completed) and then determine 
how many units Mr Ws money would have been able to purchase at that time
Compare this against the number of units actually purchased following the transfer
If there is a difference in the number of units, Vanguard should place Mr W in the 
same position he would have been in had he purchased these additional units 
within his ISA, doing this by purchasing such units on his behalf
Finally, I have considered all the evidence regarding Vanguards actions and the extent 
to which it caused Mr W trouble and upset via its failures. Having done so, I do not 
believe £200 fairly reflects this. Mr W was transferring a large sum of money, his entire 
ISA holding, from a cash holding to invest in a chosen fund. This would have been a big 
decision and when things clearly didnt progress would undoubtedly, in my view, have 
caused considerable distress.
The fact that Vanguard did not respond promptly to his queries would have added to this. 
Further, Vanguards handling of her complaint left much to be desired, including failing to 
recognise that even the small delay it accepted responsibility had not caused an 
investment loss. Overall, I believe £350 to be a fair figure in lieu of these issues and 
therefore intend to instruct Vanguard to pay a further £250, as I understand that only £100 
has been paid.
Both parties accepted my proposed compensation.
Mr W pointed that the decision about his partners identical complaint had used the 
timespan between 30 March and 4 April; not 31 March and 4 April as I had written in this 
provisional decision - and this, he said, did not feel fair.
I felt this was right, and better reflected my conclusions about when the transfer ought to 
have completed but for Vanguards mistakes. I informed Vanguard of this and it did not 
object.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons previously outlined, I uphold this complaint  and still believe my proposed 
compensation is about right.
Putting things right
Vanguard must:
Carry out a calculation of the average unit (purchase) price of the Fundsmith equity 
fund between 30 March 2020 and 4 April 2020 and then determine how many units 
Mr Ws money would have been able to purchase at that time
Compare this against the number of units actually purchased following the transferIf there is a difference in the number of units, Vanguard should place Mr W in the 
same position he would have been in had he purchased these additional units 
within his ISA, doing this by purchasing such units on his behalf
Pay Mr W a further £250 in lieu of the trouble and upset caused
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Vanguard Asset Management Ltd to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman