DRN-2848334
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to declare his
policy void, turn down his claim following an accident and reclaim what theyve paid to settle
claims from third parties.  
What happened
Mr A was in an accident on a motorway when he went into the back of another car. And he
made a claim under his car insurance policy with Advantage. He claimed for damage to his
car. And the parties in the other car claimed against him for damage and injuries sustained 
in the accident.
Advantage inspected Mr As car and asked him to fill in a form about the accident and his
car. They also collected further information about the accident. When Mr A provided
information about his car, he said hed modified it by lowering the suspension and fitting an
air filter. Advantage then said that because Mr A hadnt disclosed these modifications they
were declaring his policy void and refusing his claim. They then went on to settle the claims
from the other parties. And - nearly two years later - they told Mr A theyd done this and he
had to pay back what theyd paid out - over £16,000.
Mr A complained to Advantage about them voiding the policy and the fact theyd paid the
claims from the parties in the other car. He said he was concerned their claims were
fraudulent in light of the limited impact. Advantage rejected Mr As complaint.
Mr A asked us to consider a complaint against Advantage and one of our investigators
considered it. She concluded Advantage were entitled to declare Mr As policy void, refuse
his claim and recover what theyd paid to the other parties.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2021 and what I provisionally decided and why 
was as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I think I should make it clear that  despite what Advantage have said  the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) isnt relevant to what
happened in Mr As case. CIDRA only applies where a consumer fails to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation to an insurer, whereas Mr A simply failed to contact
Advantage and let them know about changes hed made to his car after taking out the policy.
This means Advantage were not entitled to declare Mr As policy void from its start date.
Advantage does at least seem to have realised this after Mr A told them hed made changes
to his car after his policy had started. And they also referred to the policy condition which
required Mr A to tell them about changes to his circumstances and/or car after the policy had
started. And it seems, ultimately, Advantage relied on the fact Mr A breached this condition
to declare his policy void and refuse his claim.
Mr A has admitted he did change his car by lowering the suspension, which involved fitting
new coil springs, and by fitting an air filter, after his policy had started. And hes also
admitted he didnt tell Advantage about these things, as he didnt realise he needed to. So
Ive considered whether, in view of this, Advantages decision to declare Mr As policy void
was reasonable. And I dont think it was. This is because  despite the policy term requiring
Mr A to tell Advantage about any change in circumstances or modifications to his car, I dont
think the changes he made were actually fundamental to the risk Advantage had agreed to
insure. And this means I dont think Advantage could reasonably take any action or make
changes to Mr As policy, whether he told them or not.
I say this because the insurance contract Mr A had with Advantage was an annual one and
Mr A was required to provide accurate information at the start and again if he renewed it.
But, Advantage was or should have been aware of the possibility that changes of a more
minor nature could take place. And I think this was effectively part of the risk they agreed to
insure. Had the changes to Mr As car been more fundamental, I may well have taken a
different view. But an air filter and new coil springs  in my opinion  had a negligible impact
on the performance of the car or the likelihood of it being stolen or damaged.
So I think Advantage should have continued with Mr As policy, accepted his claim for
damage to his car. And then gone on to settle the claims from the parties in the other car if
they felt it was appropriate to do so, without recovering what theyd paid to the other parties
from Mr A.
This means I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint,
Advantage should retrospectively reinstate Mr As policy and settle the claim for the damage
to his car in accordance with the policy terms. And they should stop any process or
proceedings to recover what they paid to the other parties from Mr A. If Advantage refunded
any of Mr As premium they can take this off what they pay in settlement of his claim for his
car. This means that, if Mr A has paid for his car to be repaired, Advantage will need to
reimburse what he paid, less any excess applicable and any premium they refunded. If Mr A
hasnt had his car repaired, Advantage will need to work out an appropriate settlement in
light of this.
Advantage must also remove or amend any record of the voidance of Mr As policy from
their own records and from any external databases. This should mean if Mr A has had to
declare the voidance to other insurers, he can now contact them and let them know it
shouldnt have happened. And they will hopefully provide a refund of premium if he was
charged more because he declared this.
I have noted Mr As concerns about Advantage settling the claims from the other parties, but
the evidence Advantage has provided  although limited in respect of two of the other
parties claims - suggests to me this was a reasonable decision in the circumstances. Plus,
Advantage does have the right under Mr As policy to settle claims against him as they feel
appropriate. And - if Advantage hadnt actually declared Mr As policy void - this would have
happened anyway. Although, either way Advantage needed to keep Mr A much better
informed about what was happening.
The only difference would have been Mr A wouldnt have had the worry and distress of
finding out this had happened so long after the event. And  more importantly  he would not
have had the very distressing situation of being pursued for a very significant debt. So I think
Advantage should also pay Mr A a significant amount in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience their incorrect decision to declare his policy void caused him. And I think £500
is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 28 May to make further comments and provide further evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr A and his representative have said they are happy with my provisional decision. 
Advantage havent responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A and his representative have said they are happy with my provisional decision and 
Advantage havent responded, I see no reason to alter what I provisionally decided.  
Putting things right
I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint is as set out in my provisional 
decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above, I have decided to 
uphold Mr As complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Limited must do the following:
Retrospectively reinstate Mr As policy and remove or amend any record of voiding it 
from their records and any external databases.
Settle Mr As claim for the damage to his car in accordance with the policy terms, less 
any premium they refunded to Mr A.
Stop any process of proceedings to recover what they paid to settle the claims of the 
parties in the car Mr A went into the back of.
Pay Mr A £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should do all this within 28 days of us telling them 
Mr A has accepted my final decision. If they pay any amounts due to Mr A later than this 
they should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of my decision to the 
date they make payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman