DRN-2199406
The complaint
Mrs T complains about mistakes made by Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON) in
paying her spouses annuity.
What happened
Mrs T is represented by her son. She says that in autumn 2019 AEGON contacted her by
letter to say it had discovered it shouldve started to pay her a spouses annuity following the
death of her husband in 2011. Mrs T said she was blind and needed help from her son. He
wrote on her behalf to complain and ask for details of the pension. AEGON requested
evidence of authority for Mr T to deal on behalf of Mrs T and for identity documentation for
Mr T. There was a delay in ascertaining what was required to verify authority and identity
and the matters didnt progress. To date this hadnt been resolved and the pension
remains unpaid.
Mrs T said she needed the money to pay for her daily needs and that she had been drawing
on her NS& I pension bonds. Mrs T wanted details of the pension and to understand that the
amount offered was correct and unaffected by for example her husband taking a lump sum
when he retired and what increase applied to the pension when in payment. She also
wanted to understand why there was such a long delay in dealing with this matter and
wanted an award for distress and inconvenience to reflect the delay in payment since 2011
and time and additional work required to resolve the matter.
AEGON said it couldnt provide further information about Mrs Ts policy without being
satisfied that Mr T had authority to deal on behalf of Mrs T and to verify his identity.
My provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint and said the following.
The original error
There was no dispute that AEGON made a mistake in not paying Mrs T her spouses annuity 
which it had accepted by contacting Mrs T.I noted it also said sorry in its letter.
In such a situation the law would seek to put Mrs T back in the position she wouldve been in
but for that mistake. That would mean her loss is measured as the amount of spouses
pension that shouldve been paid following her husbands death. It would also be reasonable
to make an award for loss of use of the money during the time of non-payment. Typically,
that would be by an addition of interest on the amount.
I considered the offer first made by AEGON. I didnt think it was reasonable. I said that
because although it offered to pay the back payments, which the law would require, it offered
to pay interest on this amount at the rate of RPI plus 1%. AEGON wouldve been aware that
an award made by this service would use the rate of 8% per annum simple which since the
error was made in 2011 would be greater than the amount it offered as interest.
I noted also that Mrs T said she had been living in part from savings and had been 
encashing pensioner bonds to meet her regular needs. She wouldnt have had to do that to 
the extent she had received the pension that was payable. She said these carried an interest 
rate and implied that she should be compensated for that loss of interest. However, I 
believed the rate of 8% per annum simple also exceeded the rate she was earning on those 
bonds so there wouldnt be any financial loss. I therefore think 8% per annum simple is an 
appropriate basis to compensate for loss of use of the money and the need to encash other 
money.
I noted also that it didnt provide any copy documentation or evidence of the amount of the
pension that was payable. Its letter and enclosed agreement forms wouldve required Mrs T
to confirm acceptance and release AEGON without any verification of the amount owed. I
didnt think that was very helpful or reasonable.
Mrs T asked about the circumstances when the annuity was first taken out by her husband
and whether he had taken any lump sum. These are reasonably questions given that a lump
sum can reduce the remaining pension but in some cases the spouses pension can be
based on the unreduced pension.
AEGON has since provided this service with copies of policy schedules for both Mr and Mrs
T. It seemed the annuity secured a pension that was originally earned in an occupational
pension scheme. It seemed that the scheme took out a block policy to secure some or all of 
the pensions earned in the scheme. I said that because the annuity schedule refers to the 
name of the occupational scheme and the master policy.
The policy schedules for Mr and Mrs T quoted an annual amount without any increases.
Given the date of the policy it seemed the pension was earned at a time before the law 
required pensions to increase in payment. As the policy schedule didnt list any increases in
payment, I thought it was reasonable to assume the original scheme didnt have any such
increases which wouldnt have been untypical at that time. Both policy schedules quoted 
fixed amounts and the amount payable to Mrs T is half that payable to Mr T. Based on the
evidence supplied I thought it was reasonable to conclude that the amount of pension 
AEGON has offered to pay Mrs T was of the correct amount, didnt carry any increases in 
payment and even if a lump sum was payable it didnt affect the amount of the spouses 
pension.
As the annuity was issued as part of a block policy for an occupational scheme and started
in the late 1980s Mr T wouldnt typically have had a choice about the annuity which was 
most likely issued to secure the pension that the occupational pension scheme would 
otherwise have had to pay. So, I didnt think there was a need to investigate the situation 
when Mr Ts pension was first put into payment.
I thought a reasonable award for Mrs Ts financial loss would be to pay Mrs T the arrears of
pension plus interest thereon from the date that AEGON would have paid each instalment to
the date of actual payment to Mrs T at the rate of 8% per annum simple. I noted that AEGON
and Mrs T had accepted this proposal.
AEGONs approach to fixing the mistake
I considered all the arguments surrounding the correspondence between the parties so
there is no need to repeat it. Over all I would say that AEGON wasnt proactive in assisting
Mrs T in providing it with what it needed to deal with her.
I said that because while requests for confirmation of authority and identity are reasonable it
didnt assist by providing details of what was needed. For example, it said a letter ofauthority or Power of Attorney would be needed. But it didnt provide a preferred form for the
letter nor indicate the content needed. When one was produced on behalf of Mrs T it
rejected it as it didnt quote the policy name, National insurance number and other details it
said needed to be included. But it hadnt said that it needed those details to be included nor
specified a format.
It became clear that due to Mrs Ts disability it felt it needed to ensure her son had authority
to act on her behalf and to verify his identity. I thought that was reasonable but the advent of
COVID 19 meant its call centre was no longer operational and the complaint team couldnt
communicate by phone. Given the error was caused by AEGON and that Mrs T is in her
nineties I thought it would be reasonable to expect AEGON to have been more proactive and
helpful for example by being very clear and explicit about what was needed and why it was
needed. This couldve allowed the matter of putting the pension into payment to be resolved
much more quickly.
I am aware that Mrs Ts son has been reluctant to provide a copy of the Power of Attorney
and supporting ID to show he is Mrs Ts son. He wanted AEGON to reassure him that once
this was provided it would be sufficient for its purposes, but it declined to do that which
wasnt very helpful. It has now provided details of what it needs to verify authority and
identity for the Power of Attorney.
So, for those reasons I didnt think AEGONs handling of the correspondence was proactive 
and mustve caused Mrs T further distress and inconvenience. I have considered the level of 
award for distress and inconvenience and Mrs Ts contention that the impact was severe.
I note that: -
 Mrs T did question AEGON at the time of her husbands death but was told there was
no spouses pension which was clearly wrong. This mustve been upsetting for her at
a difficult time.
 AEGON didnt pay her a pension she was due for over eight years.
 I am also conscious that the payment to Mrs T will be subject to tax most likely at an
initial emergency rate. This would mean that Mrs T will be put to further trouble to
reclaim any overpaid tax.
 Mrs T says this has affected her living standard as she has been deprived of that
income and needed to use savings. She had provided details of her income and
expenditure. It seems that without the pension Mrs T was still able to make her monthly
payments. To conclude that the impact was severe I would look for evidence that the
reduction in income caused her to have to reduce her living standards and/or caused
long term distress and embarrassment due to its absence. However, it is clear that
while Mrs T has had to use her savings, she has been able to pay for her own
support even without the spouses pension. So, I cant reasonably conclude that the
impact has been severe but clearly the absence of the pension may have meant she
needed to draw on savings faster than wouldve been the case.
In considering an award for distress and inconvenience I need to consider the impact on Mrs
T and not her son who isnt a party to this complaint even though he represents Mrs T. It
also isnt the purpose of such an award to punish AEGON.
Having considered what I have said about both the original error and the more recent
Dealing, I think the overall impact was substantial and an award of £750.00 would bereasonable.
I note also that Mrs T has asked for and AEGON has agreed to make a further apology
about recent handling of the matter.
Mrs T also wanted to understand why the mistake happened. AEGON has explained this in
the context of seeking to stream line and automate its systems, so I didnt think any further
explanation was needed.
I proposed to uphold the complaint and direct that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON
should pay Mrs T the following: -
1. The arrears of annual pension payments due under her spouses annuity,
2.  Interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date it should
have been paid each month to the date of actual payment.
3. £750.00 in respect of distress and inconvenience.
4. AEGON should issue a written apology to Mrs T for its handling of this matter.
Mrs T said that she provisionally accepted my provisional decision subject to some 
conditions. She remained disappointed that AEGON hadnt accepted her telephone authority 
or letter of authority. She also felt the original papers supplied in August 2019 and signed by 
her should be included in the process and details of other actions needed to implement the 
decision should to be listed in a side letter. Mrs T also noted that AEGON should make 
reasonable adjustments for her disability and avoid direct discrimination.
AEGON accepted the provisional decision and said that it felt it had already provided details 
of wat was needed to verify authority and identity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the request to use the previous authority documents but as I have said I think the 
request for the power of attorney and supporting identity documents is reasonable. I cant 
direct AEGON to accept historic documents and oral authority that it said werent acceptable 
at the time or were not noted.
I note the suggestion of various conditions and requirements to be put in a side. However, I 
feel that AEGONs obligations to make the payments in my direction are clear and failure to 
make payment can be enforced by Mrs T if she accepts my final decision. I dont therefore 
think it is necessary to impose detailed conditions about how the outcome is achieved.
With respect to use of original papers signed by Mrs T, it seems that new papers may be 
needed as a different annuity provider may be used and over a year has elapsed since they 
were issued so they may be out of date. So, I dont feel it is reasonable to impose a 
condition that they should be used.
I note the issue of discrimination, but while Mrs T has highlighted the law in this area, she 
hasnt specified how she felt this might apply to her. I have already said that I thought the 
request for evidence of authority and identity were in my view reasonable.Finally, I note that Mrs Ts son has provided the power of attorney and supporting identity 
documents in the required form and AEGON has confirmed it can now proceed with the 
requirements to put the annuity in place.
So, for the reasons given I havent changed my mind. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given I will uphold this complaint and direct AEGON to put things right on 
the basis set out in my provisional decision
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON
should pay Mrs T the following: -
1. The arrears of annual pension payments due under her spouses annuity,
2.  Interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date it should
have been paid each month to the date of actual payment.
3. £750.00 in respect of distress and inconvenience.
4. AEGON should issue a written apology to Mrs T for its handling of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman