DRN-2918261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mishandled a claim on their 
motor insurance policy.
There are several parties involved but for the purpose of this report I shall only refer to Aviva.
What happened
In September 2018, whilst Mrs A was driving she was involved in a motor vehicle accident 
with another vehicle. 
Mr and Mrs A reported this to both their insurance broker and Aviva. Mrs A said that the fault 
of the accident was that of the third party. The third party said it was Mrs As fault.
A solicitor appointed by their broker looked in to the case and it suggested that a 50/50 
share of the blame for the accident was recorded but Mr and Mrs A declined this suggestion. 
They heard no more about it.
When their motor insurance policy was due for renewal they received a quote from Aviva 
and as they always did they shopped around before accepting. A better and cheaper deal 
was obtained with another insurer and so they accepted and paid for it.
Two weeks after it had been accepted and paid for, Mr and Mrs A were contacted by their 
new insurer to say that when it had checked their details on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database it had identified a difference in the details they had supplied. 
There was a record of an at fault claim relating to the accident in September 2018.
The new insurer said that due to the claim there would be an increased premium of £221.72.
 
Mr and Mrs A said they were not aware that a fault claim had been placed against their 
record. Mr and Mrs A complained to Aviva that it had incorrectly, and without their 
knowledge, recorded a fault claim, which resulted in a higher premium from their new 
insurer. And that it will also have an ongoing effect on the cost of their motor insurance for 
the next three years. 
They want Aviva to remove this information from CUE and compensate them for the financial 
loss that they have suffered.
Aviva said that with the evidence that was available about the accident that it was correct to 
concede liability in full, but it accepted that it failed to contact and update Mr and Mrs A 
about this decision and so offered £200 compensation for the failure in its communication. 
As Mr and Mrs A were not happy with Aviva, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and did not uphold their complaint as she didnt 
believe that Aviva had been unfair in recording the claim as a fault claim.
As Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Deciding on fault
Its important that I make it clear that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr and Mrs As policy 
allows Aviva to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mrs As consent to 
decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mrs A doesnt agree with. But 
Ill look to see that its done so reasonably. 
When Mrs A reported the accident she advised Aviva that she did not want to progress a 
claim until the other person involved accepted liability.
A solicitor was appointed by Mr and Mrs As insurance broker to investigate all the facts but 
unfortunately there were no witnesses to or any CCTV footage of the accident. The third 
party did not accept liabilty and said that Mrs A was at fault.
During the investigation by the solicitors, Aviva made a payment for the value of Mr and Mrs 
As vehicle minus the excess which was accepted by them.
In November 2019 the solicitors acting on behalf of Mrs A advised Aviva that it was closing 
its files as Mrs A had said she didnt want to proceed with a split liability claim as it had 
advised. 
In order to record a non- fault claim Aviva need to be able to recover all of its costs so it 
decided that with the evidence it had it would concede liability in full.
Aviva admit that at the point it decided to concede liability it should have called Mr and Mrs A 
and confirmed its decision to do this. Aviva accepts that it was its mistake that caused Mr 
and Mrs A to misrepresent their situation to their new insurer. 
Aviva offered £200 compensation for the failure in communication and I consider that this is 
a fair amount, and this should be paid to Mr and Mrs A now.
Increased premiums
Mr and Mrs A say they were charged a surcharge by their new insurer due to the claim 
recorded by Aviva, but it is an increased motor insurance premium rather than a surcharge. 
Even though Aviva forgot to tell Mr and Mrs A what it had done, the fault claim still had to 
be recorded by it on CUE, as it didnt recover its costs. All motor insurers must abide by 
requirements for the timely and accurate supply of data. 
I imagine that Mr and Mrs A will have been very frustrated with Avivas lack of 
communication as it meant they unintentionally provided incorrect information to their new 
insurer that resulted in a lower quote being provided and accepted. But when the new 
insurer found out about the fault claim it meant that its risk rating increased and their premium increased. I havent found that this was affected by Avivas poor communication 
and so I dont require Aviva to do anything further about this.
Therefore, for the reasons I explain above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I 
consider that the £200 compensation offered to them for failure in communication is fair. This 
should be paid to them now if not already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman