DRN-2954503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited have unfairly increased 
their premiums when renewing their motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 22 February 2020 Mr and Mrs G renewed their policy through a broker with Markerstudy 
for a premium of around £900. The policy was due to renew on 22 February 2021.
On 22 September 2020 Mr and Mrs G were involved in an accident, which they reported to 
their insurer the same day. Mr and Mrs G said they were at fault for the accident and having 
reviewed matters Markerstudy agreed with this  and said theyd need to deal with any 
claims made against their policy. 
On 1 December 2020 Mr and Mrs G asked their broker for a quote following a change of car 
 and were told the premium cost would be nearly £3,000. The broker explained this is 
because the claim from 22 September 2020 was still showing as open. The broker explained 
a number of factors can affect how much the premiums are. 
Markerstudy said itd confirmed the 22 September 2020 accident was a fault one, and it 
needed to keep the claim open for at least six months in order for the other party to present 
a claim for damage to their vehicle. Markerstudy said itd closed the claim down on 
23 April 2021  but noted Mr and Mrs G hadnt renewed with it. Markerstudy added any open 
claim has an impact on premiums, which is industry standard and not something it could 
change. It added now the claim is closed, and the no claims bonus hasnt been affected, 
Mr and Mrs G could update their new insurer who could recalculate their premium if itd been 
affected as a result of the claim being open. 
Mr and Mrs G werent prepared to accept this  they said theyd paid £1,500 for the car, so 
didnt see why they should pay £3,000 to insure it. It was also established there was another 
claim which influenced the overall premium charge.
Unhappy with all this information, Mr and Mrs G asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so and found overall Markerstudy had treated them fairly  so wouldnt be 
upholding the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with this. They felt Markerstudy had effectively banned them from 
driving and made Mr G sell his car at a loss because of their increased premiums. As they 
didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think theres two key issues that need to be addressed in this complaint  the pricing of 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy, and the status of the September 2020 claim.
Pricing of Mr and Mrs Gs policy
Insurers rate risk, and that determines how likely they think it is that a claim is going to be 
made  and then base the premiums theyre prepared to offer on that. This process is down 
to each insurer to decide and isnt something our service can interfere with. But what we can 
do is look at whether Markerstudy have treated Mr and Mrs G the same as itd have treated 
any other policyholders in the same situation.
Markerstudy provided their pricing information to our service. This is confidential, so I cant 
share it, but I have reviewed it in detail. Having done so, Im satisfied the way Markerstudy 
have calculated Mr and Mrs Gs premiums is fair  so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further on this issue.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Gs point about their car only costing £1,500, so why would they 
pay twice that to insure it. I can understand that argument  but Markerstudy may have to 
pay out for claims made by other parties if, for example, Mr or Mrs G were involved in a fault 
claim. The costs in that situation could be significantly higher  so it isnt just about how 
much their own car costs, its about the overall risk presented to Markerstudy. 
The status of the September 2020 claim
Mr and Mrs G also had concerns about Markerstudy recording the claim as an open fault 
claim for so long.
I can understand why that might feel unfair, but as Markerstudy said this is standard practice 
in the insurance industry. Had the other party got in touch, then the matter could have been 
resolved  but unfortunately they didnt. So, I dont think Markerstudy have done anything 
wrong in leaving the claim open.
I also note based on the information provided Markerstudy felt any claim made would be a 
fault claim  so I cant say its done anything wrong in putting it down as an open fault claim 
either.
The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) is where insurers will record information 
about claims made  and the details of some of those claims. In Mr and Mrs Gs case Ive 
seen the information showing theyve now recorded the claim as notification only as no 
other party has got in touch. This is as Id expect  and Markerstudy have given Mr and 
Mrs G the correct information by saying if theyd taken out insurance elsewhere, then they 
could speak to their new insurer who may recalculate their premiums.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs G have said theyve not done that, because they feel Markerstudy 
have made them sell their car. But for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied theyve 
acted fairly. Because of that, I wont be telling Markerstudy to take any further action.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman