DRN-2593929
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined their 
home insurance claims.
What happened
Mrs and Mr J made claims under their RSA home insurance policy for damage to their 
retaining wall and patio. The claims were originally considered under storm damage and 
RSA appointed surveyors, Company A, to carry out an inspection.
Company A concluded storm conditions werent present at the time the claims were made 
and that the damage wasnt consistent with a one-off insurable event, but rather had 
happened over time and was the result of a gradually operating cause. Company A also 
pointed to faulty workmanship being a factor. RSA therefore declined the claims for storm 
damage. And while it noted Mrs and Mr J also had accidental damage cover on their policy, 
it said this excluded damage caused by wear and tear or faulty workmanship  which it was 
persuaded had been identified by Company A. So it declined the claims.
Mrs and Mr J said the damage was most likely due to landslip  which is covered under the 
policy. RSA said that if Mrs and Mr J could provide it with a report from its own contractors 
evidencing the cause of damage, it would reconsider its position regarding cover available 
under the landslip part of the policy. Mrs and Mr J appointed their own surveyor and 
provided RSA with their report, asking it to reconsider the claims. 
RSA reviewed the report but maintained its position. It said that under the landslip section of 
the policy, cover was excluded for garden walls and patios unless it accepts a claim for 
subsidence, heave or landslip damage to the Home also. As no claim had been made or 
accepted for this type of damage to the home, it said the claims were still declined under this 
section.
Mrs and Mr J brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the matter and 
agreed with RSA the claims werent covered under storm or accidental damage. And he was 
satisfied the exclusion RSA was seeking to rely on under the landslip section of the policy 
was fair. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr J disagreed, saying there didnt appear to be an exclusion for garden walls and 
patios in the policy schedule for subsidence, heave and landslip, so they thought the claims 
should be covered. And that for RSA to fairly dismiss the claims, further investigations would 
need to take place. The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Mrs and Mr J dont dispute RSAs decision regarding the storm and 
accidental damage cover. But they think their claims should be covered under the landslip 
section of the policy. So this is what Ill focus on in this final decision. 
Ill start by saying that in general, buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or 
rebuilding the insured property if its damaged or destroyed due to a type of unforeseen 
event  often referred to as an insured peril. Mrs and Mr J think the damage theyre 
claiming for is the result of landslip. And while policy cover is available for this peril, the onus 
is on Mrs and Mr J to demonstrate its occurred and then any claim considered in relation to 
this will also be subject to certain terms, conditions and exclusions. So Ive considered the 
report Mrs and Mr J have provided to RSA which they think demonstrates an insured peril 
has occurred.
The report lists several possibilities of why the damage to the wall may have occurred, 
mainly referencing the potential of foundation size, inadequate ground conditions and the 
proximity of nearby trees. With regards to the patio damage, it references inadequate 
compaction of the hardcore beneath the concrete or poor ground conditions. But it doesnt 
give a definitive opinion on the most likely cause of the damage, instead citing that further 
intrusive site investigations would need to take place to determine the exact cause. So, while 
I acknowledge the report talks about a range of possible causes, Im not persuaded that it 
demonstrates that an insured peril has taken place for the purposes of this policy.
On receipt of this report, RSA declined to carry out any further investigation or to pay the 
claims. This is because it says page 27 of the policy booklet states that Mrs and Mr Js 
buildings are covered for Subsidence or heave of the land that the Buildings stand on, or 
landslip. But this excludes - Damage to swimming pools, ornamental ponds and fountains, 
hard courts, terraces, patios, drives, footpaths, walls, gates, fences, hedges or fixed tanks 
providing fuel to the Home, unless We also accept a claim for subsidence, heave or landslip 
damage to the Home.
Home is defined in the policy as  The house or flat and its garages and outbuildings, used 
only for domestic purposes. And as I understand it, no claim has been accepted under the 
policy for damage of this nature to Mrs and Mr Js home. So as the policy terms clearly state 
the patio and wall arent covered for landslip without this, Im persuaded RSA has fairly 
declined the claims made under this section of the policy based on the information available 
to it.
If Mrs and Mr J think their home is suffering from subsidence, heave or landslip, as set out 
above, the onus is on them to demonstrate that such a peril has occurred. They can then 
make a claim to RSA for this if they wish, and in doing so, Id expect RSA to consider any 
claims fairly in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. But at this stage, I dont think 
RSA needs to do anything further.
RSA has said it will reimburse Mrs and Mr J for an independent report cost, provided its 
reasonable, if it later decides to accept the claims based on any new evidence presented to 
it. Id expect RSA to honour this offer if Mrs and Mr J decide to get any further conclusive 
reports carried out that in turn changes the outcome of the claims to being accepted and 
covered.
Ive considered all of Mrs and Mr Js comments, including the fact they think RSA is relying 
on an old policy document when quoting the cover and exclusions. But from what Ive seen, I 
agree with the investigator that the policy document RSA relied on in this case is relevant to 
the policy and claim period in question. So, these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman