DRN-4304810
The complaint
Ms P complains that ALD Automotive Limited mishandled the extension of a personal 
contract hire agreement she held with it in respect of a car.
Although Ms P has been assisted in both making her complaint to ALD and to this service, 
Ill refer to anything thats been said on her behalf as if Ms P had said it herself.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms P entered into a three-year personal contract hire agreement for a new car 
with ALD. Ms P also entered into a maintenance agreement for the car which was added to 
the monthly rentals making a total amount of £264.06 to be paid each month. 
In January 2022 Ms P contacted ALD and enquired about extending the agreement for a 
further 12 months as she said she was awaiting the delivery of a new car. ALD says it 
explained to Ms P that any modification to the contract, if agreed, would commence one 
month after the rescheduling quotation had been signed and returned. A rescheduling quote 
was sent to her that same month. However, this quote wasnt signed and returned by Ms P 
and so expired meaning the hire agreement remained unchanged.
In March 2022 Ms P contacted ALD and asked it to provide another rescheduling quote this 
time for an 11-month extension from the expiry date of the original contract but without the 
maintenance agreement being included. ALD sent her an amended quote with a starting 
date of the end of April 2022 to run to the end of June 2023. The monthly cost was £218. 
The accompanying email from ALD stated that if the quote for a non-maintained car (i.e. 
the maintenance agreement was cancelled and removed) was accepted by Ms P, then a 
maintenance agreement couldnt be re-added at any point. Ms P didnt sign and return this 
quote either before its expiry date. The original hire agreement therefore remained 
unchanged.
At the end of May 2022, Ms P requested a new quotation to extend the hire period. The 
agent she spoke to on behalf of ALD wrongly informed her that the contract couldnt be 
altered due to the contract being close to ending. However, on review, ALD apologised to Ms 
P for this error and said it would honour the rescheduling quote it had sent her in March 
2022 with the maintenance charge removed and a monthly payment of £218 for the duration 
of the extension. A rescheduling quote in those terms was sent to Ms P which was to 
commence at the beginning of July 2022.  
Ms P signed and returned this rescheduling quote to ALD but requested that the 
maintenance term remain in place until the end of July 2022 as the car had been booked in 
for both a service and its MOT that month. The removal of the maintenance agreement 
meant these costs wouldnt now be covered as the car would be on a non-maintained 
contract for July.
ALD says it couldnt accept this signed agreement with an alteration as to when the 
maintenance term would be removed because any change had to be applied from the start 
of the modified agreement. ALD advised Ms P that if this reschedule quote was accepted 
then the maintenance agreement would end in July 2022. It said that instead, she should 
contact it during July and seek another rescheduling quote to extend the hire agreement for 
12 months from the start of August 2022. Ms P requested a new quote with a nine-month 
extension from August 2022. This was prepared and sent to her at the start of July. This 
rescheduling quote wasnt signed and returned.
As the signed rescheduling quote from June 2022 couldnt be accepted, ALDs computer 
system wrongly generated an invoice for £2,376.54 which was sent to Ms P. This was an 
error and later cancelled.
ALD says that without a signed agreement in place to extend the hire agreement, it was 
unable to extend the current contract with Ms P. And as the car was not then returned at the 
end of July 2022, Ms Ps account automatically went into late charges which were around 
£322pm.
Ms P continued to use the car, but no payments to ALD were made. Arrears notices and 
default notices were sent to Ms P who complained to ALD about the monthly charges and its 
handling of the request to extend the agreement. She said it had accepted the agreement 
sent back to it in June 2022 but no request for payment had been made to her. Ms P said 
she found the arrears letters and default notices distressing.
In March 2023, ALD partially upheld Ms Ps complaint and paid her £100 compensation for 
providing her with the wrong information in June 2022, when she had been told she couldnt 
vary the agreement and also for incorrectly sending her the invoice for £2,376.54. But it said 
that the late hire charges of £2,259.51 stood and should be paid and that the car should be 
handed back to stop further charges being incurred.
In January 2023, Ms P made a complaint to this service and at the end of March 2023 she 
made arrangements to return the car. Ms P said it would be fair for all of the outstanding hire 
charges on her account to be waived by ALD and for her to receive compensation of £654 to 
recognise that the car had been returned three months earlier than the contract term.
Ms P was also upset to receive an invoice from ALD for charges relating to April 2022 and 
raised that with it. ALD explained that due to the timing of the car being returned at the end 
of March, the April invoice had already been generated and sent but agreed to credit that 
amount back to her account. It also offered to honour the rental payments of £218pm as per 
the June quote and as a gesture of goodwill to credit her account with a further £1000. This 
left a balance of £823.82 to pay.
Ms P said she wanted her complaint to continue as she didnt think this offer by ALD was 
sufficient. She said all the outstanding charges should be waived and she should receive 
compensation for the way ALD had handled this matter. However, our investigator didnt 
recommend that ALD should do more and said she thought this offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator said she thought it was reasonable that ALD hadnt accepted the signed 
rescheduling quote in June 2022 from Ms P because of the change she wanted in respect of 
the maintenance term. Ms P hadnt then signed and returned the new quote that had been 
sent to her in July.
As Ms P had kept the car until March 2023 and ALD had offered to honour the terms of the 
June rescheduling quote, then our investigator said this was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms P disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said it was unreasonable for ALD not 
to have accepted the signed rescheduling quote shed returned in June 2022 as the email that had accompanied it from ALD had said it would be honoured upon her signing it. She 
said there had been no stipulations or clauses as to the maintenance agreement.
Ms P also said it was unfair not to have accepted this extension to the contract as requested 
by her in June 2022 because that the maintenance and MOT of the car was subject to an 
overriding agreement between the manufacturer and ALD. And that the maintenance term, 
which was billed separately, could be cancelled at any time. She said she would be happy to 
accept the removal of the outstanding charges but receive no compensation as a 
compromise.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the personal hire agreement there is provision for the customer to request a variation 
of the agreements term although ALD is not under an obligation to agree to do so. Any 
variation must be in writing and agreed by both parties.
When Ms P entered into the original hire agreement, she also chose to take out a 
maintenance agreement for the car for an additional monthly fee which was added to the 
total monthly rental cost. These agreements ran together, however, Ive seen that the 
maintenance agreement could be cancelled and if it was it couldnt then be reinstated. 
Ms P first raised extending the hire agreement in January 2022 and the process ALD follows 
is to generate a rescheduling quote as to the cost of that extension. The quotes will vary 
depending on the market conditions at the time. So, each quote has a time limit in which it 
must be accepted otherwise it will expire. If the quote provided by ALD is acceptable to the 
customer, then they sign it, return it to ALD and it becomes the modifying agreement for the 
original contract. The new term/s will then apply from the following month after the quote has 
been signed. 
Ms P didnt sign and return the quotes she received from ALD in January and March 2022 
and they duly expired. She asked again about extending the term in May 2022. ALD accepts 
that at first, she was given the wrong information about not being able to do so and has 
apologised for that. But a new quote was then generated in June 2022 although this time 
without the maintenance agreement element as per Ms Ps request. 
However, by modifying the hire agreement in July 2022 and changing the car from 
maintained to non-maintained would mean that the pre-booked service and MOT due to be 
carried out that month would no longer be covered by the maintenance agreement because 
it would no longer exist. Ive seen that Ms P then requested that the rescheduling quote she 
had signed be altered to allow the maintenance agreement to run until the end of the month. 
ALD has explained it wasnt able to accommodate that request and Ive seen that it did notify 
Ms P of the impact of changing the agreement from a maintained car to a non-maintained in 
July. It also recommended that she seek another quote from it in July 2022 which would 
resolve this issue. Ive seen that Ms P followed this advice by requesting another 
rescheduling quote later on although she didnt then sign and return it. I dont know why Ms 
P didnt take this action, but I think its reasonable to say that she should have been aware 
that an amendment to the June 2022 quote couldnt be accepted by ALD. And that for her to 
achieve what she wanted regarding the maintenance agreement this required another later 
quote to be signed so that the extension kicked in at the end of July 2022.Ive seen that Ms P says ALD should have accepted the rescheduling quote she had signed 
in June 2022 as the modifying agreement and that it has acted unreasonably but not doing 
so. But I disagree. This quote would have changed the contract from being a maintained car 
to a non-maintained one from July 2022 because that was what had been quoted for at the 
request of Ms P. But as Ms P had then sought to alter that, the quote she signed in June 
2022 no longer applied. 
I also dont think that ALDs promise of honouring the quote once signed as set out in the 
email that accompanied this June quote applied if the terms were then altered by Ms P. And 
while I appreciate the maintenance contract can be removed separately this is still a change 
and has an impact on the rental costs. And Im not surprised that ALD isnt able to offer a 
modified agreement that has a term ending at a different time to other terms and conditions. 
I also dont think that just because the accompanying email from ALD didnt specifically state 
that Ms P couldnt alter the terms of the quote provided meant she could and ALD would be 
bound to accept that.
Ms P has said there is an overriding agreement between the manufacturer and ALD for the 
maintenance and MOT of the vehicle, but I havent seen any evidence of any such 
agreement. Its the maintenance agreement that a customer can opt to take out and which is 
added to the monthly rental and paid for by them that covers these costs. 
So, I dont think ALD has acted unreasonably here, it was unable to accept the signed June 
2022 rescheduling quote and provided her, at her request, with another quote that would 
have extended the agreements term from the beginning of August 2022 without the 
maintenance agreement in place as she wanted. And as Ms P didnt sign and return that 
quote, then, as per the terms and conditions, ALD wasnt able to extend the contract when it 
ended in July 2022.
As the hire agreement hadnt been extended, I dont agree with Ms P that it had ended three 
months early when she handed the car back meaning that compensation for loss of use is 
due. I dont think there was an obligation on ALD to provide the car to Ms P up until July 
2023.
I dont know exactly what happened after the rental agreement ended as to why the arrears 
built up as they did on Ms Ps account or why there was a gap in the parties speaking with 
each other. Ive seen Ms P says she wasnt asked to make payments for the car. So, it 
appears that communication between ALD and Ms P had broken down. However, Ive seen 
that ALD has on review, reduced the outstanding balance on Ms Ps account to £823.82 by 
charging the monthly rentals that were quoted in June 2022 from August until the car was 
returned and in addition has removed a further £1,000 from the outstanding amount. As I 
wouldnt have asked ALD to do more than it already has even if I had found its actions were 
at fault over this (and I make no such finding) I therefore dont need to look into this further. I 
think that ALDs actions of reducing the balance on this account are fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and I m not asking it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman