DRN-4407908
The complaint
Mr D is represented by a claims management company, which has made various arguments 
on his behalf. For simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions made on Mr Ds behalf as being from 
Mr D.
Mr D has complained about a transfer from his Zurich Assurance Limited personal pension 
to a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) in 2014. 
The transfer enabled the pension funds to be invested, through membership of a company, 
in an overseas commercial property development. My understanding is Mr Ds investment 
did initially provide some returns, but these were much lower than expected and ceased at 
the end of 2019. Any ongoing value is not realisable as theres no liquid market for the 
investment. 
Mr D thinks his money is lost and says Zurich should have done more to protect him and to 
warn him about the potential dangers of transferring his pension.
What happened
Mr D had a group personal pension plan with Zurich. It was connected to his old employer, 
whod been contributing to it up until his employment ended around March 2013. In June 
2014, Mr D asked Zurich to transfer this pension to a newly established SSAS. 
At the time, he was 51 and employed as a plant fitter. He had two other pensions: one hed 
very recently opened with his new (and current) employer; and another personal pension 
held with another provider. Mr D says hed never held any other investments.
A SSAS is a type of occupational pension, in which the members are also trustees and 
therefore take responsibility for operating the scheme. They are typically marketed at 
companies and partnerships seeking to create an occupational pension for a small group of 
directors and/or senior executives, so it was an unusual arrangement for someone in Mr Ds 
circumstances. SSASs are not regulated in the same way as personal pensions, with far 
fewer protections. They can hold a wider range of investments and assets. As an 
occupational pension, a SSAS must be sponsored by an employer company. Normally (and 
logically) that would be a company employing the scheme members or providing them with 
an income, although this wasnt a requirement.  The SSASs assets must be held and 
invested by a trustee for the benefit of its members.
Mr D opened the SSAS in June 2014. He was the sole trustee and member. The sponsoring 
company for the SSAS didnt employ him or provide him any income. It was a dormant 
company established six months earlier, registered at Mr Ds home address, and he was its 
sole director and shareholder. It never traded. The company seems to have existed only to 
allow the SSAS to be opened. This suggests Mr D was planning to open a SSAS from as 
early as December 2013.
Zurich completed the transfer in September 2014. It transferred £28,968 from Mr Ds 
personal pension into the SSAS. Mr D then used £25,000 of this to invest in a hotel resort 
under construction in Cape Verde, owned and operated by The Resort Group. The 
investment was made by purchasing a fractional membership in a UK company limited by 
guarantee which had a promissory agreement with the developer to buy an apartment in the 
resort once construction was finished. Ill call this the TRG investment. The TRG 
investment was unregulated and high risk. Mr D wouldnt have been allowed to hold this in 
his personal pension, but it was permitted in the SSAS.
As I shall explain in more detail below, several of the companies which helped Mr D set up 
the SSAS had links with The Resort Group. It would seem that they worked together with the 
aim of securing Mr Ds investment in the TRG investment.
The TRG investment has proven to be illiquid and incapable of sale on the open market. 
Mr D thinks Zurich should have spotted warning signs that he might have been the victim of 
a scam and warned him before he went ahead. 
Mr Ds recollections about what happened
Mr D was in contact with several different firms. The details hes provided about who did 
what have changed over time and havent always been consistent. I dont doubt Mr Ds 
honesty: the events took place many years ago and he appears to be doing his best to piece 
things together from the little he does remember in light of information he has to hand. 
Broadly, what he does consistently remember is that:
In 2013, he was cold called by someone who asked him about his pension 
arrangements and offered him a free pension review.
This led to a visit in his home to talk about his pension arrangements.
He was told it would be a good idea to transfer his Zurich pension into a SSAS so he 
could invest in a hotel development in Cape Verde. He was told this arrangement 
would outperform his existing Zurich pension.
In effect, he submits he received a personal recommendation to transfer his Zurich pension 
into a SSAS. Advice of that nature was (and remains) regulated by the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Only someone authorised to do so by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is permitted to give regulated financial advice unless they have a specific 
exemption under FSMA.
Who did what?
Mr D is uncertain about whom he spoke to and when. But the available documentation 
relating to the transfer sheds some light on who was involved and what role they played:
Moneywise Financial Advisers Ltd. This firm is now dissolved, but at the time it was 
authorised by the FCA to provide regulated financial advice about pensions. Mr D 
signed a form on 8 May 2013 giving Moneywise authority to obtain information about 
his pension. Moneywise requested the information and a pension transfer pack from 
Zurich on 17 May 2013. The letter from Moneywise shows it was operating from an 
address in Leicester (even though its head office and the registered correspondence 
address for its only director were in Scotland). Zurich replied to the Leicester 
address with details of Mr Ds pension and a transfer form on 19 June 2013. On 
8 January 2014, Zurich again sent details of Mr Ds pension with a transfer form to 
Moneywise at the Leicester address. Zurich has no record of a second information 
request from Moneywise, so its not clear what prompted it to write to Moneywise again. No further documentation Ive seen refers to Moneywise and Mr D says he 
has no recollection of ever speaking with anyone from Moneywise.
Consumer Money Matters Limited (CMM). This firm is now dissolved, but at the time 
it was an introducer firm, which sometimes (although not on this occasion) acted as 
an appointed representative for FCA regulated firms for mortgage and insurance 
services. It was not authorised to provide regulated financial advice. CMMs 
registered and operating address was the same Leicester address Moneywise had 
used seven months earlier. On 9 December 2013, Mr D signed a form giving CMM 
authority to obtain information about his pension. This form included an Enquiry 
Number and Consultant ID which matched those also used on the earlier Moneywise 
form. CMM requested pension information and a transfer pack from Zurich on 
13 December 2013. Zurich replied to CMM on 14 January 2014, enclosing a pension 
transfer form and details of Mr Ds pension. 
Use of the same Leicester address, enquiry number and consultant ID suggests 
Moneywise and CMM were connected. Ill consider the nature of that connection 
later in this decision.
DLW Company Formation Services Ltd (DLW). DLW was an agent who, on 
10 December 2013, set up the new limited company Mr D later used to sponsor his 
SSAS. DLW wasnt authorised to provide regulated financial advice. As noted below, 
DLW had connections to The Resort Group and Choices Wealth Limited.
Choices Wealth Limited (CWL). This firm is now dissolved, but in 2014 it described 
its main activity as overseas property investment sales. It wasnt authorised to 
provide regulated financial advice. On 19 May 2014, a representative from CWL 
witnessed the identification documents used by Mr D to set up the SSAS. The same 
representative witnessed him sign further documents in connection with the SSAS 
on 17 June 2014. CWL was only incorporated on 9 April 2014, but one of its 
directors at the time had been a director of DLW since July 2013. This director had 
links to The Resort Group. At least one other director appointed later in 2014 had 
links with both DLW and The Resort Group. I therefore think CWL (along with DLW) 
probably had an interest in securing funds for The Resort Group and was helping 
Mr D  possibly encouraging him  to set up the SSAS for that reason. 
DLWs connection to CWL and The Resort Group is a further indication that the 
formation of Mr Ds limited company in December 2013 was probably always 
intended to facilitate a SSAS, with the ultimate aim of allowing the TRG investment. 
It therefore appears that Mr Ds initial decision to open a SSAS was made in 
anticipation of the TRG investment and came before CWLs incorporation, so before 
CWL could have become involved.
Cantwell Grove Limited (CGL). CGL is a provider of unregulated SSAS 
administration services. Mr Ds SSAS was arranged with CGL, and it was CGL who 
wrote to Zurich (on 19 June 2014) to request the transfer of Mr Ds pension into the 
SSAS. Its notable that promotional material published by CGL (provided in this case 
by Mr Ds representative) included a CV for its founder and sole director which 
states he was an existing shareholder and former non-executive director of The 
Resort Group. CGL wasnt authorised to provide regulated financial advice.
Broadwood Assets. This company was appointed by CGL to provide Mr D with 
advice under section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, a provision which requires a 
SSAS trustee to take and consider appropriate advice on whether a proposed investment is satisfactory for the aims of the scheme. Broadwood Assets provided 
this advice to Mr D in a letter dated 21 August 2014. The letter explained that the 
scope of its advice was limited to this and that it hadnt advised him on the 
establishment of his SSAS. It said the nature of the advice it did provide wasnt 
regulated under FSMA. Broadwood Assets wasnt authorised to provide regulated 
financial advice.
When CGL requested the pension transfer from Zurich, it included documentation 
that stated Mr D was taking appropriate advice under section 36 of the Pensions Act 
1995 from a firm called Sequence Financial Management Ltd. CGL has since told us 
Sequence was the firm it had originally expected to provide Mr D with the required 
section 36 advice, which is why Sequence is named in the document sent to Zurich. 
But CGL says as things turned out Sequence wasnt available, and it was 
Broadwood Assets that actually provided the section 36 advice. Theres no mention 
of Sequence in any of the other paperwork and Mr D doesnt recall ever dealing with 
that firm. So, I accept it was Broadwood Assets that was involved here, and 
Sequence played no part.
The transfer request, and the warnings Mr D received about it
CGL wrote to Zurich on 19 June 2014, requesting the transfer of Mr Ds pension into the 
SSAS. This letter included information to show Zurich that Mr D was not trying to access his 
pension in an unauthorised way. Unauthorised access to pension funds (before the minimum 
retirement age of 55, for instance) is referred to in the industry as pension liberation. It can 
have serious consequences, including punitive tax charges and exposing ones pension 
savings to scams. CGL provided Zurich with:
a declaration by Mr D that CGL had explained pension liberation to him and the risks 
of transferring his pension;
confirmation from Mr D that he hadnt been offered any cash incentive to transfer nor 
was he trying to access his retirement benefits before the age of 55; 
confirmation from CGL that it had warned Mr D about pension liberation and provided 
him with a copy of a leaflet (referred to as the Scorpion leaflet) produced by The 
Pensions Regulator (TPR) which warned about pension liberation;
confirmation from Mr D that hed understood the warning about pension liberation.
CGLs letter to Zurich also included:
a letter from HMRC confirming the SSAS was a registered scheme;
the scheme trust deed; and
a Q&A document stating that, as required under s36 of the Pensions Act 1996, the 
trustee (i.e. Mr D) was taking appropriate advice about whether the proposed 
investments were satisfactory for the schemes aims, from an FCA authorised firm 
called Sequence Financial Management Ltd. (We now know this was wrong and, in 
fact, Mr D took this advice from Broadwood Assets instead.) Zurich wrote to Mr D in response on 21 July 2014. It explained it had the paperwork from 
CGL but needed to check with HMRC that the scheme he wanted to transfer into was still 
registered. Specifically, it said: 
Before we can proceed with any transfer payment we need to be satisfied that HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) would consider it to be an authorised payment in 
accordance with Section 169 of the Financial Act 2004. An unregulated payment 
would result in a considerable tax charge (known as an unregulated charge) for you 
and possibly for us.
In order to combat pension liberation activity HMRC is increasingly taking firm action 
in applying tax charges wherever it concludes there has been an abuse of pension 
tax relief.
The letter went on to explain that the pensions industry is acting cautiously and making 
more checks before proceeding with (or declining) transfer requests as a result of increased 
liberation activity. It explained it would likely take a few months for HMRC to respond. And:
Confirmation that we are able to transfer your pension to the scheme you have 
chosen should not be taken as any form of endorsement by us (or HMRC) of the 
receiving scheme or product. You should still carry out your own checks before 
satisfying yourself that the proposed transfer is appropriate for you and your 
pensions.
If you have not yet been advised regarding your proposed transfer by a UK regulated 
financial adviser specialising in pensions, we strongly recommend that you now 
obtain such regulated advice.
If you wish to discuss your pension with an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) or 
would like information about the IFAs nearest to you, you can contact the IFA trade 
body, IFA Promotion Limited via their website: http://www.unbiased.co.uk/, by email: 
ifacontact@unbiased.co.uk or by telephone: 0330 303 0025.
You can check if a financial adviser is regulated with the relevant authority, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) by checking the Financial Service Register which 
is hosted on the FCAs website ( http://www.fca/org.uk) at 
http://www.fca.gov.uk/register/home.do.
Shortly after this, on 21 August 2014, Mr D received the letter from Broadwood Assets 
providing him with advice under s36 of the Pensions Act 1995. This letter made it clear that 
Broadwood Assets was not a regulated financial adviser, and it wasnt advising him in his 
personal capacity but rather advising him in his role as trustee. It went on to say the TRG 
investment was a legitimate, credible and substantive arrangement that didnt facilitate 
pension liberation and was suitable to be held in a SSAS. But it also warned Mr D that the 
investment was risky and suitable only for more adventurous investors, pointing out that if he 
preferred advice on the suitability of the investment for him personally, he should seek 
regulated financial advice from an independent financial adviser.
Zurich completed the transfer on 17 September 2014.
Zurichs response to the complaint
Zurich says it followed the relevant guidance and carried out appropriate checks before 
transferring Mr Ds pension. It pointed to the documentation Mr D had signed at the time to confirm he was aware of the risks of pension liberation. It believes that Mr D wouldnt have 
changed his mind about transferring even if Zurich had done more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 September 2023, which explained why I felt the 
complaint should be upheld. In response, Mr D said he had no further comment. Zurich 
disagreed with my findings and provided extensive reasons in a letter dated 
16 October 2023, though it did not provide any new evidence I hadnt already considered.
I have now reconsidered all of the evidence and arguments from the outset to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In accordance with the 
requirements in DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, Ive taken into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules; guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as in my provisional 
decision, and for substantially the same reasons  which I set out below.
Both sides have provided a large amount of information in connection with this complaint. 
Please be assured that Ive read and reconsidered the whole file  including all of the 
additional submissions made by Zurich on 16 October 2023  but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is most relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach my decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment Zurich was 
operating in at the time with regards to pension transfer requests, as well as any rules and 
guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pensions Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another personal 
or occupational pension scheme (in this case, a SSAS).
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) warned 
consumers about the dangers of pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and 
websites promoting transfers to schemes that invest money overseas to avoid paying 
UK tax and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, 
including as a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these 
transactions, the fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The 
FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and The Pensions Regulator (TPR) to find 
out more information and encouraged affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or 
TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes that were used for liberation.In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation, and remind scheme trustees of their duties to members, rather than 
introduce any specific new steps for transferring schemes to follow. The warnings 
highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged people 
to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR launched its Scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign 
was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance to scheme 
administrators on dealing with transfer requests in order to help prevent liberation 
activity happening. The FSA endorsed the guidance. And it was updated several times 
after it was first launched. I cover the Scorpion campaign in more detail below. 
Whilst Zurich was processing Mr Ds transfer, the FCA also started to voice concerns 
about the different types of pension arrangements that were being used to facilitate 
pensions scams. In an announcement entitled Protect Your Pension Pot published in 
August 2014 the FCA warned about transfers into new SIPPs and SSASs and about 
investing in unregulated and unusual investments such as overseas property, as 
potential scams.
Personal pension providers are not regulated by TPR. Theyre regulated by the FCA. 
Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the FSA. As such, 
theyre subject to the Handbook and, under that, to the Principles for Businesses and to 
the Conduct Of Business Sourcebook (COBS). There have never been any specific 
FSA/FCA rules governing pension transfers, but the following have particular relevance 
to transfer requests: 
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly;
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading; 
COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best interests rule), which states that a firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client.
The Scorpion campaign
Overview
As I have said above, the Scorpion campaign was launched in February 2013 and the 
guidance was updated regularly over the next few years. The guidance published in 2013 
and the 24 July 2014 update are both relevant in this case because, from enquiry to 
completion, the transfer process with Zurich ran from 2013 until September 2014 (almost two 
months after the 2014 update). 
The 2013 Scorpion campaign comprised the following:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert (the Scorpion insert). The insert warns readers 
about the dangers of agreeing to cash in a pension early and identifies the following 
warning signs: being approached out of the blue by phone or text; pushy advisers or introducers who offer upfront cash incentives; companies offering loans, saving 
advances or cash back from a pension; and not being informed about the tax 
consequences of transferring. It concludes by recommending actions that can be taken 
to avoid becoming a victim of such activity. These included background searches online, 
pointing out that any financial advisers should be registered with the FCA. TPR said at 
the time it wanted to see the use of the Scorpion insert in transfer packs become best 
practice.
A longer leaflet issued by The Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) which gives more 
information, including example scenarios, about pension liberation. Guidance provided 
by TPR on its website at the time said this longer leaflet was intended to be sent to 
members who had queries about pension liberation fraud.
An action pack for scheme administrators that highlighted the warning signs present in 
a number of transfer examples. It suggested transferring schemes should look out for 
various warning signs of liberation. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack 
provided a checklist that schemes could use to help find out more about the receiving 
scheme and how the member came to make the transfer request. Where transferring 
schemes still had concerns, they were encouraged to write to members to warn them of 
the potential tax consequences of their actions; to consider delaying the transfer; to 
seek legal advice; and to direct the member to TPAS, TPR or Action Fraud. 
The 2014 update to the Scorpion campaign
This update reiterated much of what was stated in the 2013 version. There was again an 
insert which was to be sent to members requesting a transfer of their pension and an action 
pack which provided guidance to scheme providers on what to look out for. And there was a 
larger booklet which could be provided to members if they wanted more information about 
the matter.
The main change was that the 24 July 2014 update widened the focus from pension 
liberation specifically, to pension scams. The action pack for trustees and administrators was 
entitled Pensions Scams whereas the action pack from 2013 was entitled Pension 
Liberation Fraud. And, on the front page of the 2014 insert that was to be sent to members, 
it said Pension scams. Dont get stung. The 2014 update also made references throughout 
to scammers and made comments in relation to a member losing their lifetime savings as a 
result of being scammed, as opposed to being subject to potential tax charges which could 
occur as a result of liberating a pension.
Other features of the 2014 guidance:
It stated pensions scams in the UK were on the increase.
Trustees, administrators and pension providers had to ensure that members received 
regular and clear information about the risk of pension scams and how to spot a pension 
scam.
It asked for the Scorpion insert to be included in the members annual pension 
statement or in any other member communications.
It highlighted some common features of pension scams such as phrases like one off 
investment opportunities, free pension review, legal loopholes, cash bonus and 
government endorsement. It stated that consumers being approached out of the blue over the phone, via text 
messages or in person door-to door was a common feature of a scam. 
Transfers of money or investments overseas, were also highlighted as something to 
watch out for and it explained this was because the money would be harder to recover.
It said that if any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist 
transferring schemes could use to help find out more about the receiving scheme and 
how the member came to make the transfer request.
If transferring schemes still had concerns, they were encouraged to contact the member 
to establish whether they understood the type of scheme they were planning on 
transferring to and to send them the pension scams booklet.
It also encouraged transferring schemes to speak to the member at risk  over the 
phone, via email or letter  this could help the transferring scheme to establish answers 
to more of the questions on the checklist; or to direct the member to Action Fraud or 
TPAS if the transferring scheme thought it was a scam; or if the member insisted on 
proceeding the transferring scheme could contact Action Fraud itself.
The 2014 action pack also included two examples of real-life scams where the individuals 
concerned lost most or all of their pension savings. One of the examples closely matched 
the situation Mr D says he found himself in. It involved an individual under retirement age 
who had been approached out of the blue with an offer for a free pension review and who 
had been offered a unique investment opportunity for his pension savings specifically in a 
property development overseas.
The status of the Scorpion guidance 
When it was launched in February 2013, the Scorpion guidance was described as a cross-
government initiative by Action Fraud, The City of London Police, HMRC, TPAS, TPR, the 
SFO, and the FSA/FCA, all of which endorsed the action pack, allowing their names and 
logos to appear in the action pack and Scorpion insert. 
So far as TPR itself was concerned, it issued the guidance under the powers at s.12 of the 
Pension Act 2004, which provides: 
12 Provision of information, education and assistance
(1)  The [TPR] may provide such information, education and assistance as it considers 
appropriate to those involved in
(a)  the administration of work-based pension schemes, or
(b)  advising the trustees or managers in relation to such schemes as to their 
operation.
So, for the bodies regulated by TPR, the status of the guidance was that it provided them 
with information, education and/or assistance, as opposed to creating any new binding rule 
or legal duty.
Correspondingly, the communications about the launch of the guidance were predominantly 
expressed in terms that made its non-obligatory status clear. Likewise, by and large, the 
contents of the action pack are framed in a way that is consistent with its stated purpose, 
namely as points to note or suggested actions a firm might take. For example, rather than telling firms they are expected to spot the warning signs of pension liberation fraud, the 
action pack lists some of the things to look out for; and, rather than say that the presence 
of a warning sign requires the firm to run though the checklist, it states: If any of these 
features apply, then you can use the checklist  
The language arguably strays into the imperative under the heading Next steps if you have 
concerns, stating Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of 
scheme theyll be transferring to. Then speak to the member at risk. But, overall, the tenor 
of the document is essentially a set of prompts and suggestions, not requirements. And this 
remained the same for the updated version of the Scorpion guidance that followed in July 
2014.
Also, it would seem inconsistent to view the Scorpion guidance as representing a binding 
rule or legal duty on personal pension providers regulated by the FSA/FCA when such a 
duty didnt extend to those bodies that came under the regulator that drafted the guidance, 
the TPR. Furthermore, the FSAs endorsement of the Scorpion guidance was relatively 
informal: it didnt take the form of Handbook Guidance, because it was not issued under 
s.139A of FSMA, which enabled the FSA to issue guidance provided it underwent a 
consultation process first. Nor did it constitute confirmed industry guidance, as can be seen 
by consulting the list of all such FSA/FCA guidance on its website. 
I take from all the above that the contents of the action pack were essentially informational 
and advisory in nature and that deviating from the action pack doesnt necessarily mean a 
firm has broken the Principles or COBS rules. Firms were able to take a proportionate 
approach to transfer requests, balancing consumer protection with the need to also execute 
a transfer promptly and in line with a members statutory rights.
That said, the launch of the February 2013 Scorpion guidance was an important moment in 
so far as it provided, for the first time, guidance for personal pension providers dealing with 
transfer requests  guidance that prompted providers to take a more active role in assessing 
transfer requests. And this remained the case with all its subsequent updates. The campaign 
and guidance were launched in response to widespread abuses that were causing pension 
scheme members to suffer significant losses. And the guidances specific purpose was to 
inform and help ceding firms when they dealt with transfer requests in order to prevent these 
abuses and save their customers from falling victim to them. In those circumstances, 
I consider firms which received pension transfer requests needed to pay regard to the 
contents of the guidance as a matter of good industry practice.
Taking all this into account, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude providers should have 
recognised the environment had changed, and more was now expected of transferring 
schemes. It means February 2013 marks an inflection point in terms of what was expected 
of personal pension providers dealing with transfer requests as a matter of fulfilling their 
duties under the regulators Principles and COBS 2.1.1R. 
Therefore, whilst I dont think personal pension providers had to follow all aspects of the 
Scorpion guidance in every transfer request, I think good industry practice meant they 
should have paid heed to the information it contained; and, where the recommendations in 
the guidance applied, absent a good reason to the contrary, it would normally have been 
reasonable and in my view good industry practice for pension providers at least to follow the 
substance of those recommendations. I look at what this means in practice in the next 
section.
What did personal pension providers like Zurich need to do?TPR said it wanted to see the use of the Scorpion insert in transfer packs become best 
practice. Sending the insert was a simple and inexpensive step for pension firms to take and 
one that wouldnt have got in the way of efficiently dealing with transfer requests. I therefore 
think it reasonable for the Scorpion insert to have been sent by pension providers to 
transferring customers as a matter of course with transfer packs.
Under the 2014 Scorpion action pack, firms were asked to look out for the tell-tale signs of 
pension scams and undertake further due diligence and take appropriate action where it was 
apparent their client might be at risk. The action pack points to the scam warning signs 
transferring schemes should have been looking out for and provides a framework for any 
due diligence and follow-up actions. Therefore, as above, whilst using the action pack wasnt 
an inflexible requirement, it did represent a reasonable benchmark for the level of care 
expected of transferring schemes and identified specific steps that would be appropriate for 
them to take, if the circumstances demanded. 
The 2014 version of the Scorpion action pack wasnt published until after Zurich had 
received Mr Ds transfer request. Nonetheless, I think the guidance in this version is relevant 
in this case because when it was published, on 24 July 2014, Zurich was still making checks 
on Mr Ds transfer request, and it didnt complete the transfer until 17 September 2014. 
Zurich had almost two months to factor the updated guidance into the checks it was making. 
So, in my view, it reasonably should have done so.
The considerations of regulated firms didnt start and end with the Scorpion guidance. If a 
personal pension provider had good reason to think the transferring member was being 
scammed  even if the suspected scam didnt involve anything specifically referred to in the 
Scorpion guidance  then its general duties to its customer as an authorised financial 
services provider would come into play and it would have needed to act. Ignoring clear signs 
of a scam if they came (or should have come) to a firms attention would almost certainly 
breach the regulators principles and COBS 2.1.1R. 
What did Zurich do, and was this enough?
Zurich has said it carried out the following internal checks:
Checked Mr D had fully completed the required transfer claim form and it was signed 
by him and dated.
Checked details of the receiving scheme including the type of scheme, who the 
scheme administrator was and their regulatory status.
Checked the receiving scheme arrangement was a registered pension and the 
transfer would be a recognised transfer under section 169 of the Finance Act. CGL 
provided a copy of the HMRC Notification of Registration confirming the date on 
which the receiving scheme had been registered. In any event, Zurich conducted its 
own check with HMRC to determine the SSAS remained registered and was not the 
subject of a de-registration notice and that HMRC was not aware the scheme was 
being used to facilitate pension liberation.
Noted that CGL had provided Mr D with information relating to the topic of pension 
liberation. CGL provided Zurich with a letter signed by Mr D confirming that he was 
not seeking to access his pension early, that he hadnt been offered any cash or 
other incentive by any person and that he wanted to proceed with the transfer. In the 
same letter Mr D confirmed the reason he was requesting to transfer was to take 
advantage of investment opportunities available under the SSAS. Zurich noted CGL 
had provided Mr D with a copy of the TPAS Predators Stalk Your Pensions leaflet.Checked Mr D had a contractual right to transfer within the terms of his Zurich 
pension.
Checked the Trust Deed and SSAS Rules provided by CGL to determine the 
receiving arrangement was operating legitimately as a pension scheme.
In my view this wasnt enough in all the circumstances of Mr Ds transfer request, taking into 
account all the information available to Zurich. Ive set out below why, and what more I think 
Zurich should have done to satisfy itself that Mr D wasnt liberating his pension or being 
scammed.
The Scorpion insert
Zurich didnt send a Scorpion insert. But I dont think that mattered in this case because Im 
satisfied Mr D received a copy of the leaflet anyway. He signed a document confirming hed 
read the leaflet. This was provided to Zurich in June 2014, which means Mr D would have 
received the 2013 version of the leaflet. If Zurich had sent a leaflet along with the transfer 
packs, it would also have been the 2013 version of the leaflet: Zurich sent several transfer 
packs in this case, the latest of which was in January 2014. Even if Zurich had been so 
cautious as to send a Scorpion leaflet to Mr D as late as June 2014 when it received his 
transfer request from CGL, the current version of the leaflet then was still the 2013 version. 
So, Mr D had the appropriate leaflet at the appropriate time.
I dont think Zurich needed to send another leaflet to Mr D when the July 2014 update was 
released, given where his transfer request had progressed to by then. But I do think Zurich 
should have taken the updated 2014 guidance into account when carrying out its own 
checks, given these were ongoing at the time and the transfer didnt complete until 
September.
Due diligence
Zurich did carry out some checks, as mentioned above. But there were still characteristics of 
Mr Ds transfer that should have concerned Zurich and which it should have explored further. 
On the 19 June 2014, CGL wrote to Zurich providing  among other information  a copy of 
the HMRC notification which stated Mr Ds SSAS had been registered on 12 June 2014, and 
a Q&A document that stated the proposed investment was commercial property provided by 
The Resort Group, with a link to The Resort Groups website. So, Zurich knew Mr D wanted 
to transfer his pension into a recently registered scheme, and it knew (or reasonably should 
have known) the transfer involved overseas investment.
Only one of these scenarios  a newly registered receiving scheme  was mentioned as a 
potential warning sign in the original version of the Scorpion action pack, which was current 
at the time Zurich received CGLs letter of 19 June 2014. Zurich had checked with HMRC 
that Mr Ds scheme wasnt subject to a de-registration notice, so it says it would be 
unreasonable to expect it to have carried out extra due diligence checks on Mr Ds transfer 
based solely on this one point, when no other warning signs were apparent. Zurich also says 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect it to undertake extra due diligence simply because 
Mr D was transferring to a SSAS, pointing out that SSASs werent specifically highlighted by 
TPR as a potential warning sign for scams until March 2015.
But Zurich has overlooked the fact that a second scenario present in Mr Ds case  an 
overseas property investment  was highlighted as a potential warning sign in the updated 
2014 version of the Scorpion action pack. The 2014 action pack was published just five weeks after Zurich received Mr Ds transfer request, whilst Zurichs enquiries were still 
ongoing, and almost two months before Zurich completed the transfer. So, Zurich should 
have taken it into account.
I think Zurich should have known, therefore, in good time before Mr Ds transfer completed in 
late September, that the 2014 Scorpion action pack warned about two scenarios present in 
Mr Ds transfer request. Zurich should have recognised these were potential signs of a 
scam. Exercising reasonable due diligence in line with its obligations under PRIN 2 and 
PRIN 6, Im satisfied Zurich should have followed up on these warning signs.
To be clear, I dont think Zurich needed to do extra due diligence in this particular case 
simply because the transfer was to a SSAS. The initial warning signs that should have 
prompted Zurich to enquire further were that Mr D wanted to transfer to a newly registered 
scheme to invest in an overseas property development. However, the fact TPR didnt warn 
specifically about SSASs until March 2015 doesnt mean Zurich should have been blind to 
the possibility of SSASs being used for scams. This was something the FCA was warning 
about at the time Zurich was processing Mr Ds transfer request. (The FCA warned about the 
use of SSASs in scams, along with investing in unregulated and unusual investments such 
as overseas property, in its Protecting Your Pension Pot publication of August 2014, which 
it highlighted to firms in a regulatory round up on 1 September 2014.)
In these circumstances  following the publication on 24 July 2014 of the updated Scorpion 
guidance (if not before), and certainly before Zurich made the transfer nearly 2 months later 
(by which time FCA had also voiced concern about the role of SSASs and overseas/unusual 
investments)  I think Zurich should fairly and reasonably have looked into the proposed 
transfer and what lay behind Mr Ds request. The most reasonable way of going about this 
would have been to turn to the checklist from the 2014 action pack to structure its due 
diligence in regard to Mr D's transfer.
The checklist provided a series of questions to help transferring schemes assess the 
potential threat of a scam by finding out more about the receiving scheme and how the 
consumer came to make the transfer request. Some items on the checklist could have been 
addressed by checking online resources such as Companies House and HMRC. Others 
would have required contacting the consumer. 
The checklist is divided into three parts (which Ive numbered for ease of reading and not 
because I think the checklist was designed to be followed in a particular order):
1. The nature/status of the receiving scheme
Sample questions: Is the receiving scheme newly registered with HMRC, is it 
sponsored by a newly registered employer or a dormant employer, is that employer 
geographically distant from the transferring member and is the receiving scheme 
connected to an unregulated investment company?
2. Description/promotion of the scheme
Sample questions: Do descriptions, promotional materials or adverts of the receiving 
scheme include the words loan, savings advance, cash incentive, bonus, 
loophole or preference shares one-off investments, free pension reviews or 
allude to overseas investments?
3. The scheme memberSample questions: Has the transferring member been contacted by an introducer, 
been advised by a non-regulated adviser or taken no advice? Has the member 
decided to transfer after receiving cold calls, unsolicited emails or text messages 
about their pension? 
Opposite each question, or group of questions, the checklist listed actions that should help 
the transferring scheme establish the facts. 
I dont think it would always have been necessary for transferring schemes to follow the 
checklist in its entirety. And I dont think an answer to any one single question on the 
checklist would usually be conclusive in itself. A transferring scheme would therefore 
typically need to conduct investigations across several parts of the checklist to establish 
whether liberation or other scams were realistic threats. Given the warning signs that should 
have been apparent to Zurich when dealing with Mr Ds transfer request, and the relatively 
limited information it had about the transfer, I think in this case Zurich should reasonably 
have addressed all three parts of the checklist and contacted Mr D as part of its due 
diligence.
What would Zurich reasonably have discovered?
Mr D alleges he was cold called and  in essence  advised to transfer his pension to 
facilitate the TRG investment. That allegation is relevant to how Mr D would have explained 
the reasons and circumstances of his transfer request if Zurich had asked him about these. 
So, I need to examine its plausibility against the surrounding circumstances.
Mr D wasnt a sophisticated investor: he says hed never held investments other than (what 
were quite straightforward) mainstream pensions, and he was a regular employee, working 
as a plant fitter. I accept his representations about this. Theres nothing to suggest he had 
knowledge or experience of SSASs, nor of setting up his own company, nor of how to invest 
in an overseas commercial property development. These were complex and unusual 
arrangements for someone in his circumstances. I think its unlikely he decided on his own to 
enter into them without advice or some form of recommendation. 
Furthermore, the links between DLW, CWL, CGL and the Resort Group  as well as the link 
between Moneywise and CMM (whom Im aware from other complaints received by the 
ombudsman service were both routinely involved in facilitating pension transfer 
arrangements that resulted in customers investing in The Resort Group)  suggest and add 
to the overall likelihood that Mr D was subject to an orchestrated process involving several 
different firms, which had the ultimate aim of securing funding for The Resort Group by 
persuading private individuals like him to transfer their pensions and invest the proceeds in 
it.
So, taking all the circumstances into account, on balance I find Mr Ds recollection that he 
was cold called and advised to transfer his pension to be more likely than not. But who cold 
called him and who advised him? (And, therefore, what is Mr D likely to have said about this 
if Zurich had asked him at the time?) Mr D no longer remembers.
Moneywise had the earliest contact with Mr D, shortly after hed left his employer. Mr Ds 
employer had been a well-known company whose closure in March 2013 was reported in the 
press at the time. In my experience, high-profile company or pension scheme closures did 
sometimes attract cold calls from opportunists offering pension reviews to former 
staff/members. This might just be a coincidence in this case, of course, but the fact remains 
that Moneywise was on the scene long before the other parties we know of, and so I think 
its more likely than not to have been a representative from Moneywise who initially cold called Mr D and offered him a free pension review. This must have been around May 2013, 
which is when Mr D signed forms for Moneywise to obtain his pension details from Zurich.
Its possible Moneywise advised Mr D to transfer his pension or took steps towards doing so. 
However, theres no indication Mr D took any action consequent to Moneywises request for 
his pension information, so he doesnt appear to have relied on any advice he might have 
received from Moneywise. It wasnt until six months later  immediately after contact with 
CMM, when CMM started the process again by requesting his pension information afresh  
that Mr D took the first concrete step towards transferring: he established a new limited 
company solely for the purpose (it would seem) of setting up a SSAS. On balance, its more 
likely the initial contact with Moneywise didnt extend to providing advice about this 
arrangement and that the advice to take out the SSAS and overseas investment happened 
later, when CMM contacted Mr D. I think its more likely than not CMM is the firm with whom 
Mr D remembers discussing his pension and who advised him, in such a way as persuaded 
him to act, that it would be a good idea to transfer it to a SSAS.
Moneywise and CMM were linked by the same Leicester address and the same consultant 
ID in this particular case. They also used the same enquiry number, although CMM started 
the process anew. Ive considered the possibility their relationship involved Moneywise 
providing regulated financial advice before and/or after referring Mr D to CMM. But the long 
gap between Moneywise requesting Mr Ds pension information and CMM requesting it  
and the fact that CMM did so, rather than Moneywise again  doesnt suggest Moneywise 
remained involved. The consultant ID does suggest the same person had contacted Mr D, 
first in May on behalf of Moneywise and then again in December on behalf of CMM. Taking 
into account the use of a common address (which was CMMs registered address) I think its 
likely the consultant was wearing two hats, working out of CMMs premises but generating 
business for both firms. This might explain why Mr D says hes never heard of Moneywise; it 
makes sense hed remember the more recent and (probably) more substantial contact  
when the person hed dealt with was representing CMM.
Even though it seems likely they used the same consultant, on balance I think Mr Ds 
dealings with Moneywise had come to an end by the time CMM became involved in 
December 2013. Before reaching this conclusion, I carefully considered the fact that Zurich 
sent information about Mr Ds pension to Moneywise in January 2014. But I think this letter 
was a mistake. I dont think it indicates Moneywise was actually still involved at that point. 
The letter was sent in reply to a request for Mr Ds pension details. Zurich doesnt have a 
copy of a request from Moneywise other than the one it received in May 2013, which it had 
already replied to in June 2013. Moneywise had used the same address as CMM. 
Presumably, therefore, Zurich had Moneywise in its system already matched to that address 
and to Mr D, as a result of the request Moneywise had made seven months prior. I think it 
more likely than not that Zurichs letter to Moneywise in January was actually prompted by 
CMMs information request of 13 December 2013. It would be an easy error for Zurich to 
have mismatched the request from CMM to the business name at the same address already 
in its system. The fact that Zurich just six days later re-sent the information, but this time 
addressed it to CMM from whom it had indeed received a request, is consistent with it 
correcting such an error. That seems more plausible to me than Zurich having received 
another information request from Moneywise but lost its record of this particular piece of 
correspondence, despite retaining records on Mr Ds file for similar correspondence before 
and after it.
In all the circumstances, on balance, I dont think Moneywise was involved in giving the 
advice that led to Mr Ds transfer request. I think it most likely CMM gave him that advice and 
persuaded him to make the transfer.Earlier in my findings I concluded that, in this particular case, Zurich should have addressed 
all three parts of the Scorpion checklist and contacted Mr D as part of its due diligence. In 
my view, even the most basic enquiry by Zurich under part 3 of the checklist in 2014 would 
have revealed that Mr Ds interest in transferring had been prompted by a cold call. That 
would have been a further warning sign, which should have prompted Zurich to enquire 
further. I think Mr D would have told Zurich  had it asked him, as I think it should have done 
 that hed initially been cold called and then contacted again much more recently by 
someone whod advised him to transfer his personal pension with the aim of making an 
overseas commercial property investment. I think hed have named CMM as the business 
that advised him, because: at that point it would have been more than a year since he was in 
contact with Moneywise (a firm he doesnt remember), CMM had started the process again 
much more recently with a new information request, and CMM was the firm whom the 
evidence indicates actually prompted him to act.
The scorpion checklist recommends that in order to establish whether a member has been 
advised by a non-regulated adviser, the transferring firm should consult the FCAs online 
register of authorised firms. Zurich should have taken that step, which is not difficult. It would 
quickly have discovered that CMM was not regulated to provide financial advice and 
consequently Mr D had received unregulated advice to transfer out of his personal pension.
Zurich says it had no reason to be concerned about the involvement of CMM because: 
Zurich received no evidence Mr D was being advised by CMM; and in any event, Zurichs 
checks against CMM concluded it was an introducer appointed representative and therefore 
had a remit to request information subject to Mr Ds written authority. To be clear, I havent 
assumed Zurich actually had evidence Mr D was being advised by CMM. Rather, Ive 
concluded this is what Zurich would have discovered if it had followed the Scorpion checklist 
to find out more about how Mr D came to request the transfer. Ive explained above why 
I think Zurich should have done this. Zurich is correct to say CMM had a remit to request 
Mr Ds pension information. But the fact CMM was an introducer appointed representative 
for an FCA regulated firm did not mean it was authorised to give regulated financial advice 
about Mr Ds pension  indeed, it meant the opposite: introducer appointed representatives 
are restricted in what they are allowed to do and cannot recommend transfers out of 
personal pensions or give advice about the suitability of such a transaction. If Zurich had 
checked the FCA online register at the time, it would quickly have discovered that CMM was 
not allowed to do so.
This is relevant because being advised by a firm which lacked authorisation or any relevant 
exemption to transfer benefits from a personal pension plan would have been a breach of 
the general prohibition imposed by FSMA, which states no one can carry out regulated 
activities unless theyre authorised or exempt. Anyone working in this field should have been 
aware of this. 
My view is that Zurich should have been concerned by the involvement of an unauthorised 
adviser because it pointed to a criminal breach of FSMA. On the balance of probabilities, Im 
satisfied such a breach occurred here.  CMMs status as an introducer appointed 
representative neither made it authorised nor exempted it from authorisation when it came to 
advising Mr D to transfer his personal pension, as Zurich should have concluded.  
With its obligations under the regulators Principles and COBS 2.1.1R in mind, it would have 
been appropriate for Zurich to have informed Mr D that the firm hed been speaking to was 
unregulated and could put his pension at risk. Zurich should have told him that only 
authorised financial advisers are allowed to give advice on personal pension transfers, so he 
risked falling victim to illegal activity.Zurich says it was entitled to rely on a statement from CGL, on 19 June 2014, that Mr D was 
receiving appropriate advice from an FCA regulated financial adviser firm called Sequence.
I agree. However, that statement was quite specific about the type of advice Sequence was 
supposed to be providing. It said: As per the requirement under section 36 of the Pensions 
Act 1995, the trustee is taking and considering appropriate advice on whether the proposed 
investment(s) are satisfactory for the aims of the scheme. // The appropriate advice is being 
taken from Sequence Financial Management Limited The trustee was Mr D. The 
appropriate advice referred to in the statement is clearly limited to advice given to Mr D in 
his capacity as trustee under section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995. This type of advice is 
quite different to personal financial advice, which Zurich should have known.  
Zurich says any regulated adviser advising Mr D, in whatever capacity, would still have to 
comply with the suitability requirements within the prevailing FCA COBS rules in place at the 
time. But the suitability requirements in COBS didnt apply to advice about a property 
investment given to a trustee under section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, which is the type of 
advice Zurich was told Sequence was providing to Mr D.  The only limb of this transfer to 
which the COBS rules would have applied was regulated advice given to Mr D about 
transferring out of his Zurich pension.  Zurich should have known that section 36 advice, 
given to Mr D as trustee of the SSAS, was not regulated financial advice about the suitability 
for Mr D of the proposed transfer out of his personal pension scheme in favour of the 
proposed new investment.  CGL did not suggest Mr D was taking advice of that kind, but 
only advice on whether the proposed investment(s) are satisfactory for the aims of the 
scheme.
Therefore, while I agree Zurich was entitled to rely on the statement about the involvement 
of Sequence, I dont think the statement should have reassured Zurich that Mr D was getting 
regulated financial advice, and certainly not the type of advice that Zurich  and the Scorpion 
guidance itself  recommended he should be getting. Further, its apparent that Zurich in fact 
didnt interpret the statement in this way at the time because Zurichs letter to Mr D just over 
a month later, on 21 July 2014, proceeded on the assumption that he might not have 
obtained regulated financial advice.
Zurich asserts that its letter of 21 July 2014 nonetheless gave Mr D sufficient warnings of the 
potential risks and encouraged him to seek regulated financial advice. The full text of this 
letter has been set out earlier in this decision. In the letter, Zurich strongly recommended to 
Mr D that he seek regulated advice and told him how he could find an adviser and how to 
check whether his adviser was authorised. The recommendation was helpful, so far as it 
went, but it failed to tell him what Zurich should reasonably have already found out  which 
was that he already appeared to be involved with an unregulated adviser which was putting 
his pension at risk. As the professional in this transaction, Zurich had greater knowledge and 
experience about the risks of relying on unregulated advice. And it had a duty under PRIN 6 
and COBS 2.1.1R to act in accordance with his best interests. So, once it had discovered 
(as I think it should have done) that Mr D was already in receipt of unauthorised advice, 
I dont think it was reasonable for Zurich to give him a general warning framed in non-
specific terms, stating If you have not yet been advised regarding your proposed transfer by 
a UK regulated financial adviser specialising in pensions,. .  That warning missed the key 
point, and one that Zurich should have looked into: the proposed transfer had been 
recommended to Mr D, apparently in breach of the criminal law, by an unauthorised firm. 
Furthermore, it was around this time (in July 2014) that the Scorpion guidance was updated 
to refer more widely to the risks of scams. Yet Zurich doesnt appear to have applied this to 
its due diligence in Mr Ds case, even though it had ample time to do so because his transfer 
didnt complete until September 2014.
CausationOverall, Im not satisfied Zurich fulfilled its obligations under PRIN and COBS, nor followed 
good practice in relation to Mr Ds transfer. So, I dont think it acted fairly and reasonably. 
I think Zurich should have provided more specific information to Mr D about the risks of the 
transfer along the lines Ive set out above. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether this 
failing caused Mr D harm or loss.
Ive considered the possibility Mr D would have gone ahead with the transfer even if Zurich 
had done all it should. He didnt act upon the letter Zurich sent to him in July 2014 which 
highlighted the issue of pension liberation, and which strongly recommended he seek 
regulated advice. Nor did he act upon the Scorpion insert, which contained much of the 
same information that Zurich had provided. Further, Zurich asserts Mr D was fully committed 
in his plan with the TRG investment and that its unrealistic to suggest a further phone call or 
letter would have changed his mind.
However, when I take everything into consideration, Im persuaded that Mr D would not have 
gone ahead with the transfer if Zurich had done everything it should.
The letter from Zurich in July 2014 didnt explain why Mr D should seek regulated advice nor 
 importantly  did it identify that the adviser involved in his transaction was unregulated. It 
didnt highlight to Mr D that one of the parties advising him was most likely breaking the law 
and exposing him to further risk. And Zurich never made these points to Mr D.  
Had it done so, I dont think Mr D would have ignored this information. It was materially 
different information than what was contained in the warnings he actually did receive. Being 
in possession of all the facts and information, its likely Mr D would have acted differently. As 
explained above, this information should have followed contact with Mr D asking him more 
about his transfer request, so would have seemed to him (and indeed would have been) 
specific to his individual circumstances. It would have been given to him in the context of 
Zurich raising concerns about the risk of him losing his pension monies as a result of 
untrustworthy advice. This would have made him aware he, specifically, had exposed his 
pension to serious risk by following the advice of an unregulated adviser.
Although Mr D had already taken various steps to facilitate the TRG investment, Im not 
persuaded he was so committed that he couldnt or wouldnt have stopped the transfer. 
Whilst he had gone to the trouble of setting up a dormant company (albeit via an agent) and 
establishing a SSAS, there was no cost or barrier to him simply deciding not to take these 
forward and cancelling the transfer. I think his motivation for making the TRG investment 
came from the unsolicited advice. He was being led through the process. So, if hed 
understood this advice was potentially untrustworthy, I think he would have changed his 
mind.
Its my view that Mr D wouldnt have transferred his pension and lost much of its value but 
for the failings on Zurichs part which Ive described above.
Ive therefore gone on to consider what is fair compensation in the circumstances here.
Fair compensation
I bear in mind that Mr Ds complaint is similar to the type of claim that in legal proceedings 
would be treated as a claim for damages for negligent failure to give him the information or 
advice to which he was entitled. In that kind of case, the court asks itself whether there is a 
sufficient connection between the harm for which the claimant seeks damages as 
compensation and the subject matter of the defendants duty of care. The court looks to see 
what risk the defendants duty was supposed to guard against and whether the claimants loss represents that particular risk coming to fruition. 
The circumstances that gave rise to this complaint were: 
The transfer followed unsolicited contact offering a free pension review.
The receiving scheme was very recently set up  only weeks before the transfer was 
requested.
The investment within the new scheme involved overseas investment properties. 
The Scorpion action pack highlighted these as scam risks and recommended 
checking that financial advice comes only from an authorised person by checking the 
FCAs register. 
Overall, the advice Mr D had received to transfer out of his personal pension was highly 
irregular, being given in breach of the general prohibition under FSMA and involving a risky, 
overseas property investment which was plainly inappropriate for Mr D, given his lack of 
investment experience and limited financial resources: this was precisely one of the 
situations the Scorpion material warned against. Im therefore satisfied there is sufficient 
connection between the harm Mr D wants to be compensated for and the risk that Zurich 
had a duty to guard against.
Nonetheless, I also think  as I explain below  its fair that Mr D should bear some 
responsibility for the loss he has incurred.  And, although Im deciding only a complaint and 
not a legal claim, I take into account that the courts are able to reduce damages for 
negligence, where they think it just to do so because the claimant shares responsibility for 
the losses theyve suffered.
More specifically, the Law Reform (Contributory Negligence) Act 1945 allows for the 
apportionment of liability in the case of contributory negligence. It says that where any 
person suffers damage as the result partly of his own fault and partly of the fault of any other 
person, a claim in respect of that damage shall not be defeated by reason of the fault of the 
person suffering the damage, but the damages recoverable shall be reduced to such extent 
as the court thinks just and equitable having regard to the claimants share in the 
responsibility for the damage.
In this case, I think Mr Ds failure to act on what he knew (or reasonably should have known) 
contributed to the loss hes suffered.
As I explained earlier in this decision, Zurichs letter of 21 July 2014 strongly recommended 
Mr D seek regulated advice if he wasnt already in receipt of this. This recommendation was 
made more in line with the principal risk Zurich was on the lookout for  which was that 
unregulated third parties might cold call Mr D in an attempt to liberate his pension  rather 
than a wider warning about scams. Mr D might have thought he had no reason to worry 
about pension liberation. But it was, nonetheless, a warning from a trusted source about how 
he could protect himself from an inappropriate transfer. The letter explained how to find a 
regulated adviser and how to check if an adviser was regulated.
Just one month later Mr D received a letter from Broadwood, which also suggested he might 
want to take regulated financial advice. The Broadwood letter would have been reassuring 
on some points: it said the proposed transfer wouldnt facilitate pension liberation and the 
TRG investment was legitimate and well-resourced. But it also clearly explained that:
Broadwood wasnt a regulated adviser;the proposed transfer involved risky investments which were highly illiquid, with no 
UK regulatory or compensatory protection and which were unsuitable for a cautious 
investor;
if Mr D preferred advice on the suitability of the investment for him personally then he 
should seek regulated financial advice.
Mr D says he was an inexperienced investor who wouldnt have wanted lots of risk. At the 
time he received the Broadwood letter, I think he would have recognised himself as 
someone who was a cautious investor. Therefore, the Broadwood letter should have been 
a strong warning to him that he should get regulated advice to ensure the investment was 
suitable for him before going ahead. And he already knew  from Zurichs letter  how to 
check whether the unsolicited advice hed already received from CMM was regulated. Yet 
Mr D didnt check. He could easily have done so. This would have been a reasonable step 
Id expect someone in his position to take and would probably have led to the illegal advice 
being uncovered and the transfer being aborted. 
None of the other parties assisting Mr D to set up the SSAS (DLW, CWL, CGL, Broadwood) 
were regulated and the evidence doesnt suggest they claimed to be. So, theres no reason 
to think their involvement would have reassured Mr D that he was getting regulated advice. 
The only party that was authorised to provide regulated financial advice, Moneywise, didnt 
advise Mr D and Mr D doesnt remember dealing with them. So Moneywise wouldnt have 
reassured him either.
Therefore, when considering fair compensation in this case, I think it would be reasonable to 
attribute some responsibility for the loss Mr D has suffered to his own failure to act. 
In light of my finding that Mr D must accept some responsibility himself, Zurich has pointed 
to what it says is applicable law, in section 1C(2) of FSMA 2000 and a related judgment set 
out by Lord Justice Rix in ZakI v Credit Suisse [2013] EWCA Civ 14. The principle Zurich 
points to here is that properly informed consumers should take responsibility for their own 
mistakes. It is Zurichs view that because Mr D went ahead with his transfer despite 
receiving the requisite warnings, he should take full responsibility for his own actions and 
Zurich should not be held responsible. In making this argument, Zurich appears to have 
misunderstood my conclusions. Crucially, I dont think Mr D received the requisite warnings 
for his particular circumstances. I think Zurich breached a duty it owed under PRIN and 
COBS (for the reasons I explained earlier in this decision) with the result that Mr D was not 
properly informed. Therefore I dont think the principle Zurich seeks to rely on in section 
1C(2) of FSMA 2000 or ZakI v Credit Suisse [2013] EWCA Civ 14 is relevant to my findings 
here.
Essentially, I think both Zurich and Mr D should have done more during the process of the 
transfer to guard against the risk of a scam and that if either of them had done as they 
reasonably should, Mr Ds losses would have been avoided. But Zurich was the professional 
party, operating as it did a regulated pensions business in which dealing with members 
transfer requests was an inherent feature; so it should have been more familiar with the risks 
than Mr D. In accordance with its duty under PRIN 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, Zurich should (as 
I have found above) have given specific warning about the likelihood Mr D had already been 
drawn into a scam. So, I think its failings were worse than those of Mr D. While this isnt an 
exact science, in the circumstances of this complaint, I propose to reduce Mr Ds 
compensation by 30%. I think this is a fair way to account for Mr Ds own contribution to the 
loss hes suffered.
Putting things right
The SSAS only seems to have been used in order for Mr D to make an investment that I dont think he would have made but for Zurichs shortcomings. So, I think Mr D would have 
remained in his pension plan with Zurich and wouldnt have transferred to the SSAS.
To compensate Mr D fairly, Zurich should compare the actual value of Mr Ds SSAS with the 
notional value if it had remained with Zurich. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Mr Ds SSAS at the date of my final decision.
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. I consider that is the case with the TRG 
investment within the SSAS. Therefore, as part of calculating compensation, Zurich should 
give the TRG investment a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that 
Mr D should not be disadvantaged while it is unable to close down the SSAS and move to a 
potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. So to provide certainty to all 
parties I think its fair that Zurich also pays Mr D an upfront sum equivalent to 70% of five 
years worth of future administration fees at the current tariff for the SSAS, to allow a 
reasonable period of time for the SSAS to be closed.
Any outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the SSAS should also be 
deducted from the actual value.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr Ds pension had it remained with Zurich at the date of my final 
decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr D received directly 
from the SSAS which would have been permitted under the tax rules, should be treated as 
notional withdrawals from Zurich on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to take 
part in the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr D needed a pension arrangement that wasnt 
privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So, I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into the 
SSAS. However, in a case such as this where Ive concluded there is contributory 
negligence, I also dont think its appropriate for Zurich to reinstate Mr Ds original pension 
plan, as it was not only Zurichs actions that led to it being lost.
If Zurich is open to new business, it should set up a new plan for a value equal to 70% of the 
amount of any loss. The new plan should have features, costs and investment choices that 
are as close as possible to Mr Ds original pension. Its payment into the new plan should 
allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if applicable). Zurich shouldnt set up a new plan 
if it conflicts with any existing lifetime allowance protection  or if it considers that its 
payment will be treated as a member contribution in excess of Mr Ds annual allowance, and 
Zurich is unable to process the amount in excess of the annual allowance. 
If its not possible to set up a new plan, Zurich must pay the amount of any loss direct to 
Mr D. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Mr D.
Zurich may ask Mr D to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 70% of the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from any illiquid investment in future. Zurich will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Zurich asks Mr D to provide this 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Zurich receiving Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Zurich deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Zurich should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate. 
If either Mr D or Zurich dispute that the assumption for tax that Mr D will pay at retirement is 
reasonable, they must let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be 
clarified, and Mr D receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend 
this assumption if a final decision is issued on the complaint.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I direct 
Zurich Assurance Ltd to compensate Mr D in line with the approach outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman