DRN-3693003
The complaint
Mr S complains he was prevented from selling shares due to outages on IG Markets Limited 
platform. He says he suffered a loss as because when he did manage to sell the shares the 
price had fallen.
What happened
Mr S holds a share dealing account on IGs platform. 
In late January 2021, Mr S was attempting to sell a stock he held but due to outage 
problems on the platform he was unable to do so. When the IG platform resumed service the 
stock price had fallen. Mr S considered his position and he did place a stop loss order to 
minimise his losses and sold his shares for $119.78 per share. He said this was significantly 
below the previous high price and resulted in him losing out. 
Following this Mr S complained to IG. He said he should have uninterrupted access to sell 
the stock at any given time. And as the service went down on multiple occasions between 
the 27th and 29th January, he was prevented from selling following the movements of the 
stock price. 
IG responded to the complaint. It said there had been unprecedented demand caused by 
clients attempting to trade the specific stock Mr S was looking to sell. As a result of this 
demand, many clients were prevented from accessing their accounts for some time  
specifically: 
Between 14:35 and 15:20 on the 27th January 
Between 14:35 and 15:10 on the 28th January 
Between 15:34 and 16:00 on the 29th January
IG accepted it was reasonable for it to consider the impact the outages had on Mr S. It 
offered Mr S a correction of the value between the absolute high price during the outage 
($482.10) on 28 January 2021 and the point at which he would have been able to sell his 
holdings online when the service resumed ($411.50). For the 85 shares Mr S was looking to 
sell, this equated to compensation of $6,001. 
Mr S didnt accept the offer and referred his complaint to the service for an independent 
review. In his submissions to this service he said he didnt feel the offer made represented 
the true extend of his losses. He doesnt agree with the logic that he 'should' have sold the 
stock at the next available price when IG resumed service. He said, he had a target for when 
he wished to exit his position and unfortunately, he was unable to fulfil his strategy due to the 
unavailability of the IG platform. He acknowledged he could have sold his stock when the IG 
service resumed but doesnt think it is fair to base compensation entirely around this 
principle, as the root cause of the situation is the IG platform not being set up to deal
with the demand. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He accepted the system error was due to too 
many clients attempting to login into IGs system at the same time  and this wasnt 
something IG could have predicted or controlled. He thought IG should have attempted to 
better prepare or warn clients that about the outage. He went on to consider the offer IG 
made to Mr S and found that it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But he didnt 
think IG was responsible for all of the losses Mr S claimed. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision on his complaint. He doesnt agree that IG could not have foreseen the influx of 
users that could lead to a system error, and believes it simply did not account for this 
possibility. He also raised concerns about IG preventing the purchase of the particular share 
in question. He said IG made a decision to prevent the purchase of shares around the time 
of the outage, by implementing a 'position closing only', citing the reason for this as the 
volatility associated with the stock. He said this impacted the supply and demand for the 
shares because demand was restricted  and this in turn impacted the price the shares 
could be sold at and the ability receive a fair price for the stock. In his opinion, IG's decision 
to remove the ability to purchase the stock, in conjunction with other platforms, is also what 
contributed to the stock crashing following the platform outage, wiping tens of thousands of 
unrealised gains.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S believes he has suffered a loss because of failings on 
IGs trading platform that prevented him using his dealing account.   
It isnt in dispute that IGs platform had outages that prevented Mr S from trading. On 
occasion trading platforms do suffer technical problems, which result in investors not being 
provided with the service they expect. It is also possible technical problems can be impacted 
by external factors. And where I find the platform is at fault, I need to consider how the 
investors was affected and what they did to mitigate their loss. 
But in this case, IG has accepted fault that Mr S has suffered a loss because of the problems 
with its trading platform. It has made him an offer to compensate for this. So, Ive considered 
whether the offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
IGs offer recognises that Mr S wasnt able to trade when he wanted to as there was an 
outage on the platform. It has looked at the difference between the highest price the share 
reached during the outage on 28 January 2021 and the price that could have been achieved 
directly after the platform re-open (later in the same day). IG has identified Mr S suffered a 
loss and offered to pay him that. 
I think IG has acted fairly by using the highest possible price during the outage for the 
comparison point in its loss calculation. It says after 3.10pm, Mr S could have traded as the 
outage was resolved and IGs platform returned to full operation. Ive thought about whether 
this is a fair way to assess Mr Ss loss. At this point Mr S wasnt impacted by the failings on 
the platform, in that he wasnt prevented from placing a trade. But he didnt actually sell his 
shares for more than an hour after this and by this time the price had fallen. He says when 
the IG platform resumed service the stock price had pulled back, and as such he was 
reassessing the situation.
It is uncertain to know exactly when Mr S would have sold his shares but for the outage. He 
says he had a target amount that was only reached during the outage, so doesnt feel he 
should have to accept the price when the service resumed as this was lower than his target.  
I note that IG has said there is no evidence to show Mr S made contact by telephone or 
email during the day outlining the situation. Mr S also hasnt said he contacted IG either. So, I dont think there is evidence to say Mr S was prevented from selling his shares because of 
failings by IG after the platform resumed service. Mr S also recognises that he had control of 
his actions following the IG platform returning to service and that he 'could' have sold at a 
lower price (than his target). Despite this, he thinks it is unfair to base the compensation on 
this principle, as the root cause of the situation was the outage of the platform. 
I do understand the points Mr S makes but having carefully considered everything, I do think 
IGs offer is fair. Mr S was trading in a volatile stock and this added to the uncertainty of what 
price he could achieve. It also appears he was considering his options when the stock price 
was moving during the period after the resumption of service. Taking this all into account, I 
think it is reasonable for IG to use the price Mr S could have achieved when the platform 
came back on after the outage. It was no longer preventing him from placing a trade 
because of the outage, so I accept there is good reason to use this time. And from what Ive 
seen there isnt evidence that there was a different point in time that would be a fairer to 
calculate the potential loss from. I also dont think it would be fair to ask IG to pay Mr S 
anything further for the unrealised profits he claims. I understand why he is disappointed that 
he wasnt able to achieve size of profits he wanted. But IG isnt responsible for the volatility 
of the stock and I think the offer made fairly covers the losses he suffered as a result of the 
outage. 
Ive considered Mr Ss points about around IG suspending the purchase of shares and that 
impacting the price that was achievable for him when selling the shares. IG has explained it 
temporarily suspended any new positions to be opened in the stock on 1 February 2021 at 
market open. It says this temporary restriction did not apply to already open positions and 
clients were able to trade out of their open positions if they wanted to. And it says the reason 
why IG took the decision to restrict the opening of new positions was due to the extreme 
volatility in the stock and to prioritise the service it could give to our existing clients.  It says 
Mr S had already sold his shares when the restriction came into place. 
From the evidence IG has provided from Mr Ss account, I can see he was able to sell 85 
shares at around 4.20pm on 28 January (with the trade settling on 1 February 2021). So, it 
appears that the sale proceeds Mr S achieved werent impacted by the concerns he raises 
about the restrictions. So, while I understand why he was concerned about the restrictions 
placed, I cant fairly say this impacted the trade he placed to sell his shares  or caused him 
a loss. And as Ive previously found that the offer IG made to compensate him for the outage 
was reasonable in the circumstances, I dont think it is appropriate to compensate him 
further. 
For the reasons Ive explain I find the offer IG made to Mr S to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
IG Markets Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr S the difference between the 
highest price achievable for Mr Ss shares during the outage and the price he could receive 
when the service resumed to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that IG Markets Limited should honour the offer it made to Mr S in its final 
response letter and pay him the compensation due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 Daniel Little
Ombudsman