DRN-4105982
The complaint
Ms D and Mr H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham 
Midshires) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms D and Mr H were sold the PPI at around the same time as arranging their mortgage in 
1990. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D and Mr H disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland doesnt have much information available from the time of the sale, which is 
unsurprising given how long ago it took place. Ms D and Mr H have also said that they cant 
remember how the policy was sold to them. In reaching my decision I will look at the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances.
Ms D and Mr H say they werent given a choice about having PPI and were told that they 
had to buy it if they wanted the mortgage to be approved. But Ive seen a letter from Bank of 
Scotland dated 5 November 1990 that informs them that the mortgage has been approved 
and then asks them to consider PPI. So it seems clear to me that the PPI was not presented 
as a condition of the mortgage and that they were sold PPI at a slightly later time than when 
they were doing their mortgage application.
I have no doubt that Ms D and Mr H have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
Based on the available evidence, I think that Ms D and Mr H probably decided to buy the 
PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
In recommending the PPI to Ms D and Mr H, Bank of Scotland needed to ensure that it met 
their needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for them.
Ms D and Mr H have queried why the PPI was set up just in Mr Hs name. I have no way of 
knowing how that decision came about. However, the policy being set up that way doesnt in 
itself make it unsuitable.
Mr H cant remember what sick pay he might have received from his employer. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than he 
would have received full pay for. They say they had some savings at the time. But having the 
policy would have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings 
at what would have been a difficult time. 
Following our adjudicators assessment, Mr H said that he was actually self-employed in 
1990. But this is very much at odds with the information that was provided initially where he 
gave details of his employer at the time and how long he had worked there etc. Regardless, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the policy was unsuitable for a self-employed person.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt provide as much information as it should have 
about the PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by 
any of those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might 
have been excluded under the policy. As I consider that Ms D and Mr H had an interest in 
the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them 
to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may 
have done wrong, so there is nothing that Bank of Scotland needs to do to put things right. It 
follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman