DRN-1704629
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham and Gloucester plc, 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in relation to a mortgage. For 
ease, Ill refer to the business as Lloyds for the majority of the rest of this decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 1993. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Whilst the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI covered Mr 
R alone for accident and sickness and unemployment. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case. Where there is missing or 
insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of 
probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, 
and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when key documents from the time of the 
sale are missing as they are here. However, considering these events happened over 26 
years ago, its not surprising that I dont have all the documents from the time of the sale. 
Mrs R recalls agreeing to the PPI but says that she and Mr R did so because they were told 
they had to. Ive not seen any evidence that supports that testimony. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr and Mrs R aware the PPI was optional. 
Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be 
able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all the submissions I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr and Mrs R aware 
that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though Mrs R may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr R was eligible for the policy and was not affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr and Mrs R seem to have had 
a need for the cover. Whilst Mr R had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six 
months, such that they may have needed to rely on some savings they said they had. Mrs R 
told us she wasnt sure exactly how much the savings were, but she thought the savings 
were substantial. But it seems that Mr and Mrs R chose to protect any savings they may 
have had by not using them to reduce the mortgage they were taking. This policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R was too ill to work and would have paid out in addition to 
whatever sick pay he had. And the policy would have further protected their savings and 
reduced their reliance on any help their family may have been in a position to offer them. 
And it would have provided some financial protection in the event Mr R lost his job. 
So thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy could have been useful for Mr and Mrs R if 
something went wrong. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs R, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better 
information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think 
Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
Mrs R told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs R 
only took the policy because they were put under pressure to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman