DRN-1324186
The complaint
Mr T complains that a representative of Sesame Limited mis-sold him an income protection 
and term assurance policies. To resolve his complaint, Mr T wants to be paid back the 
premiums he has paid from the outset of both policies, as they didnt offer him the cover he 
required.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr T spoke with an adviser from Oakhill Financial Services Ltd with a view 
to revisiting his personal protection policies. The Oakhill adviser was acting in the capacity of 
an appointed representative of Sesame Limited at the time of the advice. Sesame therefore 
takes responsibility for this complaint.
On 2 November 2018, the adviser sent a letter to Mr T summarising his understanding of Mr 
Ts needs at the time of the sale, and the recommendations he was proposing.
As a result, Mr T took out income protection and life assurance policies with a third party 
insurance company. These were to replace existing income protection and life assurance 
policies that he already held. The insurer wrote to Mr T directly regarding his policy 
applications and the new policies.
In September 2019, Mr T complained. He had received some correspondence from the 
insurer and this led him to review the nature of the policies that he had been sold.
Sesame issued a response on 31 October 2019. It said Mr Ts main financial objectives were 
to protect against the financial consequences of terminal illness and death, and to protect his 
income against the financial consequences of incapacity due to accident or illness. It said 
the adviser had made appropriate recommendations based on these needs. Whilst it 
unfortunately did not have record of the sales call available from Oakhill, it felt the 
documentation which was available showed the policies were made clear to Mr T. If he had 
been dissatisfied with the sale, he could have cancelled them or told the adviser that his 
needs were not being met.
Unhappy with that outcome, Mr T referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but said he did not think it should 
succeed. He said he didnt think the adviser had done anything wrong as the documentation 
from the time of the sale clearly detailed the advisers understating of Mr Ts requirements 
and the recommendations. He thought Mr T ought to have known when these policies were 
first arranged they didnt include cover if his lost his job. If this was something he wanted 
cover for he thought he should have returned to the adviser about that at the time.
Sesame didnt have anything to add. Mr T said he wanted the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman, as he didnt think the investigator had sufficiently investigated his complaint.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise Mr T feels strongly about the outcome of this complaint, I do agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator and for much the same reasons. That means I wont be 
asking Sesame to do anything more.
It is unfortunate that Sesame cannot obtain a copy of the telephone call recording from 
Oakhill, as it is good practice for it to retain sales calls. But, there is other contemporaneous 
evidence available from the time of the sale, including both fact find and recommendation 
documents produced by the adviser. Further, Mr Ts recollections are evidence I also take 
into account. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have decided what is the more likely to 
have happened, on balance.
While I realise Mr T says some form of insurance against the eventuality of him losing his 
employment was of paramount importance to him, I have not seen any evidence that the 
adviser was told that. But even if I accept this was the case, Mr T did not have to accept the 
recommendation made to him if it omitted something that he says was specifically important 
to him.
I note that one of the two policies Mr T was recommended to take out was a life assurance 
policy. This offered the same term and sum assured as his existing cover. The only 
differential is that it was offered by the same provider as the new income protection policy. 
Mr T has not actually made a complaint about this part of the sale or suggested it wasnt 
suitable for his circumstances.
Instead, what Mr T says is that when he reviewed the policy documentation for the income 
protection policy in 2019, he noted the policy didnt offer him specific cover in the event that 
he may suffer from unemployment. Mr T feels that the income protection policy ought to 
cover him in the event that he lost his job, and what it actually offered was income protection 
in the event of accident or illness only. Since Mr T said he had sought cover for the 
circumstances of his job loss, he felt the sale of both policies was inappropriate.
The new income protection policy was proposed to Mr T (at a marginally increased cost of 
an additional £7.29 per month) was because it provided a slightly higher monthly income 
after the chosen four week deferral period. Four weeks was chosen because Mr T only had 
full sick pay provisions with his employment for one month.
Income protection policies routinely offer insurance for a policyholder to receive a payment 
(after a chosen deferred period) in the event that he or she is unable to work because of 
illness or injury. There are other types of policies (more likely comprising payment protection 
insurance policies) which offer insurance to ensure payments of a specified amount usually 
matching a particular debt, in the event of accident, sickness, or unemployment (ASU). But, 
this is not the type of policy Mr T was recommended nor is there evidence that the adviser 
was told that Mr T held such a policy previously.
I note that on the fact find documentation, the adviser asked Mr T two specific questions 
around his needs. This was specifically if he wanted protection for the event that he was 
unable to work because of accident or illness and further in the event he was unable to work 
because of unemployment. Mr T was recorded as answering the first question positively, and 
the second question negatively. If he had answered differently, then I would reasonably 
expect the adviser to have referred to unemployment cover in his recommendations letter. 
As it was, he merely gave advice on the matters Mr T had expressed an interest in and set out that he was not reviewing needs for other insurance areas.
Further, the insurer wrote to Mr T on 29 October 2018 setting out that:
 
This document tells you what cover and premiums we can offer you and should be 
read together with the policy summary. The summary lets you know the key features 
and risks of the Living Costs Protection policy. You can find the full terms of the policy 
in the policy conditions. It's important you read this Acceptance Offer carefully as it 
details what is included or not included in your policy. Anything not included may be 
because you did not select it, or it was not available for you to select, or you selected it 
but due to our underwriting decision, it has been excluded.
About Living Costs Protection
If an illness or injury stops you working we'll pay you a monthly benefit to help you 
cover your living costs.
The policy documentation is clear that unemployment cover isnt a provision of Mr Ts 
particular income protection policy. I agree with the investigator that if he had felt that this 
was of utmost importance to him, that Mr T could have used the cancellation notice issued to 
him for one or both of the policies as well as informing Oakhills adviser of his concerns.
Since I havent seen any objective evidence that Mr T was misled about the nature of the 
policies sold to him  and specifically that he was told he would be insured for 
unemployment cover - I am not able to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman