DRN-4200889
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Consumer Finance 
(Novuna) has treated her unfairly in relation to a purchase she made using finance it 
provided to her.
What happened
Mrs K bought goods and services from a third party supplier that I will refer to as H. 
Specifically Mrs K contracted with H to both supply and install fitted furniture in her home. 
The installation works were meant to last three days. Mrs K made the purchase using 
finance provided by Novuna under a fixed sum loan. 
Mrs K complains that H who also acted as a credit broker in relation to the finance, 
misrepresented the goods. Specifically, the goods that were delivered and fitted were not the 
same goods Mrs K had been shown by Hs salesman.  Mrs K mentions information on Hs 
website which she indicates supports her stance. Moreover, the fitting was not carried out to 
a professional standard. Further, some of the goods were not fit for purpose. 
Mrs K complained immediately and had the worked stopped (after one day of work had been 
completed). Moreover, Mrs K asked Novuna not to pay H whilst the dispute was ongoing. 
However, despite this Novuna released the funds to H. Mrs K thinks Novuna acted 
incorrectly by releasing the funds under the loan to H even though she was in dispute with H 
at the time.
Mrs K complained to Novuna. Mrs K did not believe things could be put right as a result she 
asked that the loan be cancelled, and the goods removed. 
Novuna responded that it was not its role to review the actions of H as a retailer. But it did 
accept that since it had provided the credit to finance the purchase it has to look at the 
complaint from that perspective. 
However, once it looked at what had happened, Novuna did not accept that Mrs K has 
demonstrated that the goods were misrepresented. Neither did Novuna agree that Mrs K 
had the right to reject the goods even before the installation had been completed. 
Moreover, Novuna indicated that although Mrs K had made her purchase under a buy now 
pay later arrangement with H, and was in dispute with H, this did not mean it had been 
wrong to pay H. Rather, under the terms of the loan agreement it (Novuna) was obliged to 
activate the finance agreement once H told it the goods had been supplied. H treated the 
contract as if the goods had been supplied because it had gone as far as it could given that 
Mrs K would not allow it access to her home to finish the job. Novuna accepted this 
approach.
However, Novuna did note that it had not recorded the information it should have done when 
Mrs K first contacted it. Despite admitting to an error Novuna did not offer compensation in 
acknowledgement of its mistake. Rather, it offered a goodwill gesture (a goodwill gesture is 
something a business offers when it considers it has not done anything wrong but wants to 
offer a gesture nonetheless to the person who is complaining). By way of a goodwill gesture 
Novuna took £125 off Mrs Ks account balance. However, it did also say it was upholding her 
complaint on the basis it should have responded to her sooner.
Dissatisfied with Novunas response Mrs K complained to our service.
Once Mrs Ks complaint was with our service Novuna provided further information from the 
Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman (FHIO) who had looked at a claim Mrs K 
had made against H in relation to her purchase from it.  The conclusion that the FHIO 
reached was.
The business [meaning H] has offered to return and complete the works in line with their 
contractual obligations. I therefore endorse this offer plus compensation of £264.00 for the 
delay and inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Novuna had to take any further action.
Novuna accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs K did not. Ive summarised below 
why Mrs K rejected our investigators recommendation. She told us:
H acted as a credit broker in relation to the loan provided by Novuna and H has 
misrepresented the goods in order to obtain a commission from Novuna.
Mrs K believes H has admitted that the installation works are not of satisfactory 
quality therefore there has been a breach of contract, on this basis Mrs K should be 
allowed to reject the entirety of the contracts with both H and Novuna.
Even though Mrs K wants to reject the goods, as a plan B, Mrs K is willing to 
compromise by taking the doors that H is offering but she does not wish to pay extra 
for the mirrors which is what H wants her to do.
Novuna should not have activated the loan when Mrs K was in dispute with H. 
Moreover, H has agreed with Mrs Ks stance on this.
Mrs K asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
New issues I cant deal with in this complaint
Mrs K suggests that H chose to mislead her because it wanted a commission from Novuna 
in relation to the finance agreement. But while she believes this is true it is an entirely new 
issue, and she has provided no evidence to support this. Moreover, this complaint point, has 
not been considered by Novuna in its final response to Mrs K or investigated within this 
complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this decision.
This complaint is against Novuna only
Mrs Ks contract of sale is with H only. Mrs K indicates she might, by way of compromise, be 
willing to vary the terms of the contract with H.  But it is a well-established principle of 
contract law that a contract cannot (as a general rule) confer rights or impose obligations 
arising under it on any person except the parties to it.  Novuna is not a party to the contract 
of sale so it cannot accept this variation, and neither can I make it. Moreover, I have no power to make H accept any variation to the contract of sale that Mrs K might be willing to 
make as a compromise.
Why Im satisfied on balance that there was no misrepresentation or breach of contract
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Mrs K paid for her purchase by way of a loan supplied by Novuna. H is the supplier in 
relation to the goods supplied under the loan. That means that Mrs K has the benefit of both 
Section 75 and Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against Novuna provided 
certain conditions are met. 
Amongst other things, Section 56 creates a form of deemed statutory agency, in that what 
the section refers to as antecedent negotiations between a supplier and a consumer are 
deemed to be conducted by the supplier in the capacity of an agent of the creditor. 
Moreover, Section 56 provides that the creditor can be liable for representations made by 
the supplier in the course of those antecedent negotiations.
Due to the effect of both Section 75 and Section 56 Novuna can be held to account for 
misrepresentations made by H. Moreover due to Section 75 Novuna can also be held to 
account for breaches of contract on the part of H. Ill look at each in turn.
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact made by H that induced 
Mrs K to enter into the contract. Specifically Mrs K tells us that H misrepresented the 
furniture range it was selling her. She asked for what Ill call range 1 and in fact she was sold 
something else that I will call range 2.
Mrs K talks about what Hs website says. I think this is irrelevant as it does not seem that 
Mrs K viewed the information on the website prior to purchasing. In any event information on 
Hs website for ranges 1 and 2 appears to be correct, so I dont see how this would help Mrs 
K.
Rather Mrs K indicates that Hs salesman verbally misrepresented the contract in that he told 
her she was getting range 1 and in fact she was sold range 2. She was also shown a sample 
for range 1 by the salesman. But Mrs K did not enter into the contract solely based on the 
pre-contractual negotiations. Rather, there were also written contractual documents that 
stated, reasonably clearly and prominently the basis on which the parties were contracting. 
The difficulty for Mrs K is that when I am trying to decide what it is that the parties contracted 
for I think it is appropriate to look at the written documentation. And that indicates that H 
provided the goods Mrs K ordered. Moreover it seems likely to me Mrs K would have seen at 
least some of this contractual documentation before the sale was finalised therefore I find it 
surprising that she did not object at this point if this information contradicted what shed 
agreed verbally.
Thats not to say I discount the possibility that the salesman said one thing but documented 
another. But by their very nature such alleged verbal conditions are hard to substantiate, and 
I therefore have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities. To do that 
I look at the wider circumstances of the complaint.  I have Mrs Ks version of what happened, 
but I also have a detailed account from the designer, Im not sure if this person is a different 
person from the salesman who Mrs K mentions. I also have a statement from the surveyor, 
again I dont know if this is the salesman. Both indicate that Mrs K selected the range she 
wanted, and this was noted down correctly. I dont find it likely that both individuals 
independently would have got this wrong. Or alternatively that they acted in tandem to give 
Mrs K incorrect information.On the balance of probabilities when I look at all the information I have available to me, Im 
not persuaded by what Mrs K says about misrepresentation. It follows I dont uphold this part 
of her complaint.
Ill now turn to Mrs Ks complaint point about the breach of contract.
Mrs K is a consumer, H is a trader. I think the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is also 
relevant law in relation to this contract.
The CRA implies certain terms into the type of contract that Mrs K and H made. In particular, 
the CRA provides that in relation to services supplied by the trader to the consumer, these 
will be performed with reasonable skill and care. In relation the goods, the CRA provides 
these will be of satisfactory quality. 
I does not appear to be in dispute that the work was scheduled to take 3 days and only 1 day 
of work has been done. So it is not surprising to see that the work is unfinished. 
One of Mrs Ks points is that the work that has been done so far is not up to scratch. Even 
Novuna seems to concede that some of the internal fitting work was going to have to be 
redone. But that work was work-in-progress not the final result and I think that is significant 
distinction. I say this because whilst I accept Mrs K thought things were not looking good at 
the end of day one, until the work was actually completed I cant fairly say the work was not 
done with reasonable skill or care. She had not got the finished product yet and it may well 
have been that the remedial work would have been done on the job.
I dont agree that H has conceded that the work was not done with reasonable skill and care, 
as far as I can see what it is saying is that some of the work-in-progress would need to be 
redone. But as I have already mentioned it had not finished the job yet and it may well have 
sorted things out by the time the job was completed.
Moreover, Mrs K tells us the doors were faulty. It is not clear if she means all the doors or 
some of them. Ive already mentioned the CRA says goods supplied under this type of 
contract must be of satisfactory quality. Goods will be of satisfactory quality if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. In any event, Ive not got 
sufficient information for me to say the doors were not of satisfactory quality based on what 
she says or what H says.
I note the report from the FHIO does not conclude that the services or goods did not meet 
the required standard so can be rejected. Rather it finds H should be allowed to finish the 
work. It is an expert in this area, and I find its stance persuasive.
For all of these reasons, it follows I dont uphold this part of Mrs Ks complaint.
Why I find that Novuna acted appropriately in releasing the funds to H
Mrs Ks position is that Novuna should not have released the funds to H while she was in 
dispute with H. But nothing in the contract or the law says that just because a debtor is 
disputing a quality issue with the supplier, the supplier is not entitled to call for and receive 
the credit used to make a purchase. Even if the purchase was made under buy now pay 
later terms. 
Mrs K tells us H supports her stance on this issue. If it did though it would not have asked 
Novuna for the money or it would have returned it. Moreover, Hs stance is not the deciding 
factor here. 
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mrs Ks complaint.
It follows from everything Ive said above I dont find that Ive any proper basis to tell Novuna 
it has to take any further steps. 
Just for completeness I make this observation, I found it confusing that Novuna both offered 
a goodwill gesture but at the same time said it was upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Its actions were contradictory. However, Mrs K has not complained about this, so I make no finding 
about it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman