DRN-3472926
The complaint
Mrs L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited did not provide any assistance under her 
private medical insurance policy when she needed urgent investigations. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs Ls GP advised that she needed immediate investigations after shed 
approached them with bleeding. Mrs L says she then called two BUPA recognised hospitals 
directly, but as both said theyd be unable to see her until January 2021 returned to her GP 
who referred her on to the NHS. Mrs L was seen via the NHS, and fortunately went on to 
receive an all clear result following an investigative procedure.
Mrs L complained to BUPA about the above. She said shed been a loyal customer for more 
than 40 years and BUPA had failed her when she had needed help. Mrs L said she was 
paying for a service that BUPA could obviously not support, and she was now owed some 
compensation for what had been a very stressful incident. 
BUPA said it was sorry to hear Mrs L had issues during her time of need, but said she hadnt 
actually claimed via her policy and the policy was not designed for emergency care. BUPA 
reiterated the process for claiming, and also advised that it didnt employ or regulate the 
private consultants or hospitals that it recognised  it just approved for them to see its 
members. BUPA asked that in future Mrs L contact them, as had she done so at the time 
there was a good chance it would have been able to provide details of an available 
consultant because it wasnt aware of any delays in her area. 
With regard to the value of the policy, BUPA said it would look to see if Mrs L was eligible for 
a procedure cash benefit and asked that she provide her discharge paperwork. It also said 
there were many benefits available through Mrs Ls policy, and what was and wasnt covered 
was made available in Mrs Ls renewal pack in order for her to decide if the policy offered the 
level of cover and value that shed want. 
Unhappy with BUPAs position Mrs L referred her complaint to this service. She said shed 
been mentally impacted by the trauma of BUPAs rejection, and the anxiety that came with 
waiting for help that never came still remained with her. To put things right Mrs L said BUPA 
should pay compensation for the trauma, stress and anxiety that had been caused, and so 
one of our investigators looked at what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. They said BUPA hadnt been made aware 
that Mrs L had a medical problem requiring investigation at the time, so it wasnt fair to find 
that it hadnt helped. They also said that while the impact of private hospitals supporting the 
NHS in a joint response to the Covid-19 pandemic had caused some unavailability within the 
private field, this was outside of BUPAs control. And they said BUPAs position regarding 
the rebates it would be calculating for all of its customers was fair. 
Mrs L disagreed and said she was both disappointed and disgusted with that opinion. She 
said she had tried to contact BUA at the time and the two private hospitals shed contacted 
had not mentioned contacting BUPA; rather, theyd just told her they had no room. Mrs L 
said that BUPA had offered her £100 towards her stay in the NHS but she was not prepared 
to accept that, and it was only her NHS doctor that was there to help.
So, the complaint is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L clearly feels very strongly about what happened. I am pleased to hear that she was 
given the all clear and appreciate just how worried she must have been at the time. Although 
a number of arguments have been put forward, my findings will only address those that I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
For the reasons Ill now explain I will not be upholding Mrs Ls complaint:
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy explain what a policy holder should do in 
the event of needing treatment  namely that process involves making BUPA aware 
of the need to claim. Mrs L didnt make BUPA aware that she was experiencing a 
medical problem, nor that she had been told by her GP that she needed 
investigations into it. So BUPA did not know that she needed anything from it, and 
consequently I dont think it was given the opportunity to provide any assistance 
through her policy. 
I appreciate Mrs L says the two BUPA recognised hospitals she contacted both said 
they had no room for her, but I cant fairly hold BUPA liable for that. BUPA is 
responsible for authorising and providing coverage for eligible treatment. And, I think 
it rightly explained that it doesnt employ or regulate the practitioners or hospitals it 
recognises  rather, it just approves those practitioners and/or facilities to see its 
members. It is of course disappointing that the hospitals Mrs L contacted werent able 
to help at the time, but again thats not something I can hold BUPA liable for. 
Mrs L has been a long-standing customer of BUPA and it is clear she feels very 
strongly about paying for a service she says BUPA could not support. For the 
reasons already explained however, I cannot fairly conclude that BUPA did not 
provide a service as I dont think it was given the opportunity to do so prior to Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
That being said, had Mrs L told BUPA what was happening at the time of needing 
treatment and following her GP visit, I would have expected it to provide assistance 
in line with the policy terms. And I note that BUPA has already set out theres a good 
chance it would have been able to give Mrs L the name of an available consultant as 
it wasnt aware of any delays in her areas. 
While I empathise with the impact Mrs L says matters had on her, Im not persuaded 
BUPA was responsible for this and it wouldnt be fair of me to direct it to pay 
compensation. I know Mrs L has told this service she does not wish to accept the 
NHS cash benefit BUPA has since offered to her, and that is of course her choice.
Mrs L is likely to be further disappointed by my findings, but this decision now brings 
to an end what this service can do (in relation to Mrs Ls current complaint) for her.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman