DRN-4198747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc declining their home insurance 
(buildings) claim.
AXA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Some of this complaint concerns the 
actions of AXAs appointed agents. As AXA accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to AXA should be interpreted as also covering the 
actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H, Mrs H and AXA. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr and Mrs H had a home insurance policy with AXA. In 2022 a heating engineer found a 
leaking waste pipe in Mr and Mrs Hs property. Mr and Mrs H registered a claim with AXA to 
have the damage repaired. AXA arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and they 
ultimately declined the claim. They said that the damage was gradual and happened over a 
period of time, pre-policy inception.
Mr and Mrs H complained to AXA. They didnt uphold their main complaint (the declined 
claim) but did offer a total of £100 in recognition that they couldve handled the claim better.
As they remained unhappy, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator most recently recommended that the complaint not be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept and the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I 
recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. For example, both parties 
are already aware that these events have been going on for an extensive amount of time  
over a number of years and Ive only summarised the key points of the background earlier in 
my decision.
Both parties acknowledged receiving my provisional decision and I can issue the final 
decision prior to the deadline set. As no material new evidence has been provided, I find no 
fair or reasonable reason to deviate from my provisional findings.
The test Im applying in this decision is: have AXA fairly and reasonably considered this 
claim in line with the policy terms before declining it?. This is important as I know Mr and 
Mrs H want our Service to make a definitive finding on what has caused the damage. But 
thats not the role of our Service here. Ill be looking at whether AXAs position taken (to 
decline the claim) is fair in light of the available evidence.
AXA declined this claim as they said (in summary) that the overall damage being claimed for 
wasnt solely caused by the waste pipe leaking water for an indefinite period of time - but by 
general damp issues within the property that appeared to have been ongoing for a number 
of years, possibly pre-policy inception and could be related to the construction of the 
property.
Its not in dispute that there were two leaks here. The 2019 bathroom leak and the kitchen 
waste pipe leak. Ive disregarded the boiler/heating leak as being related to the damage 
being claimed for given what Mr H has said about the very low volume of water related to 
this. I agree with him that its irrelevant.
Whats at the heart of this complaint is whether or not the kitchen waste pipe leak is the 
proximate cause of the overall damage Mr and Mrs H are claiming for here.
In support of their position, AXA pointed to a call recording from 2019 when Mr H tried to 
make a claim for damage at his property. In that call, Mr H explained that when having a new 
bathroom fitted it was discovered that a pipe had possibly been leaking for a few years and it 
had caused damp issues under the flooring (amongst other damage). It was explained to Mr 
H that he only had contents cover and the call ended. Mr H later added buildings cover.
Mr and Mrs H have said that the issues with damage from that problem had been fixed in 
2019. In an email to AXA they stated:
We had to pay for a dehumidifier for a few days just to dry out the floor and the wall, 
extra labour and materials to pay for the additional work on the floor and extra work 
to rectify the situation as this was not in our original quote.
AXA also referred to their surveyors visit to Mr and Mrs Hs property when they were told 
that problems with damp started around four years previously. Mr and Mrs H dispute this and 
have explained that the reference to four years was in relation to when they think they first 
noticed paint flaking on their spare bedroom wall. They say they considered it a minor issue 
and it wasnt until their heating engineer discovered a leaking pipe behind a cavity wall that 
they realised it was a symptom, possibly related to a more serious issue. That engineer said 
that the waste pipe from the kitchen sink/dishwasher had completely separated, causing 
water to run out and damage the shower stud wall, block wall and the floor between the 
shower wall.
Ive then considered AXAs surveyors report. Their ultimate conclusion was that the wider 
damage being claimed for wasnt consistent with the claim circumstances. Ive included 
some relevant comments below:
The damage to other areas is an ongoing hereditary damp issue and is not 
consistent with the leaking pipe as there are no wet areas in between on the floor of 
around the edges, as per my on-site findings. you would expect the floor in the 
boiler room to be saturated and severely damaged with it being below the alleged 
leak but not the case.
Importantly here, based on this evidence, the level of moisture in the flooring is not 
consistent with a considerable leak, possibly over a period of time.
I note Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the water building up behind the wall and I 
understand AXAs view point that they might have expected to see much greater water damage to the flooring if this was the case, as a result of water seeping out over time. Again, 
what Ive seen is evidence of a general damp problem within their property across multiple 
areas of the house.
Mr H has provided another opinion from a damp proofing expert who added that they felt 
there had been water underneath the flooring and the damp issues in the hallway are directly 
related to the kitchen waste pipe leak (through condensation). But Im not sufficiently 
persuaded that this opinion overrides the counter evidence in this complaint.
However, whilst I find that AXA have largely fairly considered this claim, it remains that a 
secondary escape of water has occurred here and the policy hasnt responded at all. I find 
AXA have not sufficiently shown that the secondary escape took place prior to policy 
inception. I note after our Investigators initial assessment, AXA made an offer to arrange a 
further site visit from an experienced loss adjuster. Given the complexities of this claim, I find 
this to be a positive offer and in my opinion is the best opportunity to achieve a fair outcome 
for both parties here.
I need to temper Mr Hs expectations here as Im not directing AXA to settle any claim. Ive 
found that AXA have done enough to show that the proximate cause of wider issues with his 
property wasnt caused by this second escape of water. But as Ive said above, it remains 
that some damage will have been attributable to the secondary escape of water - given the 
relatively high level of water thats been described by Mr H and the drying out thats occurred 
naturally since the leak was stopped.
Service issues
I find the previous offer of £100 that AXA made to Mr and Mrs H in recognition of how theyd 
handled this claim to be broadly fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Summary
Having considered the evidence as a whole, I find that AXAs position that the majority of the 
damage began because of a loss prior to policy inception to be reasonable.
The kitchen pipe leak may well have made some contribution to the wider damage to Mr and 
Mrs Hs property, but I find that AXA have fairly concluded that its not the proximate cause 
for the wider damage being claimed for. However, as outlined the policy hasnt responded at 
all to a secondary escape of water event here and I find that further investigation is needed 
before AXA could fairly, fully decline the claim.
The fairest way forward here is for AXA to arrange a final appropriately experienced loss 
adjuster to visit Mr Hs property. Once this has been completed, AXA should reconsider any 
damage directly attributable to the kitchen waste pipe leak in line with the remaining policy 
terms. I understand that Mr H recently had some repair works carried out and this should be 
taken into consideration by AXA  dependent on their findings.
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc need to arrange with Mr H to send out an appropriately experienced 
loss adjuster to his property.
Should they fairly conclude that there is damage directly attributable to the second escape of 
water (the kitchen waste pipe), they will need to reconsider this in line with the remaining 
policy terms.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman