DRN-3035696
The complaint
Mr P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his account and 
registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr P received a large number of payments into his NatWest account. Several 
of the people whod paid Mr P reported that hed scammed them and never sent the goods. 
NatWest blocked Mr Ps account temporarily and asked him for his side of the story.
Mr P explained that he sold watches on social media. He said he had no idea why several 
customers had reported that hed scammed them. He provided tracking references to show 
that hed sent the goods involved.
NatWest unblocked Mr Ps account. But they later received a stream of further reports from 
other banks that Mr P had scammed their customers. They closed his account and 
registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr P says he just got overwhelmed with orders and made some mistakes, but he didnt 
deliberately scam anyone. He said that while his account was blocked, he couldnt see 
whether customers had paid him or not, which had led to further delays in sending out their 
orders. Our investigator asked if Mr P could give us any records of the orders hed received, 
his correspondence with his customers, or tracking information to show hed sent the goods 
involved. That would help evidence hed been genuine. But Mr P said hed forgotten his login 
details and so he couldnt give us any of this.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that while they understood the temporary block would have made things harder, 
Mr P could have just asked customers for proof of payment. And hed used much of the 
money involved to make very large payments  so it looked like he had been aware hed 
received many of these sums. Further, Mr Ps customers had said hed blocked them when 
they tried to chase things up. And many of the scam reports came after Mr Ps account had 
been unblocked  indeed, NatWest were still receiving reports a year later.
Mr P didnt agree. He felt he was being unfairly punished for simple mistakes. He said his 
online auction account was now deleted, so he couldnt give us any evidence that these 
were genuine transactions. He asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, NatWest were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr P had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think that NatWest did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
NatWest didnt just receive a few scam reports  they received dozens. And these different 
customers were able to give consistent testimony about how Mr P had misled them. A large 
number of different banks have said that Mr P received funds obtained fraudulently.
Mr P says he just got overwhelmed with orders, and that these delays were exacerbated by 
the days where his bank account was blocked. I understand where hes coming from and 
Ive considered this point carefully. 
NatWest continued receiving reports that Mr P had scammed customers for months and 
months after they closed his account. Some customers waited a very long time indeed for 
their goods before reporting that theyd been scammed  indeed, NatWest have still been 
receiving reports in recent months, over a year later. So I do not think it is plausible that Mr P 
simply had a backlog of orders  if that were the case, hed have cleared it a long time ago.
Mr P also said that because of the block being in place, he couldnt see whod paid him. As 
our investigator pointed out, he couldve just asked customers for proof of payment. But 
even setting that point aside, Mr P spent a great deal of the fraudulent money he received, 
so it looks like he was actually aware he received it. And even after the block was lifted, 
customers continued to report that Mr P had taken their money and never sent what theyd 
paid for. So it doesnt look like the block was the issue here. It looks like Mr P was taking 
customers money and not sending them what theyd paid for.
Further, Mr Ps customers have consistently said that he not only didnt reply to their 
communications, but actively blocked them. So again, this strongly points to Mr Ps activity 
not being genuine.
If Mr P were running a genuine business, I would have expected him to be able to evidence 
what was ordered, what hed sent, and what contact hed had with each customer. Mr P was 
able to give NatWest tracking references for the first three scam reports. But aside from that, 
Mr P has not given us a single piece of evidence to show that the other money he received 
was genuine. And the evidence weve asked for would not be difficult or onerous to get  
indeed, it should have really been quite simple to get.
Mr P says hes forgotten his login details. But according to both Mr Ps testimony and his 
customers, Mr P was using multiple different platforms to sell his goods  including social 
media, an online auction website, and an independent website. So its highly unlikely that 
Mr P forgot his login details for all the platforms involved. Further, these platforms have 
facilities to recover ones account if one forgets ones login details. So even if Mr P had 
somehow forgotten all of his login details for all of these accounts at the same time, he 
should still have been able to recover them. And even if one of those accounts got deleted 
without his permission somehow, the other ones would still exist. So while Mr P has given us 
reasons why he cannot evidence his activity, I do not find these reasons to be plausible.Lastly, I note that while Mr P told NatWest he was selling watches, his customers say he 
was selling completely different items, including goods which should have been illegal for 
him to sell. This also makes it difficult for me to support his testimony.
In summary, Mr P has received and spent money which was reported as fraudulent by a 
tremendous number of different sources, who were able to give consistent reports of how he 
defrauded them. The evidence does not support Mr Ps assertion that these were mistakes, 
and for the vast majority of the activity involved he has not been able to provide any 
evidence at all that it was genuine  despite such evidence being relatively easy to get. 
Mr Ps testimony does not match with what his various customers say. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr P was intentionally defrauding 
them. So I think that NatWest did have sufficient grounds to register this CIFAS marker. This 
is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr P to receive. 
But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
It follows that I also think NatWest had sufficient reason to close Mr Ps account. I can see 
that they did so in line with the terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman