DRN-3939580
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC, declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G purchased an annual multi trip travel insurance policy on 25 April 2022, through an 
intermediary. The insurer for the policy was Zurich, and the start date on the policy was 
7 May 2022  which was the same date Mr G was due to go on holiday. 
Unfortunately, on 6 May 2022, Mr G tested positive for Covid-19. As Mr G was positive for 
the virus, he was no longer able to go on holiday. Because Mr G was no longer able to go on 
holiday he made a claim under his travel insurance policy, for the losses he incurred.
Zurich considered Mr Gs claim and declined it. It said that Mr G needed to cancel his trip, 
due to contracting Covid-19. But at the point Mr G tested positive for the virus his policy 
hadnt started. So, there was no cover under the policy for him needing to cancel the trip 
before the policys start date.
Mr G didnt feel this was fair. Mr G said that his policy did provide cancellation cover, in 
instances where he tested positive for Covid-19. And he felt he had cover at the point he had 
needed to cancel his policy, given the policy started on 7 May 2022. 
Zurich maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr G referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. They said that Mr G didnt have 
cover under his policy prior to 7 May 2022. And because Mr G tested positive for Covid-19, 
which meant he needed to cancel his trip, before the policy started, there was no cover in 
place for Mr Gs loss. 
Mr G didnt agree. In summary, he said that he:
Was fully vaccinated, as per all guidelines.
Had needed to take the Covid-19 Antigen test on 6 May 2022, rather than 7 May 
2022 as a negative Covid-19 test was needed in the 24 hours before travel. And it 
wouldnt have been feasible to take the test on 7 May 2022, when he needed to be at 
the airport.
Still had Covid-19 on 7 May 2022, when he was due to travel. And it was having 
Covid-19 on that date, when his policy started, which meant he needed to claim 
under his policy. And the policy did detail cover for cancellation due to Covid-19.
Felt the policy was mis-leading.
As Mr G didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Zurich to do 
anything more.
I appreciate this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr G. But Id like to reassure the 
parties that I have considered all of the information submitted by both parties and taken this 
into account when arriving at my final decision. But Ive only referenced what I consider to be 
necessary to explain my decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Zurich acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr Gs claim. And Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr Gs policy documentation. And I can see that the policy started on 7 May 
2022. So, Im aware there is no cover under the policy until that date.
Mr G contracted Covid-19 prior to his policy start date. And this was evidenced with a 
positive test on 6 May 2022. Given that the reason Mr G needed to claim was for contracting 
Covid-19, which happened before the policy began, Im satisfied Zurich acted reasonably in 
declining Mr Gs claim.
Mr G has said the fact he tested positive for Covid-19 on 6 May 2022 is irrelevant. Hes said 
the key information is that he tested positive on 7 May 2022, and for several days after. At 
which point his policy was in operation. And I accept that Mr G was likely positive for Covid-
19 on 7 May 2022 as well. But as above, he had contracted Covid-19 prior to this date, and it 
was that which gave rise to him needing to cancel his holiday. So, this point doesnt alter the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Mr G feels the policy is misleading. But I dont agree. The Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) Mr G was provided with explains that his policy starts on the date shown in 
the certificate of insurance. And Mr Gs policy certificate is clear in noting the start date f the 
policy is 7 May 2022. The policy booklet Mr G was provided with does explain there is cover for testing positive for 
Covid-19 and needing to cancel a trip. But, as with all insurance policies, the documents 
provided need to be read together. The policy booklet explains the cover, at the point the 
policy is in force. And as above, the certificate shows the start and end date of the policy  
highlighting when the cover is live. Given that I think the documents were clear, I dont think 
Zurich was misled by Zurich as to the cover under his policy, and when that began. 
It appears that Mr Gs policy was purchased through an intermediary. So, Zurich werent 
responsible for selling the policy, or information provided at that point. As Zurich arent 
responsible for the policy sale, I havent considered what information Mr G saw at that point. 
And it doesnt have a bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Zurich Insurance Plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman