DRN-3783147
The complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a claim he made on an income 
protection insurance policy,
What happened
Mr W took out a personal income protection insurance policy in 2019, through a broker. The 
policy provided cover if Mr W was unable to work due to accident or sickness. And it 
included a waiting period (or deferred period) of 90 days. Mr W was working in two jobs  
one full-time role from home and a separate self-employed, part-time job.
Unfortunately, on 26 April 2022, Mr W was involved in an accident and suffered fracture 
injuries. He was signed-off from his full-time job until 5 June 2022 and returned to this role 
on 6 June 2022. However, he remained unfit to return to his part-time job. Mr W made a 
claim on his income protection insurance policy.
Lloyds turned down Mr Ws claim. It said that Mr W had chosen a waiting period of 90 days, 
which meant hed have needed to be medically signed-off for a continuous period of 90 days 
before benefit would be due. But as Mr W had returned to his full-time job after 40 days, 
Lloyds said he wasnt entitled to any benefit under the policy for his self-employed role 
either.
Mr W was unhappy with Lloyds decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that in order for a claim to be paid, a policyholder had to be unable to work for 
the duration of the waiting period. In this case, Lloyds considered a policyholder to be 
working if they worked more than 16 hours. As Mr W had returned to his full-time job some 
time before the policy waiting period expired, the investigator thought Lloyds had been 
entitled to turn down Mr Ws claim.
Mr W disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, its clear that Mr W suffered painful injuries in the accident, which left him unable to 
return to his self-employed role. I dont doubt what a stressful time this mustve been for Mr 
W and I do hope his recovery is progressing well.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making this decision, Ive 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his 
claim, to decide whether Lloyds has treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ws 
contract with Lloyds. Mr W made a claim for incapacity due to an accident, so I think it was 
appropriate for Lloyds to consider the claim under section two  Accident, Sickness and 
Hospitalisation Cover. This section of the policy provides the following cover:
If you are working and, after the policy transfer date, you suffer from an accident or 
sickness, including hospitalisation, one monthly benefit will be paid to you upon expiry of:
-Your excess period (as stated on your Police Schedule); and
-Your waiting period (as stated on your Policy Schedule).
N.B You must be unable to work for the duration of the waiting period applicable to your 
claim in order to receive your first monthly benefit payment.
The policy states that benefit will be paid until:
The date you return to work.
Lloyds has defined waiting period as follows: The period shown on your Policy Schedule 
in which you will need to be continuouslyunable to work due to accident, sickness or 
hospitalisationin order to be entitled to receive your monthly benefit.
And Lloyds has also defined what it means by work/working. The contract says: You are 
in permanent employment, a contract workeror are self-employed or a company director 
for 16 hours or more each week in the UK.
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that Lloyds will only pay accident and sickness 
benefit once a policyholder has been unable to work for the entirety of their policy waiting 
period. And that it will stop paying benefit once a policyholder has returned to work for more 
than 16 hours per week.
It's clear that Mr W did suffer painful injuries in an accident. Theres no doubt that not only 
was he signed-off from work, he was also hospitalised for a few days. But in order for 
Lloyds to be liable to pay benefit, Mr W needs to show that he was unable to work for the 
entirety of his waiting period. In this case, Mr Ws policy schedule shows that a waiting 
period of 90 days was selected. Broadly, as Mr Ws accident happened on 26 April 2022, a 
90-day waiting period wouldve expired on 25 July 2022.
Mr Ws employer for his full-time role completed part of his claim form. It stated that Mr W 
had returned to work on 6 June 2022, for 40 hours per week. This date was around 50 days 
before the waiting period was due to expire. As such then, its clear that Mr W wasnt 
continuously unable to work for less than 16 hours per week, for a 90-day period. 
I do appreciate that Mr W was still considered medically unfit to carry out his self-employed 
role and that hes lost income through being unable to carry out that role while he recovers. 
But I think the policy is clear enough that Lloyds considers that a policyholder has returned 
to work and is no longer entitled to monthly benefit if theyve returned to work for more than 
16 hours a week. And in this case, the evidence shows that after 6 June 2022, Mr W was 
working significantly more than 16 hours per week. So I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds 
to conclude that Mr Ws claim wasnt covered.
Having considered the file, it seems Mr W was concerned about the length of the waiting 
period. Its important to point out though that Lloyds didnt sell the policy to Mr W and so, it wasnt involved in selecting Mr Ws waiting period. If Mr W feels that the policy was mis-sold 
to him, hed need to complain to the broker which sold it to him.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ws position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Lloyds to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman