DRN-3452090
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFUM)
unfairly valued his pick-up when he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws pick-up was involved in an accident and declared a total loss, so Mr W claimed on
his policy. NFUM reviewed the claim and accepted it, it used two trade guides to value Mr
Ws pick-up and offered Mr W £19,500, minus his excess. Mr W didnt think this was enough
and complained.
NFUM reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the valuation didnt include VAT as
Mr W is VAT registered. NFUM also said its offer was in line with the valuation guides used.
Mr W doesnt agree hes been offered enough and referred his complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found what while NFUM had used two
valuation guides, the lowest value was £19,750 and NFUM had deducted £250 for mileage.
As Mr Ws pick-up had less than average mileage for its age, our investigator didnt think this
was fair and recommended NFUM pay Mr W the additional £250. NFUM didnt agree, it said
it had also researched the market and found pick-ups similar to Mr Ws which were going for
the same amount it had paid Mr W, when VAT was deducted.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 May 2022 where I said:
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
NFUM provided evidence of the two trade guides it used, however on one of them the date
of loss isnt correct, so Ive re-run this valuation as well as obtaining a value from another
guide we have access to, which NFUM didnt use. The valuations they gave are £20,919,
£19,750 and £19,446, not including VAT.
NFUMs offer is within the range of the guides but is at the lower end. Id only think its fair
and reasonable to offer at the lowest end of the range if there is justification for it. In this
case NFUM has provided adverts for similar pick-ups to Mr Ws which advertise them for
£19,450, £18,170, £18,490 and £19,495.
As the adverts support NFUMs valuation which is within the range of the guides. Im not
persuaded its acted unfairly with the valuation it reached. So, Im not going to tell NFUM to
pay anything more.
Mr W didnt respond by the date requested. NFUM responded and said it didnt have any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor NFUM had further comments for me to consider in response to my 
provisional decision. I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman