DRN-4330483
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs I complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave them misleading information 
about how long they would have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs I have a mortgage with Barclays. They took a five year fixed rate in 2018, 
expiring on 31 October 2023.
In 2022, concerned about the impact of rising interest rates, they decided to end their fixed 
rate early and take a new ten year fixed rate. They consulted a mortgage broker to help 
them with the application.
Barclays told Mr G and Mrs Is broker that they had 150 days to pay the ERC, so the broker 
submitted an application on their behalf. Barclays then said that in fact a rate switch offer 
would only be valid for 90 days, and that Mr G and Mrs I would need to pay the ERC within 
30 days of receiving a payment request. They would have to pay it direct; it couldnt be 
added to their mortgage balance without a full affordability assessment. An affordability 
assessment isnt usually needed on a rate switch application as the balance isnt increasing 
 but adding the ERC would increase the balance.
On 20 October 2022 Barclays told Mr G and Mrs I that the ERC would be around £22,000 
and said they would have 30 days to pay it for their rate switch application to be effective. 
Mr G and Mrs I complained about the misleading information theyd been given. Following 
their complaint, Barclays told their broker that they had 30 days to pay the ERC  but again 
told Mr G and Mrs I direct that they had 150 days.
Barclays extended the deadline for paying the ERC to 31 December 2022. It offered £200 
compensation for the contradictory information it had given about the deadline for making 
payment. Mr G and Mrs I paid the ERC and their product switch completed in January 2023, 
taking effect from 1 March 2023.
Mr G and Mrs I brought their complaint to us. They said that Barclays had repeatedly given 
them misleading information. It had repeatedly delayed in communicating with them, both 
about the ERC and their complaint, and not responded when it said it would. They said it 
only confirmed the deadline for making payment in mid-December, leaving them a short time 
over the festive period to find a large sum of money. And they complain that Barclays 
wouldnt email them its response as they requested. To resolve their complaint they want 
Barclays to refund the ERC. 
Our investigator agreed that Barclays had provided poor service and given Mr G and Mrs I 
conflicting and misleading information. He didnt think it would be fair to refund the ERC, 
since Mr G and Mrs I would always have had to pay it. But he said it should increase its offer 
of compensation to £400.
Mr G and Mrs I didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
said that the ERC was only 3% of their mortgage balance, so adding the ERC to the balance 
wouldnt have made a material difference. They said theyd understood they were buying a 
product which allowed them 150 days to pay the ERC, and that wasnt correct, so the new 
rate had been mis-sold to them. They said that appropriate compensation for their distress 
should be measured in the thousands not the hundreds of pounds. And they said Barclays 
should be made to refund the ERC to mark the unacceptability of its actions. They said a 
£400 fine wasnt significant enough to punish Barclays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Barclays gave Mr G and Mrs I misleading information and that its 
service was poor. It gave them contradictory information about when they would have to pay 
the ERC by, it took too long to respond to their complaint, and it left them with a short time in 
which to pay the ERC  even after it extended the deadline. None of that is in dispute.
The question for me to resolve in this decision is what Barclays needs to do to put matters 
right. In order to do that, Ill first set out the basis on which the Financial Ombudsman 
Service resolves complaints. Were not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority 
 and its not our role to oversee firms general performance, or to punish them when things 
go wrong. 
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints  which as 
an ombudsman I am required, under our rules, to do by reference to what appears to me to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Where, as here, I uphold a complaint I am 
empowered to award fair compensation. The purpose of compensation is to compensate the 
complainant, not punish the firm  it is to put right the impact of what the firm did wrong. In 
some cases that might be by an award of compensation for financial loss; in others it might 
be by an award of compensation for non-financial loss, to recognise and compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the firms failures.
It's therefore not appropriate for me to measure my award by what Mr G and Mrs I  or I  
might consider the scale of Barclays wrongdoing. Rather, my award is determined by the 
impact of that on Mr G and Mrs I.
Dealing first with financial loss, Im not persuaded there was any. Mr G and Mrs I decided to 
take a new interest rate, knowing theyd have to pay an ERC, to protect themselves against 
future rate rises. They ended up with the rate they wanted, having paid the ERC they knew 
they would have to pay. They havent been caused any financial loss. I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to refund the ERC when had nothing gone wrong 
Mr G and Mrs I would still have had to pay it. There was no way Mr G and Mrs I would have 
been able to take a new rate starting before October 2023 without having to pay an ERC, 
and so it wouldnt be fair to put them in a better position than they would have been in had 
nothing gone wrong.
Ive noted that Mr G and Mrs I say that the ERC could have been added to their mortgage 
balance. They say that as it was only 3% of the mortgage balance doing so wouldnt have 
made a material difference and wouldnt have required a separate application. But Im afraid 
thats not correct.
The regulators rules for mortgages are set out in the FCA Handbook, in the section headed 
MCOB. MCOB 11.6.2 says that before agreeing to vary an existing mortgage contract a firm 
must assess whether doing so would be affordable and not do so unless it is. MCOB 11.6.3 says that this requirement does not apply if the variation would not involve the customer 
taking on additional borrowing (other than a product fee) and would not involve any other 
change material to affordability (such as changing the mortgage term).
What this means is that, under the rules, Barclays could offer Mr G and Mrs I a new interest 
rate without an affordability assessment. But it could not add the ERC payable on the end of 
the previous rate to the balance without an affordability assessment, since that would involve 
taking on additional borrowing  that is, an increase in the mortgage balance. I appreciate 
Mr G and Mrs I dont think a 3% ERC would make a material difference. But thats not 
something allowed for in the rules  any increase in balance (other than adding a product fee 
for a new interest rate) requires an affordability assessment. This means that Barclays could 
not simply have added the ERC to their outstanding balance, unless they made  and 
passed  a separate application to increase their mortgage balance by the amount of the 
ERC which included a full affordability assessment.
I dont think the new rate was mis-sold to Mr G and Mrs I. Ultimately they got what they 
wanted  a new 10 year fixed rate  and they paid the ERC they always understood they 
would have to pay. The process by which that would need to happen was misrepresented to 
them, but the product itself was as they expected and wanted.
Mr G and Mrs I would always have needed to pay the ERC to obtain the rate they wanted. 
But they thought they had more time to do so than turned out to be the case. That ultimately 
didnt prevent them paying the ERC, but it made the process of doing so considerably more 
stressful and difficult than it would otherwise have been. And so, while  as Ive explained  
there was no financial loss, Barclays did cause them distress and inconvenience for which 
its fair it compensates them.
Our website sets out some guidance on awards for distress and inconvenience, and the 
sorts of awards that might be appropriate for different levels of impact.1 Ive noted what Mr G 
and Mrs I say about this. This was an already stressful time as Mrs I was expecting their 
child. They were caused a substantial amount of confusion and upset. Barclays gave them 
conflicting information, didnt contact them when it said it would and ultimately left them with 
a short window, including the festive period, in which to pay the ERC. This took place 
between October and December 2022. 
I dont agree it would be appropriate to take into account Mr Gs professional hourly rate 
here. The mortgage process was done in a personal, not a professional, capacity and I 
havent seen any evidence that the problems with it resulted in lost work or income. 
Instead, Ive taken into account the guidance on awards set out on our website. The 
guidance says that an award of up to £300 might be appropriate where the firms mistake 
causes more frustration and annoyance than might be expected as part of everyday life with 
an impact that last some days or weeks and causes some distress or inconvenience. The 
guidance says that an award of more than £300, up to £750, might be appropriate where the 
impact caused considerable distress and / or significant inconvenience that needs a lot of 
extra effort to resolve and typically lasts many weeks or months.
Taking that into account, I agree with our investigator that an award in the band between 
£300 and £750 is fair compensation in this case. It recognises that Mr G and Mrs I were 
caused upset and annoyance that lasted several weeks and came at an already difficult time 
for them. Im satisfied £400 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
1 See https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to increase 
its offer of compensation to Mr G and Mrs I to £400 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman