DRN-3236519
The complaint
Mr L has complained that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in lending to him. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr L took out a credit card with MBNA for £10,000. The limit was increased to 
£13,000 over the following 18 months. The account was later closed.
In 2021, Mr L complained to MBNA. He said it was irresponsible in allowing him to take out 
the credit card. He said in the months prior to taking out this credit card, his bank statements 
showed he had pay day loans and other lending, and he was suffering from a gambling 
addiction.
MBNA didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said it thought the lending decision and 
amount was appropriate based on the information Mr L had given. It also said any increases 
in credit limit were because Mr L had met its lending criteria, and Mr L didnt have to agree to 
any increases.
Unsatisfied with MBNAs response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought MBNA had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr L. She wasnt 
satisfied that MBNA had shown it carried out sufficient checks on Mr L before agreeing the 
card and limit. She thought if it had, this would have shown it would be irresponsible to lend 
to him. So she recommended it refund all interest and fees that had accrued, along with 8% 
simple interest from the date the amounts were paid, until the date of settlement. She also 
said MBNA would need to remove any adverse data from Mr Ls credit file. 
MBNA didnt accept this, it said it believed based on Mr Ls salary, his outstanding debts 
were affordable to him. It said Mr L had cleared his balance on several occasions and the 
account was closed as fully settled. So this didnt support that the lending was irresponsible.
MBNA asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if MBNA treated Mr L 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card. 
These include: 
1) Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
3) Ultimately, did MBNA make a fair lending decision?
Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the time, outlines that the 
assessment that MBNA needed to complete shouldve been dependent on, and 
proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit and the 
consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information 
MBNA may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. MBNA 
is free to decide how to set its lending criteria, but it should complete proportionate checks to 
ensure borrowing is sustainable.
MBNA initially said it looked at Mr Ls income  which he said was £50,000 per year on his 
application. It then said it used a scoring system from the credit reference agencies, which 
showed he had other revolving debts of around £7,000. It also showed he had no CCJs or 
adverse information on his credit file. So it feels its checks were proportionate and showed 
Mr L would be able to afford the credit.
Ive reviewed Mr Ls credit card application. He doesnt list a mortgage outgoing on there but 
does declare other debts amounting to around £7,000. The data MBNA says it received from 
the credit reference agencies also doesnt include a mortgage amount, although he is listed 
as being a homeowner. As part of MBNAs checks it found there were five other unsecured 
lenders. 
However, our investigator noticed some discrepancies in the information from MBNA. The 
application showed Mr L actually had existing credit card debt of nearly £20,000 at the time 
of the application, but MBNA still felt it was appropriate to lend to him given his income. It 
says it carried out further manual checks when a marker was added to his account due to 
some conflicting information. But given his earnings he still passed the internal credit 
scoring. 
I cant see that MBNA did run a further internal score having received this further 
information, or it actually carried out any further checks once it realised this discrepancy. But 
in any event MBNA should have realised that Mr L had more debt than hed disclosed on his 
application. And so I consider it should have alerted MBNA to carry out further checks to 
ensure the lending was sustainable. Given MBNA knew that with the £10,000 credit card 
limit, Mr Ls total possible credit card debt would be nearly £30,000, which is 60% of his 
gross annual income, Im not satisfied it did carry out proportionate checks. 
So Ive considered what MBNA would have found if it had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. It seems to me that MBNA should have taken some steps to verify his 
income and expenditure. And this would have shown that Mr L had a number of debts, 
including a monthly mortgage payment, loan repayments on three loans, as well as the 
credit card debt of almost £20,000. His net monthly salary was around £3,000, but with these 
significant outgoings I think it would have shown that Mr Ls financial commitments were a 
significant proportion of his monthly income. Therefore, he may not have been able to 
sustainably pay back the debt. And I think further checks would have highlighted Mr L was 
using short-term loans to help manage his finances in the months before the credit card was 
taken out.
Mr L has told us the reason he had so much debt was because he had a gambling problem. 
But in this case, Im satisfied that the problem here was that MBNA was giving a large 
amount of credit to someone who already had significant debts. And that alone should have 
prompted more checks which should have alerted MBNA to the fact that the debt may not be 
sustainable for Mr L. The fact Mr L was actually able to pay off the credit card doesnt 
persuade me that MBNA made a responsible lending decision. 
Having considered everything, Im not satisfied MBNA made a fair lending decision in 2016. 
So it follows that I havent gone on to consider whether it acted fairly in increasing Mr Ls 
credit limit over the following 18 months, as he shouldnt have been provided with the credit 
at the outset.
To put things right, MBNA needs to refund all of the interest and charges applied to Mr Ls 
credit card until the account was closed. It needs to add 8% to each payment from the date it 
was made, to the date of settlement. And it should ensure any adverse information is 
removed from the credit agencies records. My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited needs to refund all of the interest and charges 
applied to Mr Ls credit card whilst the account was open. It will also need to add 8% simple 
interest to each payment from the date it was made, to the date of settlement. It will also 
need to remove any adverse information from the credit reference agencies records.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman