DRN-3335451
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him when he could 
not afford to repay the loans. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Number Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments 
(weekly)Loan 
AmountWeekly 
Repayment 
Amount
1 19/02/2015 03/07/2015 15 £100.00 £10.00
2 18/05/2015 04/09/2015 15 £100.00 £20.00 (combined 
figure)
3 04/09/2015 15/04/2016 28 £300.00 £18.00
4 13/05/2016 03/03/2017 33 £500.00 £25.00
Gap in lending
5 19/04/2019 06/12/2019 33 £500.00 £25.00
6 06/12/2019 31/07/2020 34 £500.00 £25.00
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should put things right for 
Mr B for loan 4. He had treated the gap in the lending between loans 4 and 5 as being a 
significant one. There is a small gap between loans 3 and 4 as well but brief. 
Morses agreed with our adjudicator and Mr B did not. 
The partially resolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Earlier loans
It wasnt until 10 March 2014 that Morses Club bought the business of another lender and 
Morses has told us it took on the responsibility of any loan that was still active with that other 
lending business at that point. Any loan that was repaid, sold on or written off before 
10 March 2014 would remain the responsibility of that other lending business - now in 
administration. Additionally, Morses Club acquired a separate additional lending business on 
17 May 2015 and was only responsible for any loan still active at that point. 
It may be that Mr B had earlier loans  our adjudicator said that there was an indication that 
there were other loans but neither party has provided anything about this lending so Ive only 
considered the loans in the table at the start of the decision.
Our adjudicators view focussed on the loans for which Morses was able to provide lending 
information. And since our adjudicators view no further details of other loans have been sent 
to us. So, it seems that these six loans are the ones to consider. 
Break in the lending relationship
I agree that the gap in the lending between March 2017 and April 2019 was enough to break 
the loan chain which means that I think it entirely reasonable for Morses to have approached 
Mr Bs application for loan 5 as if Mr B was a new customer. 
Current position
Morses has accepted the outcome recommended by our adjudicator  that it should put 
things right for Mr B for loan 4. Mr B thinks that he should be entitled to further loans being upheld as part of his complaint but neither he nor his representative have provided any 
reasons as to why. 
So, in the putting things right section below I have outlined what Morses must do for loan 4. 
My findings on the five other loans
In relation to the first two loans in 2015, they were for a modest sum of £100 each and I think 
it proportionate that Morses looked at and relied on the information Mr B gave them for those 
two loans. So, having reviewed the information I have, they looked affordable and so I do not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Mr Bs third application was for a larger loan of £300 and for a longer term of 28 weeks. But 
as the repayments for loans 1 and 2 appeared to have been satisfactory, Morses would not 
have been alerted to any issues surrounding Mr Bs ability to pay or Mr Bs finances. 
And so Morses would not have been prompted to think that it needed to carry out any 
additional checks over and above what it usually did. I have records from Morses which 
show that Mr B paid loans 1 and 2 well. This plus the information it had from Mr B was 
enough for Morses to rely on. And so, I think that Morses carried out proportionate checks. 
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 3.
Morses has agreed to uphold loan 4 and so I consider it resolved and I have not reviewed it.
Loan 5 was the first loan application from Mr B to Morses after 2 years and as I have said 
earlier I think that Morses proportionate checks would have been to rely on what Mr B 
informed it about his finances. Loan 6 was applied for shortly after he had repaid loan 5. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr Bs payslip dated April 2019 was looked at by Morses and that 
the incomes recorded for loans 5 and 6 were comfortable  around £461 a week and £671 a 
week respectively. And so, for repayments of £25 a week, Morses would have been acting 
reasonably to consider that the loans looked affordable.
My understanding from the information I have is that Morses looked at Mr Bs outgoings. The 
outgoings Mr B gave them were weekly of £305 and £250 respectively, and as those did not 
exceed his income it seems that loans 5 and 6 were affordable.
I note that as part of Mr Bs complaint he submitted a schedule of loans he had with other 
companies. I have no details to verify any of that additional information such as other loan 
agreements or Mr Bs credit file. But I wanted Mr B to know Id looked at all he had sent.
Many of them were loans with other companies and not taken at the same times as the 
loans with Morses. 
Apart from the Morses loan 4 which did overlap with other loans with other lenders  which 
Morses has agreed to uphold  then it looks as though all of the loans he took with the other 
lenders were during the two year gap when he took no loans with Morses. 
So, I do not consider these persuasive as most are not relevant. 
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 5 and 6. 
Putting things right
Morses should not have given Mr B loan 4. Morses has agreed to put things right for him.In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if they had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr B loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 4, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove adverse payment information from Mr Bs credit file for loan 4.
E)
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman