DRN-2304621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complain on their 
behalf that they were mis-sold an investment by The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Britannia).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a Mini Balanced Guaranteed Equity Bond (MGEB) Cash ISA in 1999. 
The ISA had two parts  one part provided a fixed rate of interest for one year on up to half 
of the investment and the other part provided a return linked to the performance of the stock 
market after five years.
Mr and Mrs H invested £6,000 each into the ISA, £3,000 into the fixed interest part and 
£3,000 into the other part. The fixed interest part of each ISA matured in 2000 and the other 
part of each ISA was surrendered in 2006 for around £3,046. 
The CMC complained to the Co-op in 2020 and said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs H were given advice to invest £6,000 each in the MGEB Cash ISA. In the 
absence of any evidence to justify the advice, they thought the advice they received 
was inappropriate
In 1999, Mr and Mrs H were 50 and had never invested before. They only had 
£20,000 in their savings and the investment represented 60% of their free assets, of 
which half would be locked away for six years.
Mrs H had recently reduced her working hours and Mr H was nearing retirement so 
the funds would be important to them.
They thought it was notable that the adviser had marked with an x the location that 
Mr and Mrs H should sign. They thought this was evidence of a process which wasnt 
independent, but collaborative and guided.
The MGEB Cash ISA was a complex product similar to a structured guaranteed bond. 
Any growth on the five year part of the investment was linked to international indices. 
Therefore, the account wasnt like a typical savings account.
Mr H was an electronic engineer and Mrs H was a secretary, they had no investment 
experience and wouldnt have understood the product without advice.
The Co-op didnt uphold the complaint as they thought it had been made too late. The CMC 
didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. 
The investigator thought the complaint had been made in time but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He thought that based on what hed seen, including the declaration on the 
application form from the time, the sale of the product was non-advised.
He noted Mr and Mrs Hs recollections but didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
the sale was advised. He also thought the x marked where Mr and Mrs H signed the 
application forms didnt indicate that the sale was advised, it may have just been done by a 
staff member providing assistance.
The CMC disagreed with his opinion and said, in summary:
They appreciated there was limited evidence but that was to be expected given that 
the firm had designed this product to be sold as execution only. However, that didnt 
mean that it was sold in that way, nor that it was sold compliantly.
Mr and Mrs Hs clear recollections of the sale and the compelling evidence that they 
wouldnt have taken out the investment without having been advised to do so 
shouldnt be ignored.
The reference in the application form to choosing this  as being best suited to their 
needs had unsurprisingly been completed. Mr and Mrs H believed that they had just 
been told by an adviser that this was the best product for their needs and had been 
given information about the product from this adviser.
Mr and Mrs H went through numerous questions about their circumstances as would 
be expected in a formal advice process. This product was then recommended, and 
they were told where to sign. An experienced investor may have raised concerns with 
the lack of a signed fact find document or reasons why letter, but it must be 
recognised that they were inexperienced investors and shouldnt be penalised for 
failing to understand the process when they were being guided by an expert who was 
employed by the bank.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
I note the points the CMC has made regarding the sale. I accept that despite a business 
saying that advice hasnt been provided, that isnt always the case  there are many 
occasions that this service has decided on the balance of probabilities that advice has been 
provided despite arguments to the contrary.
But I must take into account that the sale took place around 20 years ago and recollections 
can fade over time. And, crucially, there is no documentary evidence that supports any 
advice having been given to Mr and Mrs H. If advice had been given, I would expect to see 
some evidence of the advice process such as a completed fact find and a formal 'reasons 
why' letter giving the reasons why the adviser felt the investment was suitable for them.
The only documentary evidence is the application form they filled out which said I have 
chosen this account as being best suited to my needs and confirm that I have received a 
copy of and have read, understood and agree to be bound by the Terms and Conditions of 
the Mini Cash ISA Balanced Guaranteed Equity Bond High Growth Option into which my 
funds are being invested.
I appreciate what the CMC has said about Mr and Mrs H being told that the MGEB Cash ISA 
was the best product for their needs and being given advice about the product, but Ive not 
been presented with anything that suggests this is the case. I appreciate there is likely to 
have been some discussion around the investment, but I dont think this means we can 
assume formal advice was given. In order to be satisfied that was the case, I would generally 
expect to see some evidence of a personal recommendation.I also appreciate what the CMC has said about Mr and Mrs H being told where to sign and 
how this shows that the process wasnt independent, but Im not persuaded that marking an 
x where they needed to sign is evidence that advice was given. I think it possibly just 
showed them where to sign if they wished to proceed.
While Im not questioning that Mr and Mrs H genuinely recalled being given advice, I dont 
think this evidence alone is sufficient for me to safely conclude this was an advised sale, 
particularly given the application form which clearly stated they chose the product without 
advice.
So because I haven't seen anything to suggest that any formal advice was given, and also 
taking into account the application form, I think it's more likely than not that this was a non-
advised sale. Therefore, the Co-op can't be held accountable for the suitability of the advice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman