DRN-3193263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around November 2015, Mr and Mrs W were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs W decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
Soon after the system was installed, Mr and Mrs W made a claim under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. They said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
them to enter into the contract with P. They have made the following points;
the salesperson for P told them that the feed in tariff (FIT) payments theyd receive 
would be sufficient to meet their monthly loan costs.
They have also explained that they didnt receive any written confirmation from P of the 
contract theyd entered into until 2016, by which point their right to cancel has expired and 
that a battery that was meant to be installed with the system wasnt
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
Since the complaint has been with our service Mr and Mrs W have stopped making their 
monthly loan repayments.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view. In response they said theyd only ever 
received one MCS certificate, whereas they had two systems installed. They said that this 
supported their position that theyd complained to P within a matter of weeks of the system 
being installed. They also explained that it wasnt until March 2016 that they received a copy 
of the paperwork from P and realised that the benefits from the system wouldnt be sufficient 
to meet their monthly loan repayments. Finally, they also said that the optional extras 
included in the quote hadnt been installed at their home, so the quote provided by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P wasnt accurate.
Our investigator asked Shawbrook for confirmation that the optional extras had been 
installed in line with the quote and subsequent contract that had been signed by Mr and Mrs 
W.
When a response from Shawbrook wasnt forthcoming, the investigator upheld the 
complaint. To put things right, they said that Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan 
based on the known and assumed savings to Mr and Mrs W over the 15-year loan term, so 
they pay no more than that and allow them to retain the system. They also set out that 
Shawbrook should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ws credit file as they 
were satisfied that if the system had been self-funding, Mr and Mrs W would have 
maintained their contractual monthly loan repayments. They also felt that Shawbrook should 
pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators view. Shawbrook did not respond to the second 
view by the investigator so the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs W could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W say that during a sales meeting at their home, the salesperson for P, told 
them that the income theyd receive by way of FIT payments would be sufficient to meet their 
monthly payments. They have said that they didnt realise this wouldnt be the case until 
some months after the system had been installed at their home, when they received a copy 
of their solar panel quote and contract.
Shawbrook has provided this service with a detailed explanation of the sales process it says 
P would have followed during the sales meeting with Mr and Mrs W. It says that the 
salesperson would have taken them through their solar quotation, clearly explaining how the 
system would work and that they would need to contribute towards their monthly loan 
repayments. 
To support its position, Shawbrook has referred to page 18 of the quote and a section titled 
Repayments. This has three table showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the loan that Mr 
and Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 
monthly payments of £186.83. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £186.63, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year.
Shawbrook says that as the quote clearly sets out the income that Mr and Mrs W could 
expect to receive from the system, by way of FIT payments and any additional savings, as 
well as their monthly loan repayments, it is inconceivable that the salesperson for P would 
tell them one thing when the documentation clearly shows another; that the income they 
would receive wouldnt be sufficient to immediately cover their monthly loan repayments.
Mr and Mrs W dispute that the salesperson for P took them through the quote in this level of 
detail though, and it wasnt until they received a copy of the quote, in March 2016, that they 
realised there would be a shortfall between their monthly loan repayments and the expected 
income from the system. They have said that they were in contact with P from December 
2015, when the system was installed, as they hadnt received any paperwork about the 
system or any information about a cooling off period. To support this, they have explained 
that they have only ever received one MCS certificate, even though they have two systems 
installed at their home.
Ive thought carefully on this point, as I accept that the quote clearly sets out the income that 
Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive compared to their monthly loan repayments. And if I 
were satisfied that Mr and Mrs W had seen it, and relied on the quote, rather than any 
representations made by the salesperson, Id be unable to conclude that the benefits of the 
system were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W.
Taking the above into account, and the particular circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded that the quote formed a central part of the sales process, or that Mr and Mrs W 
were provided with a copy of it shortly after the sales meeting. This is because the 
Repayments section hasnt been signed by Mr and Mrs W, supporting their version of 
events that the quote wasnt discussed in detail with them, they only ever received one MCS 
certificate rather than two, they complained to P after the installation as they had received no 
paperwork and didnt receive the paperwork until March 2016.
Therefore, I accept Mr and Mrs Ws version of events and am satisfied that, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, they were led to believe that the system would be self-funding 
and come at no additional cost to them and they would have relied on the verbal 
representations made to them by the salesperson when entering into the contract.
The optional extras
Mr and Mrs W have said that the optional extras included on their quote werent 
subsequently installed at their home. These were a voltage optimiser and a hot water 
controller. These two extras would have generated approximately a further £13,700 income 
to Mr and Mrs W over the lifetime of the system. 
They have provided photos of the installation which appear to show two meters to record the 
generation of the system and, two inverters. 
Our service asked Shawbrook for its comments on this concern raised by Mr and Mrs W, 
and we didnt receive a response.
Based on this information, Im not satisfied that the optional extras were installed in line with 
the agreed contract with P. Therefore, the quotation that shows the expected FIT income 
and additional savings to Mr and Mrs W is incorrect and doesnt accurately represent the 
financial benefits they could expect to receive. And based on this the income they could 
have expected to receive was misrepresented to them.
Missed payments
During the course of our investigation, Mr and Mrs W stopped making their contractual 
monthly loan repayments to Shawbrook. My view on this is that if the system had been self-funding as Mr and Mrs W had been led to 
believe, they would have continued to make their contractual monthly loan repayments. So, 
whilst I dont condone the decision taken by Mr and Mrs W to stop making their monthly loan 
repayments, Im persuaded that if the system had performed as had been represented to 
them, they would have continued with their loan payments.
Therefore, I think it would be fair for Shawbrook to ensure that Mr and Mrs Ws credit file isnt 
negatively impacted by any missed loan payments.
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
I think the fair outcome here is to ensure Mr and Mrs W arent disadvantaged by the 
misrepresentation made by P, allow them to retain the system and ensure that it is made 
cost neutral over the original term of the loan. Shawbrook should calculate the potential 
savings and income to Mr and Mrs W over the term of the loan. It should then restructure the 
loan so that they pay no more than this over the 15-year loan term. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have said they no longer reside at the property in 
question. So, although they will no longer derive any benefit going forward, Im satisfied that 
the outcome is fair. This is because the complaint relates to the system being self-funding as 
opposed to them being led to believe they could transfer the system, and retain the benefits, 
if they moved home.
By making the system cost neutral, it is likely that Mr and Mrs Ws monthly loan repayments 
will reduce, meaning they would have previously been paying more each month resulting in 
an overpayment. And as they have been deprived of the overpayment, I would expect 
Shawbrook to add 8% simple interest a year from the date the overpayment was made to 
the date of the settlement. I think Mr and Mrs W should be given the following four options as 
to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
1. any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding loan 
balance and they continue to pay their currently monthly repayment,
2. any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding loan 
balance and they pay a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the loan 
term,
3. any overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr and Mrs W and they 
continue to pay their currently monthly repayment,
4. any overpayments and associated interest returned to Mr and Mrs W and they pay a 
new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the loan.
If Mr and Mrs W wish to accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form 
which option they wish to accept.Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time Mr and Mrs W 
complained to Shawbrook that means their claim shouldve been upheld. The fact that this 
didnt happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset. So, Ill make an award of £100 
for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
allow Mr and Mrs W to keep the system,
estimate the potential income and savings to them over the 15-year term of the loan 
and rework it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, it should use Mr and 
Mrs Ws electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8%* simple interest to any overpayment made from the date of the overpayment 
until the date of settlement,
allow Mr and Mrs W to decide how theyd like their overpayments to be used, using 
the four options described above,
ensure that Mr and Mrs Ws credit file isnt negatively impacted by any missed 
payments, and;
pay Mr and Mrs W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also 
provide Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this, if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman