DRN-3053398
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) irresponsibly increased 
his overdraft limit. He says that Halifax ought to have realised that he had a gambling 
problem, and that he would therefore struggle to repay the overdraft.
What happened
 Mr M held a student account with Halifax. Over the years Mr Ms overdraft limit was 
increased and decreased on several occasions. In 2017 the overdraft limit was increased to 
the maximum allowed for his type of account, £1,500.
In 2020, Mr M complained that Halifax irresponsibly lent to him. Halifax didnt think that it had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about irresponsible lending. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax should not have 
increased Mr Ms overdraft to £1,500 in 2017 given Mr Ms circumstances at the time. As 
Mr Ms account was a student account he hadnt incurred any fees or charges on his 
overdraft. But the adjudicator still felt Halifax needed to do something to recognise that 
lending Mr M additional funds via his overdraft had fuelled his gambling problem, so she 
recommended that Halifax pay Mr M £100 to recognise the additional difficulties hed been 
caused by what she considered to be irresponsible lending. Halifax didnt respond, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Halifax 
needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website also sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Ive kept this all in mind when looking at Mr Ms complaint.
Halifax has argued that, due to the type of account Mr M held, it carried out less stringent 
checks when he applied for increases to his overdraft limit. It says Mr Ms income and 
expenditure didnt suggest hed struggle to repay the overdraft limit, that he passed credit 
checks, and that his gambling was not severe enough to flag as a cause for concern at the 
time of the overdraft increase in 2017. And, in these circumstances, it says it was reasonable 
to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Halifax have said, but Im not satisfied that 
Halifaxs affordability checks were proportionate in Mr Ms circumstances. Specifically Im 
concerned by the emerging pattern of Mr M using his overdraft to gamble in the months 
before the overdraft increase was agreed. A cursory look at Mr Ms statements show that he 
was gambling significant sums in the lead up to the overdraft application. I think if Halifax 
had looked at Mr Ms statements before approving the overdraft increase it could have 
identified that there was a significant risk Mr M might have struggled to sustainably repay his 
overdraft without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
Bearing this in mind, I think Halifax should not have increased Mr Ms overdraft to £1,500 in 
August 2017, and I think its decision to do so meant that it increased Mr Ms indebtedness in 
a way that it ought to have realised was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. So I think 
Halifax treated Mr M unfairly.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Paying Mr M £100 for the upset caused by it agreeing to lend him more than he 
could reasonably afford to repay
Ensuring that it continues to work with Mr M to agree a reasonable repayment 
plan so that Mr M can repay the overdrawn balance of his account and the 
overdraft limit can be reduced and  if both Halifax and Mr M agree it is the right 
course of action  ultimately removed.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman