DRN-2494402
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly increased the cost of his home 
insurance premium at renewal. 
What happened
Mr J took out home insurance direct with Aviva in 2016. The policy renewed in 2017 but in 
2018, he changed his insurance buying it instead through a high street retailer (S). Mr Js 
new policy was cheaper than his former Aviva one. The new policy he bought from S was 
underwritten by Aviva. 
S issued a renewal invitation to Mr J in 2019 which, despite the price increase, he accepted. 
At the 2020 renewal Mr J noted that the cost of the policy had increased by 11.5% on the 
previous year so he contacted Aviva to discuss reducing the premium. When Aviva said it 
was unable to reduce the cost of the policy Mr J had been offered by S he complained. 
Mr J said to Aviva that he was unhappy that the price had increased substantially from when 
he first took out the policy in 2018. He also said hed found himself in the same situation 
when hed insured his home directly with Aviva in 2016 and 2017, namely that the price was 
acceptable to him in the first year he had the policy but over the subsequent two renewals it 
increased by an unreasonable amount. Mr J said he felt this was a ploy by Aviva and that 
consumers could only get the best deals by shopping around and switching providers. 
Mr J declined the renewal offered by S in 2020 and moved back to insuring his home directly 
with Aviva because the price it was offering was more competitive costing him £200 less for 
the year. 
Aviva looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. It said it 
underwrote numerous insurance products each of which had their own rating models and 
varied slightly in the core cover offered and policy limits applied. So, it said varying 
premiums between different products werent uncommon. Aviva said it couldnt share details 
about its pricing structure with Mr J because that was business sensitive information. But it 
said it used many different rating factors  both those personally related to the policyholder 
and others more generally applied which were outside a customers control. It said its rating 
mechanism was frequently updated with claims information, statistical data and third-party 
sources. So, it said its assessment of risk depended partially on the information it held at any 
one time. 
Unhappy with Avivas response to his complaint, Mr J complained to this service. He said 
hed had policies underwritten by Aviva for the last five years and couldnt understand the 
difference in price for the policies hed had given they came from the same source. Whilst he 
accepted that some aspects of the different policies may lead to the risk being adjusted he 
didnt feel the price should change to the extent it did. As a result of it doing so hed been 
caused a lot of anxiety and inconvenience by shopping around different providers and 
having to complain to Aviva to try and get a reasonably priced policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
said she was satisfied that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in the way itd priced Mr Js 
policies and that hes been treated the same as any other customer with the same 
circumstances. She said the main reason for the increase in premium that Mr J saw at the 
renewals was the result of his new customer discount being disapplied. She said new 
customer discounts were commonly offered to attract new consumers in what was a very 
competitive industry. She said she understood that Mr J may think this was unfair and that 
customers should be rewarded for their loyalty not for changing insurers but this service 
wasnt able to tell insurers what to charge or what discount they should or shouldnt offer. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigator. He said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
found extensive evidence that some insurers gradually increase the premiums of customers 
that renew with them each year. And he said the FCA was currently consulting about this 
practice which he said it referred to as price walking. He said he referred to it as a ploy. 
He said he wasnt a new customer of Avivas (for the purposes of the discount) because 
hed had an Aviva policy for five years. And he said if Aviva continued with the cycle of 
renewals alternating every few years between it and S then he wanted to know if he 
remained a new customer in perpetuity. 
Our investigator said that whilst Mr J may be unhappy with Avivas business practices that 
wasnt something this service could look into for him. She said that was the role of the FCA. 
She said it wasnt currently against the FCAs rules to offer a discount to attract new 
customers. She said she was satisfied that Mr Js premium had increased in line with the 
gradual removal of his new customer discount. And she said that if customers were unhappy 
with the price they were offered at renewal then they were free to shop around to find a 
policy at a price acceptable to them. 
Mr J asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Js premiums increased from when he first took out his policy with S in 
2018 as follows: 
2018 - £753.63
2019 - £833.54
2020 - £930.30
I can appreciate that having his premiums increase in this way when hed not had cause to 
claim on the policy mustve appeared to be very unfair to Mr J. So, I can understand why he 
has complained. 
The risk of insuring Mr Js home is Avivas to take on so it will decide how to assess it and 
will charge a price accordingly. Each year, Aviva is entitled to reassess its risk factors when 
setting the price of its policies. So, prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the 
risks are that year for all of its customers. We wont normally say whether a product 
represents good value for money. And we generally accept that insurers can charge what 
they like for insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should 
apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop 
around and change insurer if they wish. I can see that at the point the renewal price offered became unacceptable to him that is what Mr J has done. So, Im satisfied thats the case 
here. 
The insurance market is a highly competitive one and new policies typically include 
significant discounts in order to attract new customers  that is even the case where different 
products are offered by the same insurer. But that in itself isnt necessarily unfair. The 
introductory discount an insurer offers to attract new business may mean it is unable to 
make a profit from the new business policies it sells. The gradual removal of that new 
customer discount at subsequent renewals (leading to an increase in the premium charged) 
isnt something this service would interfere with. 
I know Mr J thinks he wasnt a new customer in the sense that hed been with Aviva for 
years. I cant agree. Each new product he took out rendered him a new customer. 
Clearly Mr Js premium increased to a point he found unacceptable. So, weve asked Aviva 
why that happened and, in the course of our investigation, Aviva has provided us with some 
confidential information which Ive been able to consider as part of Mr Js complaint. Im 
afraid Im unable to share that information with him as its business sensitive but Id like to 
reassure him that Ive checked it very carefully. And having done so I can see that Aviva has 
applied its pricing model to his policy in the same way as it would to any of its other 
customers. So, I dont think that Mr J has been singled out or treated any differently. 
I can see that the principal reason for the premium increases Mr J experienced was the 
gradual removal of his new customer discount. I appreciate that Mr J thinks this is unfair but 
insurers arent obliged to continue to offer introductory discounts indefinitely. Renewing a 
property insurance policy will involve a bit of time and effort to get the best terms. And 
people who take the time to shop around often end up paying less, as Mr J has found. But I 
dont think Aviva should have to compensate Mr J for having to do so.
I have seen no evidence here of a ploy by Aviva to see that customers could only get the 
best deals by shopping around. Whilst Mr J thinks it would be fairer for insurers to reward 
loyalty that isnt how the insurance market works. As Ive said, consumers that take the time 
to shop around often end up paying less. But the fact they have to do so isnt unreasonable. 
I know that Mr J has found the differing prices offered by Aviva over the years confusing, 
given they have all been underwritten by the same insurer but the fact remains that Mr J has 
had different products from Aviva each with their own rating models, cover terms and policy 
limits. 
Finally, Ive noted with interest Mr Js comment about the FCAs review. This service is here 
to investigate individual consumer complaints not the wider business practices of the 
insurance industry. Thats the role of the industry regulator, the FCA. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman