DRN-4296853
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs J was cold called by scammers claiming to be the police from a different part of the 
country. They said theyd arrested Mrs Js carer, who had stolen Mrs Js ID and bank cards. 
Mrs J did not have a carer and had not lost any ID or cards. Mrs J pointed out that she 
wasnt from that part of the country, so the scammers pretended to transfer her to a more 
local police department.
The scammers told Mrs J that the person theyd arrested was working with her local bank 
branch, at a bank Ill refer to as S. They asked Mrs J to join their covert police operation, and 
persuaded her to withdraw £5,000 in cash from her S branch then read them the serial 
numbers. They said the cash was fake and sent a courier to collect it, saying theyd 
reimburse her. The courier had no uniform or identification and said they couldnt show Mrs J 
their police vehicle as theyd parked some distance away.
The next day, the scammers called again and told Mrs J her local Lloyds branch was corrupt 
too. They persuaded her to withdraw £8,000 from her Lloyds account and hand it to them. In 
the branch, Lloyds gave Mrs J written and verbal warnings about scams, noting that 
scammers may pretend to be the police, the police wont ask you to withdraw money, and 
that scammers will tell you to lie to staff. They asked Mrs J a series of questions such as 
whether anyone had asked her to make the withdrawal, whether someone had asked her to 
report back after, and whether someone was going to collect the cash later. On instructions 
from the scammers, Mrs J answered no to each of those and told Lloyds she was going to 
gift the cash to family. Lloyds let the withdrawal go ahead.
Lloyds didnt think they were liable for Mrs Js loss. She came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs Js 
representatives didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs J fell victim to a scam, and so she has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for her, and I appreciate why she feels that her money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammers who are primarily responsible 
for what happened, and who really owe Mrs J her money back. But I can only consider what 
Lloyds did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I cant fairly hold Lloyds liable for Mrs Js loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs J authorised the withdrawal. So although she didnt intend for the 
money to end up with scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations she is liable for 
the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Lloyds had an obligation to follow her 
instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises them to make. 
Lloyds should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds should have 
done more in Mrs Js case.
Here, Lloyds did make person-to-person enquiries about this withdrawal, giving Mrs J written 
and verbal warnings about scams and asking about this payment. While the questions they 
asked were closed rather than open, they were relevant questions, they drew Mrs Js 
attention to this type of scam, and Mrs J misled the bank. So its hard to say that Lloyds were 
significantly at fault here.
Further, even if Lloyds had asked further open questions about the withdrawal, I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs J wouldve still gone ahead with it. S had also talked to Mrs J 
about scams the previous day and asked her some relevant questions, and she misled them 
too. She maintained her story across rounds of warnings and questioning with two different 
banks, even when Lloyds drew her attention to this very type of scam and asked clear, 
relevant questions, and even after having time to sleep on it and reconsider the situation 
after her initial withdrawal from S. She promised the scammers not to tell her banks the truth. 
And theres nothing Ive seen which suggests she was open to being persuaded by Lloyds. 
With all this in mind, I cant reasonably conclude that Mrs J wouldve changed tack with 
further questioning. And even with further questioning, if Mrs J was simply adamant that she 
preferred to gift the money in cash then there wasnt much more Lloyds could reasonably do. 
Neither banks branch staff found anything concerningly suspicious, and it doesnt look like 
Lloyds had a sufficient enough basis on which to call the police on her.
I should also explain that even if I thought further intervention would have most likely made a 
difference, I still dont think I could fairly hold Lloyds liable for the loss in this case. Mrs J was 
told inconsistent and highly implausible things by the scammers, and she didnt take any 
reasonable actions to check what she was being told. She was given scam warnings and 
was asked relevant questions by two banks, but misled them both. I cant see that Mrs J had 
any reasonable basis to believe what she was being told, whereas some of the things the 
scammers told her should have reasonably alerted her to the fact that they werent who they 
said they were. By disregarding all these signs and handing over her money to unidentified 
strangers in the way she did, Mrs J failed to do what a reasonable person would be expected 
to, and acted with serious disregard to obvious risks. Im afraid that Mrs Js actions here 
were negligent to such a degree that it seems unfair to hold Lloyds liable at all.
Ive considered what Lloyds did to try to recover Mrs Js money after she told Lloyds about 
the scam. Unfortunately, because Mrs J withdrew the money in cash and handed it to 
someone, theres nothing more Lloyds could do to recover it. I hope that the authorities are 
able to apprehend the scammers and recover Mrs Js money.Lastly, Mrs Js representatives referred to another case, and I understand why they thought 
to do so. As they know, we look at each case on its individual merits. And this case has 
substantial differences to the one they quoted. For example, here Mrs J was significantly 
younger, she gave over a different story, she didnt take any reasonable actions to check 
what the scammers told her, its clearer what the banks discussed with her and that they 
reasonably drew her attention to this type of scam, and so on.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs J, I dont think Lloyds should be 
held responsible for her loss. And so I cant fairly tell Lloyds to refund Mrs Js money in this 
case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs J 
to receive. But given the evidence at hand and the circumstances of this case, Im unable to 
reasonably come to another conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman