DRN-3631259
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt close his credit 
card account correctly. He continued to receive statements and was able to access the 
account online. He asks for an apology and to be properly compensated.
What happened
Barclaycard closed Mr Ms account in October 2020. He repaid the balance in January 2021. 
Mr M says he continued to receive statements and could still access the account online. He 
called to complain and had to wait 30 minutes rather than the five minutes he was told to 
expect. He says the complaint handler closed the complaint immediately without 
investigating it. And he was given inconsistent reasons for the statements being generated. 
The complaints team said statements had been suppressed, yet he received another a few 
months later. 
Our investigator said the compensation paid by Barclaycard was reasonable for the trouble 
caused. 
Mr M said hed just received further correspondence (an annual statement), and the 
compensation wasnt enough to reflect his frustration and the time hes spent on phone calls.
Barclaycard said it had paid £100 in relation to this complaint and didnt agree to pay more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Barclaycard closed Mr Ms account in October 2020. He repaid the balance in January 2021. 
Mr M says he continued to receive statements and could still access the account online.
Mr M complained about this in August 2021. Barclaycard paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M complained again in September 2021, as he could still access the account online and 
had received another statement. Barclaycard responded to Mr Ms complaint, saying: 
Mr Ms online access hadnt been removed when the account was closed. This was an 
error and it had now deleted Mr Ms online registration. Mr M confirmed during the call 
with the complaints team he could no longer access the account. Barclaycard paid £50 
to Mr Ms bank account.
Statements were issued due to activity on the account (a small adjustment and payment 
of compensation). It said it had now suppressed statements so that no more would be 
issued by post.  
Mr M received a statement (dated January 2022). Barclaycard says this was because it 
credited £50 to the account in December 2021 in relation to a different complaint. It says the 
statement Mr M received in September 2021 was issued because of the payment of £50 into 
the account in response to the complaint he raised in August 2021. Barclaycard says it 
followed its usual process when it paid compensation into the account. Mr M says he 
recently received an annual statement. Most likely this was issued as there had been activity 
on the account (the compensation payments) during the year. 
Id expect the inconvenience caused by receiving these statements to be minimal, and Mr M 
hasnt provided evidence to persuade me otherwise. Barclaycard has paid £100 to Mr M in 
relation this matter and I think thats fair in the circumstances. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay further compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with the way the complaints team dealt with his complaint. In particular 
the time he spent on hold during a call, closing his complaint without investigating it, giving 
inconsistent reasons for statements being issued and paying compensation via his closed 
account. Complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. This means it isnt something we 
can usually look into, and I dont think the circumstances here mean that I should do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman