DRN-2314120
The complaint
Mr O complains because Unum Ltd hasnt paid his claims under an income protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O holds a personal income protection insurance policy, provided by Unum. The policy 
was taken out in 1996, with a 26-week deferred period and an expiry date of October 2030. 
In March 2012, Mr O became unwell and was unable to work. He returned to work in 
November 2012 on a part-time, phased basis. 
Mr O was signed off work for a second time in April 2013. He remained off work until he took 
early retirement from his employment at the end of 2014.
In February 2015, Mr O had an accident and seriously injured his leg. 
Mr O first contacted Unum about making a claim under his policy in October 2013. Due to 
sensitivities surrounding his plans to negotiate a retirement package with his employer, 
Mr O said hed be unable to complete any claim forms until 2015. Unum sent Mr O 
correspondence asking whether he intended to make a claim in 2014 and sent further claim 
forms to Mr O in 2017. Mr O returned completed claim forms to Unum on 1 October 2018.
Unum then wrote to Mr Os GP seeking his medical records. Unum also asked Mr O to send 
it two reports which had been prepared by his consultant psychiatrist at the request of 
occupational health doctors on behalf of Mr Os employer. 
In May 2019, Unum wrote to Mr O and said it was declining his claim. It said the information 
it had received showed Mr Os first absence from work was in April 2013, and the medical 
opinions relating to this absence were unclear. Unum said, as the claim hadnt been notified 
to it within 90 days of the end of the deferred period, it was unable to retrospectively assess 
Mr Os ability to carry out his occupation at the time of his absence. 
Mr O complained to Unum. Amongst other things, Mr O said Unum hadnt read the first 
report from his consultant psychiatrist so had got the relevant dates wrong, and his first date 
of absence was in March 2012 not April 2013. Mr O said Unum hadnt investigated his claim 
as it should have and had breached guidelines by asking for medical reports which were 
prepared for his employer. Mr O said he hadnt received any policy documents from Unum 
when he took out the policy, and that Unum hadnt ever told him about the notification 
requirements under the policy. Furthermore, Mr O said Unum told him it understood why his 
claim had been notified late and that the contents of a letter which Unum had sent him in 
February 2019 meant it couldnt rely on the late notification policy clause to turn down his 
claim. 
Unum sent a final response letter to Mr O in November 2019, maintaining its position. Mr O 
remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service and subsequently provided a 
further report from his consultant psychiatrist to both us and to Unum.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she wouldnt be asking Unum to do 
anything more. She said late notification clauses are standard in most insurance policies like 
this, and Unums ability to obtain further medical information was limited by the time it 
received written notification of Mr Os claim. Our investigator agreed that Mr O had first been 
absent from work in March 2012, but she said neither the medical evidence from this time 
nor the medical evidence relating to the absence from April 2013 showed that Mr O met the 
policy definition of incapacity. She said the medical evidence relating to Mr Os accident 
didnt confirm how this affected his ability to work and noted that Mr O had left his 
employment by the time the accident happened anyway. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has provided detailed information to this service about numerous complaint points. Id 
like to reassure Mr O that, before reaching my decision, Ive read all the evidence he has 
provided. However, I wont be specifically referring to every individual complaint point that 
Mr O has raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead, Ill be addressing what I think are the key 
issues relevant to the outcome of the complaint.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial. This means we dont act 
on behalf of Mr O, nor do we act for Unum. Were an informal alternative to the civil courts 
and we dont have the power to compel witnesses or to take evidence under oath. Its not for 
us to put a list of questions to Mr Os consultant psychiatrist for him to answer, as Mr O has 
suggested  this wouldnt be impartial. Instead, we review all the evidence that has been 
provided to us to decide if we think a financial business has acted incorrectly, unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. 
We arent medical experts and its not for me to reach my own medical opinions or to 
substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Its also not for me to make any assumptions 
based on the medical evidence provided, or to draw any inferences into what the medical 
reports say. When making my decision about Mr Os case, Ive weighed up the evidence 
which has been provided to decide whether I think it meets the criteria for a benefit to be 
paid under Mr Os policy. 
When considering Unums actions in this case, Ive had regard to relevant industry rules. 
These say, amongst other things, that Unum should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. 
Mr Os policy provides for a claim to be paid after the end of the deferred period if the 
policyholder has suffered a loss of earnings as a result of incapacity throughout that time. 
Incapacity is defined as the policyholder being unable by reason of sickness or accident to 
perform the Material and Substantial Duties of his Occupation. 
Material and Substantial duties are stated to mean the duties which are normally required 
for the performance of the Insureds Occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or 
modified.Occupation means the occupation shown in the Schedule, or any other occupation, by 
which the Insured was earning his living immediately prior to Incapacity.
Mr Os incapacity started in March 2012  not in April 2013 as stated by Unum. This isnt in 
dispute and these details are set out in Mr Os consultant psychiatrists report dated 15 
September 2012. Its clear that Unum didnt correctly identify this, as it should have. Unum 
also didnt acknowledge its mistake in this regard to Mr O, which I think would have been 
helpful.
Mr O returned to work from November 2012 to March 2013, during which time his employer 
modified his duties to allow him to work on a part-time, phased basis. Mr O was not, as he 
has submitted, in breach of the policy definition of Material and Substantial duties because 
adjustments or modifications were made to his job role during this time. This isnt how I 
interpret the policy wording  and this isnt how policies like this ordinarily work. 
The definition of Material and Substantial duties means the policy will only pay a benefit 
where the policyholder is unable to perform the duties of their occupation, and the intrinsic 
duties of that occupation cannot reasonably be changed making it impossible for the 
policyholder to carry out that type of work. It doesnt mean that the policyholder meets the 
policy criteria for payment of a full benefit if their usual duties are changed by their employer 
in any way. The policy does, however, provide for payment of a proportionate benefit if the 
policyholder engages in their own occupation on a part-time basis, subject to the claim 
otherwise being payable. 
Mr O was unable to work again from April 2013, until he took early retirement at the end of 
2014. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy, in common with most  if not all  income 
protection insurance policies, contain a late notification clause. The policy says:
Unum may refuse to accept any claim where written notification is not received 
within 90 days after the end of the Deferred Period.
Mr O was first absent in March 2012 and this means Mr Os deferred period ran until 
September 2012. So, Mr O needed to provide Unum with written notification of his claim 
within 90 days of the deferred period ending in September 2012.  
Mr O first contacted Unum in October 2013. There was further contact between Mr O and 
Unum between 2014 and 2017. But Mr O didnt submit claim forms to Unum until October 
2018. 
I appreciate Mr O may initially have expected to have recovered by the end of the deferred 
period in September 2012, but Mr O needed to notify Unum in writing about his claim around 
ten months before he first contacted it. And Unum didnt receive Mr Os claim forms until 
over six years after hed first been absent from work in March 2012. 
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a policyholders claim 
is payable and meets the criteria for a benefit to be paid under their policy. With income 
protection insurance claims such as the one Mr O has made, these enquiries will often 
include asking the policyholders treating doctors for further information or appointing an 
independent doctor to assess or examine the policyholder. Its important that these enquiries 
or assessments are carried out as close as possible to the period of absence from work, as 
contemporaneous medical opinions are generally more persuasive than retrospective 
medical opinions. The passage of time can therefore put an insurer at a disadvantage in 
gathering medical evidence to establish whether a policyholder meets the requirements for a valid claim to be made under an income protection insurance policy, and this is the reason 
why late notification clauses such as the one Ive quoted above are generally included within 
these policies. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence which Mr O has provided in relation to his absences from 
work  namely the three medical reports from his consultant psychiatrist. I want to 
specifically state that the expertise of this psychiatrist is not being called into question. I 
understand the consultants opinion was that Mr O was unable to be fully functional in the 
workplace and was unable to discharge his full responsibilities since March 2012. However, I 
dont think the psychiatric consultants reports alone demonstrate that Mr O was completely 
unable to carry out his occupation and that he satisfied the policy definition of incapacity. 
Mr O has raised concerns about the mis-use of this medical evidence by Unum. Mr O 
provided Unum with this information but says Unum shouldnt have asked him for it. Its not 
unusual for an insurer to request medical information such as this from a policyholder, even 
if the information was prepared for a third party, and this appears to have been the only 
medical evidence Mr O had in support of his claim. The claim application form completed by 
Mr O consents to Unum being provided with medical reports from any health professional 
who has attended to him. Overall, I dont think Unum acted unfairly by asking for and 
reviewing the available medical information when assessing Mr Os claim.
Unum was prevented from making further contemporaneous enquiries into Mr Os abilities to 
carry out his occupation, such as asking further questions of Mr Os consultant psychiatrist 
or arranging for an independent assessment of Mr O, because of the late notification of the 
claim. I think there would have been little value in Unum undertaking these enquiries more 
than six years after Mr Os initial absence because of the likely limited persuasiveness of 
such evidence due to the passage of time. 
I understand Mr O says he didnt receive a copy of the policy documents from Unum when 
the policy was first taken out, so he wasnt aware of the late notification clause in the policy. 
Mr O has also mentioned various regulatory requirements and it would, of course, have been 
helpful if Unum had sent relevant documentation to Mr O when the policy started. But, even 
if there were failings on Unums part in this regard, it doesnt automatically follow that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Unum to now disregard the notification requirements of the 
policy. It was open to Mr O to contact Unum to request a copy of his policy at any time since 
1996. And, while I have no doubt that Mr O was going through a very difficult time in 2012, it 
was also open to him to contact Unum to find out about the requirements for making a claim 
at that point. 
Mr O says Unum didnt tell him about the late notification clause or the need to put details of 
his claim in writing in its correspondence and contact with him between 2013 and 2017. 
However, by the time Mr O first contacted Unum in October 2013, the notification period set 
out in his policy had already expired. Mr O told Unum in 2013 that hed be unable to 
complete claim forms until 2015. Even if Unum had told Mr O in 2013 that he needed to 
make a written claim as a matter of urgency, the claim was already outside the time-limits 
set out in the terms and conditions of the policy and Im not satisfied Mr O would have been 
in a position to do anything differently because of the sensitivities which he has explained 
surrounded his negotiations about departing from his employer. 
Ive seen correspondence from Unum to Mr O dated 2018 stating that it was aware of the 
reasons for Mr Os late notification of the claim. Ive also considered the content of a letter 
from Unum to Mr O dated February 2019, which Mr O says now prevents Unum from relying 
on the late notification clause in his policy to decline his claim. Its not appropriate for me to 
give any legal commentary on or legal interpretation to some of the questions Mr O has 
asked  this would be a matter for the courts. While the law is a factor which Ive taken into account in making my decision, this is just one of a number of relevant considerations and 
my overriding remit is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case. 
Having considered all the circumstances of Mr Os complaint, Im satisfied Unum has been 
disadvantaged by Mr Os late notification of the claim. Given the length of time that passed 
between Mr Os first absence from work in March 2012 and when he submitted claim forms 
to Unum in October 2018, I think Unum was prevented from carrying out reasonable 
investigations into Mr Os claim, as it was entitled to do. And, even if I accept that Unum 
failed to provide reasonable guidance to Mr O to help him make his claim, I dont think it 
would be proportionate to now ask Unum to disregard the notification requirements of Mr Os 
policy. Overall, Mr Os claim didnt comply with the time-limits set out in his policy and I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Unum to turn down his claim for this reason.  
Unfortunately, Mr O suffered a leg fracture in the early months of 2015. But, by that time, his 
employment had already ceased. This means Mr O no longer met the policy criteria for a 
claim to be paid to him. I understand Mr O has pointed to policy provisions referring to a loss 
of earnings based on earnings in the 12 months prior to incapacity. But, in order to meet the 
policy definition of incapacity, the policyholder needs to be unable to perform the 
occupation by which they were earning their living immediately prior to incapacity. I dont 
think Mr O was earning his living by carrying out his occupation immediately prior to his 
accident within the ordinary meaning of the words, or within the meaning of the words within 
the context of the policy, as he was no longer employed when the accident happened. 
I understand Mr O may have been restricted in what other employment he could take up 
after leaving his former employer. I also understand Mr Os explanations as to why he retired 
 his former employer wasnt prepared to agree to the restrictions set out for Mr Os return to 
work. However, Mr Os consultant said that in his professional, expert option, Mr O was fit to 
return to work on certain terms. The medical evidence Ive seen says Mr O could perform his 
occupation if certain adjustments were made for him. Any failure by Mr Os former employer 
to provide reasonable adjustments for him was a matter between Mr O and his former 
employer. Ultimately, the decision to leave his employment was Mr Os and these 
circumstances arent a situation which the policy is designed to cover. 
Even if I were to accept that the policy did cover this situation, I dont think the medical 
evidence provided demonstrates how and the extent to which Mr Os accident affected his 
ability to work, and Mr Os claim relating to the accident was also presented to Unum outside 
the time-limits prescribed by his policy. So, I dont think Mr Os accident claim is covered 
under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
 
Ive considered everything Mr O has said about his claims, as well as his comments about 
Unums actions. I understand the reason for the error in the initial information given to Unum 
by Mr O and Ive taken into account what Mr O says are discrepancies and 
misunderstandings in Unums nurses opinion of the medical evidence he provided. I also 
note Mr Os comments about the difference in opinion between certain psychiatrists having 
no bearing on his ultimate situation. Mr O has also complained about Unums note taking, its 
failure to keep him updated as promised and the content of Unums final response letter. I 
have no doubt that Mr Os preference would have been to continue working, rather than 
being in a position of having to make a claim under his income protection policy. However, 
these arguments dont change my decision. 
There appears to have been an issue with Mr Os GP sending medical records to him and/or 
Unum but any failings on the GPs part dont fall within my remit to consider. Mr O has also 
queried whether he would have been entitled to claim under his policy due to his lower earnings in certain years dating back to 2011. Lower earnings alone wouldnt entitle Mr O to 
claim under this policy, as the policy only pays out in the event of incapacity. 
As a final point, Mr O has mentioned that Unum made an error in calculating the amount of 
benefit due under his policy if his claim had been successful. This service has no power to 
investigate a complaint unless the business involved has first been given the opportunity to 
consider it. This complaint point isnt one that Unum has been given the chance to look into 
and respond to, so I cant comment on the matter within this decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O. Its clear he has been through a very difficult time, and he has 
my sympathy for everything he experienced. But I wont be asking Unum to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman