DRN-2243233
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that MBNA Limited didnt process monetary transfers he attempted to make 
in an efficient manner. Mr O also isnt happy with the service he received from MBNA 
Limited surrounding this matter.
What happened
Mr O attempted to make a transfer from his MBNA account to an account that he holds with 
another bank. However, the transfer didnt go through. Mr O wasnt happy about this, so he 
made a complaint to MBNA.
MBNA looked at Mr Os complaint. They couldnt find any reason why the transfer hadnt 
been successful, but they acknowledged that Mr O had incurred some inconvenience and so 
they apologised to Mr O and credited him with £70 to cover the cost of the phone calls hed 
had to make and as compensation for the inconvenience hed incurred.
Following this, Mr O made several other attempts to make a transfer to his other bank using 
his mobile phone, but without success. Mr O raised this point with MBNA and requested 
further compensation. But MBNA couldnt find any record that the transfers Mr O was 
referring to had been attempted, so they declined Mr Os request for further compensation. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, and he felt that MBNA were falsifying data and 
that the level of service that hed received from them was poor. Mr O was also unhappy 
about the length of a 0% interest rate offer on his account. So, he referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that MBNA had handled Mr 
Os transfer requests, and his account in general, appropriately, and that the amount of 
compensation that MBNA had already paid to Mr O was reasonable and commensurate with 
what this service would expect. So, they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr O feels strongly about this complaint and also that the amount of 
compensation that MBNA have paid him so far doesnt go far enough to address the distress 
and inconvenience that he has incurred here.
MBNA acknowledged that the initial transfer that Mr O requested didnt go through, but they 
were unable to find a reason as to why this was the case, and so they were unable to 
confirm which party, if any, was at fault for the transfer not completing. Despite this, MBNA 
apologised to Mr O and compensated him for the inconvenience he had incurred. 
Given that MBNA hadnt found any evidence to suggest that they were at fault for transfer 
not going through, its difficult not to conclude that their response here, including the 
payment of £70 to Mr O, constitutes good customer service. And I say this because MBNA 
effectively compensated Mr O for an issue which hadnt been confirmed to have been 
caused by themselves.
With regard the subsequent transfer attempts that Mr O tried to make using his telephone 
and which werent successful, I can understand why this must have been frustrating and 
concerning to Mr O, but Im not convinced that the failure of these transfers to complete was 
because of any action or omission by MBNA, and one of the reasons I say this is because 
MBNA themselves have no record of many of these transfers having ever been attempted. 
It also must be noted that there were other channels by which Mr O could have made the 
transfers he was attempting to make, and I note that Mr O did call MBNA and successfully 
made monetary transfers over the telephone on several occasions.
Mr O initially asked MBNA to pay him £1000 to compensate him for the transfer attempts he 
made not completing, before subsequently increasing his request to £300,000. This seems 
unreasonable to me, and the amount is significantly more than his service would consider 
commensurate, if it were the case that it could be demonstrated that MBNA had been at fault 
for the transfers not completing, and if it were the case that this service was considering 
instructing MBNA to pay compensation because of this  neither of which are the case in this 
instance. 
Mr O also complained about the length of a 0% interest rate offer on his account. But having 
reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Os account I cant find any evidence that these 
terms have been applied incorrectly as they relate to the 0% interest rate offer. Indeed, 
MBNA offered Mr O an additional three-month period at 0% interest. This compounds my 
conclusion that generally speaking, Mr O has received good customer service from MBNA.
Finally, Mr O has expressed his belief that MBNA are falsifying data to this service. I have 
examined carefully all the information provided to this service by both MBNA and Mr O, and I 
can find nothing which would cause me to suspect that MBNA have falsified or amended in 
any way the information that they have provided.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr O was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking MBNA to take any further action at this time. I hope Mr 
O can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman