DRN-3188914
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK plc (Santander) took an unreasonable length of time before 
declining his mortgage application.
What happened
Mr W has explained he was looking to rent out his existing home and obtain a buy to let 
mortgage on this property from another provider. This would release some equity, which 
would form part of his contribution to the new home he was looking to buy. With that in mind 
Mr W says he approached Santander in July 2020, via his broker and received an 
agreement in principal for a new mortgage. Following this, in September 2020 he had an 
offer accepted on a property and submitted a formal mortgage request to Santander that 
month. Mr W says despite his broker providing Santander with verification of his income and 
Accountants certifications, Santander took until close to the date Mr W had agreed to 
complete the purchase on 27 November 2020, to decline his mortgage application. This 
meant Mr W had no opportunity to look elsewhere for another mortgage provider and he lost 
the property he was looking to buy and incurred legal and accounting fees, in excess of 
£1,300 plus VAT. Mr W wants Santander to refund these costs and pay him compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Santander says the time it took to come to a decision was because they required further 
information from Mr Ws broker to support Mr Ws application, which was justifiable given the 
changes in Mr Ws income. Santander says as a responsible lender they needed to consider 
the impact of Covid on businesses like Mr Ws, and they couldnt rely on any proposed rental 
income on his existing property, as it hadnt been let at that stage. Santander feel they 
havent done anything wrong here.
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander couldnt be held responsible for any delays before declining the 
mortgage application, as they needed further information before they could come to their 
decision. The investigator felt Santander were within their rights to request the information 
they did, before coming to a lending decision.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating and disappointing for Mr W to learn his 
mortgage application had been declined, so close to the completion date of his new property 
purchase. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Santander had taken an 
unreasonable length of time before coming to a decision to decline Mr Ws mortgage 
application. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
Its worth saying at the outset, while Mr W may not agree with the decision made by 
Santander to decline his mortgage application, his complaint to this service centres around 
the time it took Santander to make that decision.  
Its fair to say that although Mr W received an agreement in principal in July 2020 from 
Santander for a mortgage, this was always going to be subject to a full mortgage application 
assessment which Mr Ws broker submitted in mid-September 2020, following Mr W having 
an offer accepted on a property he wished to purchase. 
From the information provided to this service, I can see between mid-September 2020 and 
late November 2020, Santander were in communication with Mr Ws broker requesting 
various information, including accountant certification, income verification of his main self-
employed income and subsequently further information about his second self-employed 
income stream. Also, during this time Santander carried out a mortgage valuation on the 
property due to be purchased. What is important here, is in mid-November 2020 Santander 
advised Mr Ws broker they couldnt provide a mortgage for the amount requested and 
asked if Mr W would be happy to proceed with the mortgage at a lower amount and if Mr W 
could make up the shortfall. While I accept Mr Ws broker responded promptly, its fair to say 
at this stage, no formal mortgage agreement was in place, with only a matter of a couple of 
weeks before Mr W had agreed to take possession of the property he was looking to buy. 
Santander, based on this new mortgage amount, asked Mr Ws broker to further clarify Mr 
Ws income as they needed to understand why there was a difference in the new information 
provided and his original application. Having received clarification from the broker on 25 
November 2020 , close to the proposed completion date, Santander declined the mortgage 
application.
While I can understand that Mr W felt Santander were unreasonably asking for information 
they already had of his self-employed status in the travel industry and his other self-
employed income, Im not persuaded by his argument. I say this because, as I mentioned 
earlier I also need to take into account this happened at an unprecedented time, during the 
Covid pandemic and its impact on many businesses at that time. 
As a result, I feel Santander like many lenders, would take a more forensic look at long term 
lending requests, particularly where their decision is based on self-employed individuals 
incomes potentially impacted by the pandemic. Here, its fair to say Mr Ws main source of 
income came from the travel-sector, which was badly affected, so I can understand why 
Santander would have wanted to have been certain they were lending responsibly here. This 
may have led to Santander asking for more comprehensive and detailed information to 
satisfy their credit underwriters criteria, and as a result could have taken longer to complete 
the mortgage process, than perhaps it may have in normal circumstances. That said, I cant 
see any formal agreement was ever provided by Santander, other than the agreement in 
principal, back in July 2020.  
I understand Mr W felt Santander could have taken into account the fact he was going to 
rent out his existing property, producing sufficient extra income to pay both his new buy to let mortgage and his new mortgage with Santander. Santander have said they couldnt rely on 
the proposed rental income as the property hadnt been let at that stage, and their criteria is 
they require evidence of three months rental income before it can be assessed  I cant say 
that is unreasonable and its not for me to tell Santander what criteria they must accept here. 
So here, I am satisfied this wasnt a straightforward mortgage request and Mr Ws financial 
commitments were about to change with the addition of a new sizeable buy to let mortgage. 
Its also fair to say there was continued impact in the sector from where Mr Ws main income 
was derived as a result of the Covid pandemic. So, its understandable this would have 
resulted in perhaps more detailed information being requested by Santander, which in turn 
led to the time it took before they came to their lending decision. 
Although I can understand Mr W had expected the formalities for his mortgage application to 
have been completed in time for the completion date he had agreed to, there was no 
guarantee of this and I cant, for the reasons I have already explained, hold Santander 
responsible for that. I have seen no evidence to suggest Santander have deliberately acted 
in a way that delayed matters here, or asked for unnecessary information, before they came 
to their decision to decline the mortgage application. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman