DRN-1616044
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
about 1999. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold the PPI. 
What happened
Because of the time that as passed, Lloyds can no longer confirm the date on which the PPI 
was sold. But the credit card started in early 1999 and the first statement that Lloyds has 
been able to send to us is from early 2000. This shows an entry for a PPI premium. So I 
think its fair and reasonable to decide this complaint on the basis that the PPI was sold at 
about the same time as the credit card in late 1998 or early 1999. 
Mr P says that the PPI was bought over the Internet and that Lloyds didnt give him any 
advice. But he is trying to recall something that took place more than 20 years ago. So, to be 
fair to Mr P, Ive assumed that Lloyds did recommend the policy to him and that the sale took 
place in a meeting
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. But Mr P disagreed, 
so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds no longer has any of the paperwork signed by Mr P. But it has sent us a sample 
of the credit card application form that was in use at the time I have assumed the sale 
took place. This has a section in it dealing with PPI which says that Lloyds strongly 
recommends the insurance is taken out. There is also a box which must be ticked to 
request the policy. I find that this makes it clear that the applicant has a choice whether 
to take the insurance or not. And, as I have no other evidence to the contrary, I find that 
Ive nothing on which to base a finding that Lloyds failed to make it clear to Mr P that the 
PPI was optional;
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this 
because:
oIm aware that Mr P was self-employed at the time of the sale. But the policy says 
that this doesnt stop him being eligible. And, from the information we have, it seems 
Mr P satisfied the other eligibility requirements;
oThe terms of the policy were such that Mr Ps self-employment didnt make his ability 
to make a claim for unemployment any more restricted than that for an employee. 
And he wasnt affected by any of the policies other main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oFollowing a successful claim for illness, injury or unemployment, the PPI would have 
paid 10% of Mr Ps credit card balance a month. These payments would have been 
made for up to 12 months. As Mr P hasnt told us that he had any other insurance or 
savings, I find that the policy could have been of use to him;
oThe policy cost 72p for each £100 outstanding on Mr Ps credit card account. This 
was a competitive price by reference to other similar policies available at the time. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for 
Mr P. In any event, had he later felt that he couldnt afford the policy, he could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
The sample application form, to which Ive referred earlier, explains the cost of the policy, 
its monthly benefit and the 12-month limit on payments for any one claim. But its 
possible the rest of the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. For instance, that he would have had to continue paying the 
premiums during a claim, making the benefits less valuable than Mr P might have 
expected. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover;
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reason Ive given my decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank 
PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman