DRN-3836368
The complaint
Mrs A, represented by a relative, complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, refused to refund her when she said a cash machine hadnt dispensed £400.
What happened
On 14 March 2022, Mrs A went to take out £400 from a cash machine outside a Halifax 
branch. She put in her Halifax card, and entered her PIN number and the amount she 
wanted. Mrs A said a yellow light came on and a warning sign, and then it gave her her card 
back without either a receipt or her money.
Mrs A said she waited for a bit, but there was a queue waiting behind her so she left. She 
saw the customer behind her put his card in, but didnt see any money come out. Ten days 
later, on 24 March, Mrs As relative took her shopping, where Mrs A withdrew £200 
successfully with a receipt. The receipt showed that Mrs A had less money than she thought, 
so her relative took her to the Halifax branch the next day, 25 March.
The Halifax cashier reported Mrs As complaint. On 14 April Halifax credited a temporary 
£400 credit, and a £13.76 interest adjustment, to Mrs As account while Halifax investigated.  
In early May, Mrs A had a letter from Halifax saying that there hadnt been an error with the 
machine and it would be re-debiting the temporary credits. Halifax re-debited the £400 
disputed transaction and £13.76 interest adjustment on 6 May.
Mrs A complained, and her representative also asked Halifax to check CCTV. In Halifaxs 
final response letter, it said that evidence presented had shown there were no errors with the 
machine shed used, and that the £400 had been dispensed. Halifax also said that CCTV 
was recorded for the prevention and detection of crim, and to ensure the safety of staff and 
the public. It wasnt installed to monitor withdrawals and wouldnt be used for a cash 
machine dispute.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied and, helped by a representative, contacted this service. Mrs As 
representative set out what had happened, and said Mrs A was a single mother with young 
children, who was getting benefits, so how was she meant to pay her bills. Mrs As 
representative said she and other family members had helped until Mrs As next benefits 
came in, but Mrs A still needed the money back. Mrs As representative said that Mrs A 
would like Halifax to give back the £400 that Mrs A had never taken out, and would like the 
CCTV to be checked, to show what had happened.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. He said that the technical evidence from 
the machine showed that £400 had been dispensed. Mrs A had said she hadnt seen anyone 
else take the money. And he said that Mrs As evidence that she didnt get a receipt had also 
been contradicted by the technical evidence. So there was no evidence of a cash machine 
error.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she didnt receive the money, and she was a single parent so 
£400 was a lot for her, and it was her money which she hadnt had. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive seen includes technical computer evidence from the cash machine, called 
a journal roll. This shows in detail everything thats happened. This shows that Mrs A put in 
her card and PIN to start the withdrawal at 13.30 pm on 14 March. It shows that she 
requested a £400 withdrawal with a receipt. It records that the machine dispensed four £10 
notes and 18 £20 notes. This totals £400. The card was removed and the session ended.
The technical evidence also shows that the next user didnt put their card in until six minutes 
later. Mrs A had said shed moved aside because there was a queue behind her. But that 
doesnt tally with it being six minutes before the next person put their card in. If Mrs A had 
had to stand aside because there had been a queue, I dont think the person behind would 
have waited six minutes before starting their transaction.
The technical evidence also shows there was no fault with the machine, and that other 
people successfully used the machine both before and after Mrs As transaction that day.
I also note that the disputed transaction happened on 14 March. But it wasnt until ten days 
later on 24 March that Mrs A mentioned this to her relative, who then took Mrs A to the 
branch the next day to report it. Mrs As relative explained that Mrs A doesnt know much 
English, and didnt really use mobile banking either. But Id still have expected Mrs A to have 
spoken to a relative or friend about what had happened, sooner than 10 days later. And 
whatever Mrs A had needed the £400 withdrawal for, if she hadnt received the money shed 
have wanted to get it some other way. Theres no mention of her not being able to do 
whatever shed wanted the £400 for, or why she didnt need to contact Halifax, with 
appropriate family help, before ten days later.
Mrs As representative asked Halifax for CCTV. But CCTV, even if available, rarely shows 
enough detail to help with this type of complaint. Thats because it would have to have 
shown clearly who was withdrawing the money, as well as what came out of the slot and 
who picked it up. And CCTV, even if there is a camera nearby, is rarely kept for long before 
being recorded over. So it wouldnt help me reach a decision. Its the technical computer 
records which shows clearly what happened.
I recognise that Mrs As representative says that £400 was a lot of money to Mrs A, because 
she was a single parent and her only income was benefits. I can understand why Mrs As 
representative was concerned about what happened, and I can see that she and family 
members put some money into Mrs As account to help her. Im sorry to hear that Mrs A is in 
a difficult situation, but I can only take my decision on what actually happened at the 
machine. I cant change what that technical evidence shows, according to Mrs As situation. 
Having looked at the evidence, I find that theres nothing to show that the machine was 
faulty. It shows that Mrs As £400 was successfully dispensed. So I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman