DRN-3716151
The complaint
Mr S complains that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) missed the deadline to submit 
his complaint for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and they also instructed 
debt collectors to recover their fees on a separate PPI complaint even though Mr S hadnt 
received his compensation.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go into much detail. 
But, to summarise, Mr S instructed WFAC to handle a number of PPI complaints. Mr S then 
received a letter from a debt collector which referred to an outstanding fee owed to WFAC  
which he then paid to the debt collector. Mr S complained as the fee related to a complaint 
against Lender S in which Mr S hadnt received any compensation at that point. Mr S also 
complained that he hadnt received an update on his complaint against Lender G. WFAC 
responded and explained theyd made an error and, having contacted Lender S, they were 
made aware an acceptance slip had never been signed so no payment had been made. 
They also accepted, due to a system error, they didnt provide Lender G with all information 
to enable them to investigate the complaint. WFAC explained the PPI deadline had now 
passed so theyre unable to pursue the complaint against Lender G. WFAC apologised for 
the errors and agreed to refund the fee paid by Mr S and to postpone payment until Mr S 
receives the compensation.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He thought WFAC had made errors and 
recommended they refund the fee paid together with 8% simple interest, and pay £250 
compensation for the loss of opportunity to pursue the complaint against Lender G. WFAC 
agreed but Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr S. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality. So, given that WFAC accept they got 
things wrong, Ill focus on whether I think the offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I think its right that WFAC should refund the fee paid by Mr S. WFAC accept it wasnt due at 
that point and theyd made an error in instructing a debt collector to recover this. Mr S 
though hasnt had the benefit of this money from the point it was paid so I think the payment 
of 8% simple interest on the fee paid will put this right. 
Theres no dispute that WFAC didnt provide the necessary information to enable Lender G 
to look into Mr Ss complaint. And, given that the deadline to submit PPI complaints has 
passed, Mr S has lost his opportunity to pursue this PPI complaint. In these circumstances, I 
think WFAC should pay compensation to Mr S. This compensation isnt a speculative 
assessment on what compensation mightve followed a successful complaint against Lender 
G  rather its to reflect the lost opportunity to Mr S to pursue the complaint to a final 
outcome. So, for this, WFAC should pay £250 compensation to Mr S.  
I can see Mr S has provided a credit agreement which he says proves there was PPI on his 
account. I am sorry to disappoint Mr S, but my role is to look at the service provided by 
WFAC and not an assessment of any PPI on his account with Lender G. It was for Lender G 
to investigate whether PPI was mis-sold and, if so, what compensation is owed. From the 
information Ive seen, that hasnt been determined  and thats why I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for WFAC to pay £250 for the lost opportunity. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that WFAC have made errors so they should refund the fee paid by Mr S 
together with 8% interest per year simple from the date Mr S paid, until the date WFAC settle 
this complaint. WFAC can then send an invoice for their fee once Mr S receives his 
compensation from Lender S.  Ive taken the view that WFAC havent taken reasonable 
steps to progress Mr Ss complaint against Lender G and this has led to a lost opportunity for 
Mr S to pursue this to a final outcome. So, WFAC should pay Mr S compensation of £250. 
WFAC should provide Mr S with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. We Fight Any Claim Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman