DRN-3736862
The complaint
Ms C complains about charges shes been asked to pay after she returned a car she had
been financing through an agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited
(MBFS).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ms C has been represented by her husband at times but for ease, and because Ms C is
named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to her in this decision. I mean no
disrespect to Mr C when doing so.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im expecting to partially uphold this complaint as I dont think MBFS have
been fair when charging to replace the headlight.
Ms C acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Ms C responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
Ms C says the contract doesnt allow for a second inspection. Shes explained that the
contract says its the condition of the car on return that is important, and the return date is
the date of collection and not the subsequent date of the second inspection. If the condition
of the car had deteriorated after the point of collection then I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Ms C responsible for that deterioration. But Im not persuaded there is sufficient
evidence the car has been damaged after collection.
Whilst I understand Ms C suggests some of the damage may have occurred in transit when
the car was being taken to the auction site, I dont have sufficient evidence to say the
damage wasnt present when the car left Ms C. I think its much more likely the damage
would have been sustained in Ms Cs prolonged tenure than in the couple of days before the
final inspection took place.
Ms C says that a second inspection is unfair as that gives MBFS two opportunities to identify
damage whilst she has only had one. I dont think the opportunity to spot damage is a
relevant consideration. The issue here is whether the car had damage that was in excess of
the relevant standard. And, regardless, I think Ms C had much more opportunity to spot
damage in her extended tenure than MBFS would have had over the course of two
inspections.
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement, so I dont think theyve
been unreasonable when inspecting the car twice.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Ms C says the contract only refers to the VRS and this is therefore the only standard that
should be considered. I think the VRS is in general a more rigorous standard than the
BVRLA. Ive therefore considered the BVRLA guidance too as where it is more lenient I may
want to consider why MBFS thought it reasonable not to follow industry guidance.
I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge for the headlight damage
The BVRLA guidance says all lamps and lamp units must work. Minor scuff marks or
scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable.
MBFS have explained that the VRS says:
All lamps and units must be operational. Scuffs or scratches of 25mm or less are
acceptable. Holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of the lamp units are not
acceptable. Where fitted, the vehicles ADAS (automated driver assistance systems) must
have been recalibrated following the replacement of a lamp or lamp unit.
Ive looked at the VRS and it says:
Headlamp lenses with minor chips, which do not detract from the overall appearance of
your vehicle or affect the efficiency of the lamp are acceptable.
And All lamps must be operational, holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp
units are not acceptable. 
That standard is repeated in the hire contract and I can find no reference to scratching of the 
lens being unreasonable. I note that the charging matrix that MBFS publish doesnt provide a 
cost for damage to scratched headlights either. Theres simply a provision for replacement of 
headlights that have cracks or holes or are broken.
The inspectors photographs dont appear to show any cracks or holes in the headlight. They
do show a large scratch but theres no evidence the headlight isnt operational. Whilst the
BVRLA guidance would suggest the scratched lens was beyond fair wear and tear MBFS
appear to have chosen to be more lenient in their standard. That was a decision for them to
make, but having done so, I dont think its fair for them to make a charge for refurbishment
or replacement of the headlight here when its condition hasnt breached their standard.I think the following charges have been fairly levied.
Alloy wheel damage
The BVRLA guidelines state, any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the
alloy wheel is not acceptable and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
The VRS says, Dents on the wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. Chips,
scratches or scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are acceptable,
providing they can be repaired to a professional standard. Any damage to the wheel spokes,
fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. There should be no rust or corrosion on
the alloy wheels.
I think there are scuffs in excess of 50mm on the total circumference of both damaged
alloys, so the charge is reasonable.
Tyre cut
The BVRLA guidelines state, there must be no damage to sidewalls or tread and similarly
the VRS says, Any gouge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall is not acceptable.
The tyre here is cut on the sidewall so the charge is reasonable.
Bumper scratch
The BVRLA guidelines state, surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare
metal is now showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four
surface scratches on one panel is acceptable.
And the VRS says, Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base
coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not
acceptable.
The scratch here looks to be longer than 50 mm and its penetrated the base coat. So, I think
the charge is reasonable as the damage is in excess of the guidance.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration that MBFS failed to identify the presence of the spare
key but when they did realise their error they did remove the charge. I dont think the fact a
mistake was made is reason to subsequently waive any of the other charges; those charges
appear to have been levied legitimately.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
MBFS to waive the charge they have made to replace the headlight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision MBFS said:After reviewing our standards and the customers agreement I can see that although it 
doesn't state the exact mm it should fall underAfter reviewing these guidelines and the 
images provided of the scuff we have both agreed that these marks do not fit within the
standards set out for the customer. They therefore agreed to remove the charge for the 
hand lamp.
Ms C said the fact MBFS made a mistake when initially charging for a missing key was 
important. She said it demonstrated they were not following their own procedures as, if they 
had, the presence of the key would have been reported earlier. She suggested this lack of 
reporting could explain why damage that was done after the car had left her possession was 
not reported. 
I understand Ms Cs point and in my provisional decision I think I considered it. I said:
I can understand Ms Cs frustration that MBFS failed to identify the presence of the spare
key but when they did realise their error they did remove the charge. I dont think the fact a
mistake was made is reason to subsequently waive any of the other charges; those charges
appear to have been levied legitimately.
Im not therefore prepared to ask MBFS to remove any additional charges, but I do think they 
should waive the charge for the replacement headlight.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision on this complaint. My provisional decision therefore becomes my final 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to waive the charge they have made to replace the headlight.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman