DRN-3043434
The complaint
 Mr Y complains about the behaviour of Mohammed Waseem Saleem and Mohammed 
Saleem trading as Motor Arena (Motor Arena). In particular, Mr Y complains that Motor 
Arena kept money that it ought to have passed on to him so that he could pay a third party. 
What happened
 Its Mr Ys position that in June 2018 he was in the market for a new car. However, he 
already had a car which I will call car 1. Car 1 had been supplied to Mr Y under a hire 
purchase agreement.  He had taken out the hire purchase agreement with a third party 
company who I will call S. Mr Y explained his situation to another third party, an individual, 
who is not a party to this complaint. This individual put Mr Y in touch with Motor Arena.
Motor Arena had several different roles in this complaint, I will describe them all. It is very 
important in this complaint that I distinguish each of Motor Arenas roles. This is because our 
service only has power to look at the actions that Motor Arena took when it was carrying out 
a regulated activity for the purposes of the rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
According to Mr Y, Motor Arena suggested it could both help him get finance for a new car 
and help him pay off the finance on car 1. What Motor Arena suggested was the following, it 
does not appear that this is in dispute. 
Motor Arena is a car retailer amongst other things. As a car retailer it had a car that Mr Y 
was interested in, I will call this car 2. Car 2, cost £9,480.  But Mr Y did not have the money 
to buy car 2, he needed credit. 
Motor Arena suggested a relatively complex process to Mr Y. Namely that Mr Y could 
acquire car 2 by using a finance agreement with a third party company who I will call M. 
But Motor Arena did not suggest approaching M directly. Rather, Motor Arena suggested it 
would introduce Mr Y to another third party company I will call N. The purpose of 
introducing Mr Y to N was to ultimately help get Mr Y finance from M. By doing this Motor 
Arena was carrying out the regulated activity of credit broking. 
The plan was that N would then put Mr Y in touch with M, so that M could provide finance to 
Mr Y. N was also carrying out the regulated activity of credit broking too. But this complaint is 
against Motor Arena only. 
In the background Motor Arena, as a retailer, would sell car 2 to M. In turn M would then 
supply car 2 to Mr Y under a new finance agreement with him. 
Mr Y needed to bring his agreement for car 1 to end, in order to do this, he chose a process 
known as voluntarily termination. This is a process where a debtor makes a payment to the 
lender and hands back the car. Mr Y believed he needed to pay S £1,770 to voluntarily 
terminate (it seems he actually needed to pay around £100 more than this but it appears Mr 
Y was unaware of this). Therefore, Mr Y thought he needed £11,250 in total (= £9,480 (cash 
price of car 2) + £1,770 (amount Mr Y believed he needed to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement for car 1) = £11,250).
Motor Arena suggested it would tell N that car 2 cost £11,250. N, in good faith, would then 
tell M that Mr Y needed to borrow £11,250 under the proposed finance agreement with it to 
acquire car 2. Once Mr Y entered into the finance agreement with M, M would, in good faith, 
send £11,250 to Motor Arena. Motor Arena suggested it would then take £9,480 out of the 
£11,250 for car 2, and, also pass on the balance to Mr Y so he could pay S. Plus, it seems in 
order to secure the £11,250 Motor Arena sent N an invoice showing the cash price of car 2 
as being £11,250. I am able to say that both N and M were acting in good faith as both 
parties to this complaint appear to agree that they did not tell either N or M about their plan.
Mr Y says he arranged with S and Motor Arena that he would drop off car 1 at Motor Arenas 
premises when he came to collect car 2. Further, Mr Y tells us S had agreed with him that it 
would pick up car 1 within 48 hours from Motor Arenas premises.
By providing advice to Mr Y about how to settle his debt in relation to the agreement for car 1 
Motor Arena was carrying out the regulated activity of debt counselling. Further, by agreeing 
to the scheme to allow Mr Y to pay off the debt with S, Motor Arena was carrying out the 
regulated activity of debt adjusting.
Mr Y also tells us that Motor Arena promised him a full tank of diesel on collection of car 2. 
But says he never got this. It is not clear when this promise was made.
Mr Y went ahead with the deal with M. He acquired car 2 and it is his position that when he 
went to pick up car 2 Motor Arena was meant to give him the £1,770 but it did not. He also 
dropped off car 1 at Motor Arenas showroom thinking he tells us that S had agreed to pick 
the car up from there (as I have already mentioned).
Moreover, Mr Y tells us that within two days of acquiring car 2 he had to carry out urgent 
repairs to it. He thinks this means that the car was not of satisfactory quality and he wants us 
to look at this part of his complaint against Motor Arena. Mr Ys stance is that Motor Arena 
promised to repay him for these repairs, and he requests this money.
There is no dispute that Motor Arena did receive the £11,250. However, it did not send the 
£1,770 to Mr Y. Neither is there any dispute that Motor Arena did anything about contacting 
Mr Y about car 1 when S did not collect it.
Many months later S took court action against Mr Y to recover its car and the outstanding 
debt owed by Mr Y to it under their finance agreement. This court action was successful, and 
a county court judgement was made against him. Mr Y thinks Motor Arena is responsible for 
this.
Mr Y wants to recover the full £1,770 from Motor Arena. He also wants it to refund him for 
the full tank of diesel and for the repairs he did to car 2. In addition, he wants Motor Arena to 
take responsibility for what happened with S and the county court judgement.
Further, Mr Y asks for compensation for the costs of the phone calls he tells us he made to 
Motor Arena and also a payment for distress and inconvenience.
Motor Arena did not respond to Mr Y. Therefore, Mr Y complained to this service.
Once Mr Ys complaint was with us, Motor Arena responded - in October 2020. At first it 
suggested it was entitled to the £1,770 which it indicated it had kept. It suggested that the 
reason it kept the £1,770 was because Mr Y owed it a storage fee for car 1. But then when 
we questioned it about its version of events, Motor Arena was unable to demonstrate it had 
made any arrangement with Mr Y to charge him for storage fees. In any event it was unable 
to demonstrate how storage fees had been incurred at the point when it received the funds 
from M.  Further it agreed to pay the £1,770 to Mr Y but asked if it could set up a payment 
plan with him to do this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He recommended that Motor Arena 
should refund the £1,770 with interest and pay Mr Y £1,000 for distress and inconvenience. 
However, he did not agree he could fairly and reasonably hold Motor Arena responsible for 
the court action and subsequent recovery actions taken by S against Mr Y. Further, he explained why we could not tell Motor Arena it had to compensate him for the diesel and the 
repairs.
Mr Y accepted our investigators recommendation we have received no reply from Motor 
Arena as far as I am aware.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
There appears to be no dispute that Mr Y and Motor Arena had a deal. In short, as I 
mentioned above, the agreement was that Motor Arena told N and M that the cash price for 
car 2 was £11, 250. It did this with the intention of securing an extra £1,770 that was meant 
to go to Mr Y who in turn was going to use it to voluntarily terminate his agreement with S for 
car 1.
For reasons that are unclear Motor Arena kept the money instead of giving it straightaway to 
Mr Y. Motor Arena has not denied this was the case. Although it did initially suggest it was 
entitled to retain the £1,770 as a storage fee. It appears though it is no longer relying on that 
argument. However, just in case I am mistaken about this point, I have dealt with the storage 
fee issue. 
Motor Arena suggests that Mr Y was aware from the beginning that a storage fee would be 
charged. That in turn implies that this is something it agree up front with Mr Y.
But I cant see why it is likely Motor Arena would have insisted on and negotiated a storage 
fee as part of the overall arrangement with Mr Y. I say this because Mr Y tells us he thought 
that S would collect car 1 from Motor Arena within 48 hours and that is what he told Motor 
Arena. Motor Arena has not said this is incorrect. Therefore, why a storage fee agreement 
would have been necessary for a car that was only intended to be with Motor Arena for 48 
hours maximum is not clear. 
Even if such an agreement had been made, it appears that Motor Arena charged Mr Y 
£1,770 for storage fees that had not even been incurred at the time it retained the money. I 
say this because Mr Y indicates that he dropped off car 1 at Motor Arenas premises at the 
same time as M transferred the whole of the £11,250 which included the £1,770. So, when 
Motor Arena received the money from M, car 1 had only just arrived. Motor Arena has not 
explained how the storage charge which it suggests was a daily charge came into play at the 
point when the car had been stored with it for zero days.  
Further, if Mr Y had been aware of the storage charge and that Motor Arena intended to hold 
onto the £1,770 as security for the storage fee, I would have expected Mr Y to arrange for 
car 1 to be collected without further delay. In order that that Motor Arena would then release 
the £1,770 and also so that the whole of the £1,770 would not be spent on the storage 
charge.
For all these reasons, I am not persuaded by what Motor Arena says about its entitlement to 
keep the £1,770. It follows that I think it fair and reasonable that it must now pay Mr Y the 
£1,770 as it originally agreed it would do. Moreover, I also think that it is fair and reasonable 
that Motor Arena must pay interest on this refund. Motor Arena has not demonstrated that it 
is unable to pay this sum in a lump sum payment. And therefore, I dont agree that it should 
be permitted to make payment to Mr Y over time via a payment plan.
I can well understand that when Motor Arena did not hand over the £1,770 that left Mr Y in 
something of a bind. It seems he had no immediate alternative means of making the voluntarily termination payment to S. S ultimately cancelled the voluntarily termination and 
sought to recover its car through court action. That said, I could only hold Motor Arena 
responsible for S going to court following the botched voluntary termination if I thought Motor 
Arenas actions led directly to Ss decision to go to court and I dont. I say this for a number 
of reasons. 
S did not go to court immediately. Rather from the information I have seen, at first it tried to 
engage with Mr Y to complete the voluntary termination. It took quite a while for S to 
abandon this approach and start court action. On balance, S might well have taken a 
different approach, if its car had been returned to it in line with the requirements set out in 
the agreement. Once it had its asset it would have been protected from the greatest part of 
any potential loss. That being so, S might have been willing to talk to Mr Y about how he 
could make the voluntarily termination payment to it. Especially if he explained how Motor 
Arena had kept the money and his financial difficulties. But Mr Y did not return the car to S it 
seems from what he tells us. 
In addition, I have seen a letter from S to Mr Y it makes it clear that either Mr Y had to pay S 
to get an agent to collect car 1 or he had to return car 1 at a designated site. Motor Arena 
was not Ss agent neither was its forecourt one of the designated sites. So, Mr Y did not 
comply with the terms of his agreement with S about voluntarily termination. I know, Mr Y 
says he made arrangements with S to collect car 1 from Motor Arena, I make no finding 
about that, although it seems unlikely that S would have not collected its car if that was the 
agreement. As I have already mentioned S had a commercial interest in securing its asset. 
But in any event all of this was nothing to do with Motor Arena.  
Further, it does not seem that Mr Y ever checked that S did collect car 1, if he had done so 
that too might have stopped S going to court. This was not something Motor Arena can 
properly be held to account for. 
Moreover, Mr Y chose not to mitigate his losses it does not appear he offered to make 
payments to S while he tried to persuade Motor Arena to hand over the £1,770. Neither does 
it appear that he plead his case in court explaining the wider circumstances. 
For all of these reasons, although I recognise this may disappoint Mr Y, I have no proper 
basis for saying Motor Arena has to take responsibility for the losses that Mr Y incurred due 
to the court action by S or for S going to court in the first place.
That said, in the circumstances Motor Arena has behaved in a manner that breached the 
agreement it had with Mr Y. This breach very likely caused Mr Y considerable avoidable 
distress and inconvenience. It did not keep to its side of the bargain and give the £1,770 
immediately to Mr Y. Mr Y suggests Motor Arena never explained its stance at the time, and 
Motor Arena has not disputed this. Im satisfied that it did leave Mr Y in the dark about why it 
was keeping the money initially. 
Further, from the information I have seen I am satisfied that Motor Arena took from June 
2018 until October 2020 to give Mr Y any explanation at all for its actions in retaining the 
£1,770. It does not seem to have had any reasonable explanation for why it took so long to 
respond. It then raised the point about the storage fee that I have found it has been unable 
to substantiate. 
All of this I think would have had a considerable impact on Mr Y in terms of distress and 
inconvenience. I think that £1,000 is an appropriate award for this.
Mr Y asks that Motor Arena pay him back for the diesel he said it promised . The thrust of 
the deal seemed to be that Motor Arena would help Mr Y sort out the payment of his debt on 
car 1 by helping Mr Y get new finance and also that it would help him acquire car 2. I dont 
think that the promise of the diesel was done as part and parcel of any regulated activity that 
Motor Arena was carrying out. Rather it seems like it was a goodwill gesture at most from 
Motor Arena, and that is not something I have the power to look into or enforce.As for the promise to pay for the repairs. That promise necessarily came after the regulated 
activities had been completed. If the promise was made it was I think on balance a goodwill 
gesture, and I have no power to enforce that. I say that this promise was a gesture of 
goodwill, because Motor Arena did not supply the car to Mr Y, M did. So, Mr Y as against 
Motor Arena, cannot rely on consumer legislation that says goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality when a business supplies goods to a consumer. Given that Motor Arena had no legal 
obligation towards Mr Y for the quality of car 2 that also makes me think it is unlikely it 
agreed to pay for the repairs.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that Mohammed Waseem Saleem and Mohammed Saleem trading as 
Motor Arena must:
Pay £1,770 to Mr Y plus interest. The interest is to be paid at the rate of 8% a year 
simple and the interest to run from the date M first sent the £11,250 to Mohammed 
Waseem Saleem and Mohammed Saleem trading as Motor Arena until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr Y £1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr Y accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £1,000 from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr Y can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr Y should refer back to Mohammed Waseem Saleem and Mohammed Saleem trading as 
Motor Arena if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should contact HM 
Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman