The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2005. Mr F says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the PPI.
What happened
Mr F he was not told the policy was optional; if he had been told that, he says he wouldnt 
have bought it. He produced a copy of his cancellation letter to HSBC dated in 2007 which 
he said confirmed that he didnt want PPI and that he had not asked for it in 2005.
Our adjudicator rejected his complaint. Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked 
for the matter to be looked at again.
The complaint is also brought by The Insolvency Service, but I will refer only to Mr F in this 
decision as he bought the PPI in 2005. Mr F also asked many other questions in respect of 
the operation of payments to HSBC in his Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA"). If Mr F 
is unhappy with the result of his IVA, then he should raise his questions with the Insolvency 
Service as I have no remit to discuss those issues in this particular decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Ive decided Mr F's policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint him, so I'll explain why.
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI because, based on 
knowledge of HSBCs various sales processes at that time, I think it most likely that he was 
asked to sign separately for PPI and so he probably chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Neither party can say if the sale was advised or not so I will assume it was an advised sale 
as this carries a higher evidential burden for HSBC to prove. 
For advised sales, HSBC had to check that the PPI was suitable for him and, based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because he was 
eligible to buy PPI, the policy was affordable, and he wasnt affected by the things the policy 
did not cover. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
DRN-1837018Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But he most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
from taking out the cover.
I note Mr F said he was self-employed in 1995, but the policy terms were not onerous for 
self-employed individuals, so I will not be upholding the complaint for this reason.
Mr F said he could rely on his partners income. I do appreciate his point but there was no 
guarantee this would still be the case at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think 
this made the policy unsuitable for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what he said about not needing PPI 
because of his income. But as he was self-employed, I think he might still have had a need 
for the cover. So the level of his income in 2005 doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman