DRN-3190829
The complaint
Mrs W complains that her portfolio with Charles Stanley & Co Ltd underperformed because 
of neglect and non-compliance. She says the portfolio wasnt invested in line with her low to 
medium attitude to risk and that too much was held in cash.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party. For ease, I will refer to everything as 
if its been said by Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs W had a discretionary managed general portfolio and an ISA portfolio with Charles 
Stanley. She says the portfolios under-performed. She says too much was invested in 
equities which made the portfolio too high risk for her; that the investment was not diverse 
enough, with too much invested in UK equities; the portfolio was not actively managed; and 
that too much cash was held uninvested.
Charles Stanley said the under-performance was due to exceptional market circumstances. 
It said that the portfolio had a legacy UK weighting due to the level of income Mrs W 
required; that it had taken steps to reduce over-weight holdings, and to reduce the amount 
invested in UK equities, whilst being sensitive to capital gains; and that it wasnt wise to 
move out of cash whilst markets were volatile.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the portfolio investments overall were in line with a low-medium risk category and that the 
weighting in UK investments wasnt unusual. She thought Charles Stanley had acted fairly 
and provided the service in line with its agreement and Mrs Ws objectives.
Mrs W didnt agree. Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
A greater weighting of fixed interest investments should have been included to increase 
the income and reduce the overall risk.
UK equities are not medium risk investments. Mrs Ws portfolio had around 61% in UK 
and overseas equities and a further 15.6% in alternative investments. This equates to a 
high-risk portfolio. A more suitable split would have been 70% in fixed interest; 10% in 
property; and 20% in equities.
More than £38,000 was still held in cash in November 2020. This should have been 
invested when the markets started recovering after July 2020.
Mrs Ws portfolio was largely ignored by Charles Stanley. The advisor agreed the 
portfolio was too heavily weighted in equities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Both parties agree Mrs W had a medium-low attitude to risk. The questionnaire Mrs W 
completed in March 2018 shows that she was prepared to accept some investment risk in 
return for potentially higher returns. And she wanted the portfolio to provide a balance 
between capital growth and income.
Charles Stanley described a medium-low risk portfolio has having:
. a still significant investment in non-equity securities but greater exposure to 
the more volatile asset classes that can deliver higher returns.
Mrs Ws representative suggests only 20% should have been invested in equities. There 
isnt an industry standard for the composition of a high, medium, or low risk portfolio. But Im 
satisfied that Charles Stanley was managing the portfolio suitably, taking into account the 
history of the investments and other factors that it had to take into consideration in deciding 
whether and when to sell some of the equity content of the portfolio.
Its important to understand the history of the portfolio and to consider other factors which 
help to explain its make-up.
Mrs W opened an account with Charles Stanley in 2000. From 2000 until the discretionary 
portfolio application in March 2018, the account at various times was run on an execution 
only, an advisory, and a discretionary basis. And in October 2014, Mrs Ws risk was 
assessed as medium-high. When Mrs Ws husband passed away, his investments were 
transferred into her sole name (in January 2019). So the portfolio contained investments 
that, historically, may have been purchased without Charles Stanleys advice, investments 
that were suitable for a medium-high attitude to risk, and investments that had previously 
been held in the sole name of Mrs Ws husband, or in their joint names.
Charles Stanley told Mrs W that the portfolio was over-weight in equities. Its not provided us 
with all of its communication with Mrs W, but I can see that the over-weight position was 
discussed during a meeting in November 2019 when Charles Stanley recommended the 
equities ought to be trimmed. Mrs W said she accepted this but said she didnt want 
Charles Stanley to take any action until after the UK general election being held in 
December 2019, and after any impact on the market had been assessed.
In June 2020, following some sales, the UK equity weighting was taken down from around 
60% to around 45%, and this was reduced further to around 40% by the time the portfolio 
was closed in 2021.
In taking steps to reduce the equity content of the portfolio, Charles Stanley had to be 
mindful of the timing of its investment decisions during a volatile period of market activity. For example, it told us that it wasnt appropriate to sell one of Mrs Ws oil shares following a 
drop in price (when the longer-term outlook for the shares was still favourable). And, 
importantly, Mrs W had around £47,000 of embedded gains in the equity investments. So 
the tax implications of any sales had to be taken into account.
Overall, Im satisfied that the portfolio wasnt unsuitable for Mrs W taking into account the 
history of the portfolio and Charles Stanleys strategy to reduce the equity content. And Im 
satisfied that Charles Stanley communicated this strategy to Mrs W and that she understood 
and agreed with it.
Mrs W says too much cash was held in her portfolio and that this should have been invested 
when the markets started recovering from July 2020. But Im satisfied it wasnt unsuitable to 
hold more cash than usual during a period of market volatility and that Charles Stanley 
planned to invest this in line with the portfolios objectives when it considered the time was 
right.
Finally, Mrs W says her portfolio was largely ignored by Charles Stanley. From the 
information provided, I find Charles Stanley provided the service as set out in its terms and 
conditions. Mrs W received quarterly reports and regular reviews were carried out. I dont 
agree Charles Stanley ignored, or over-looked, her portfolio, or that it failed in its regulatory 
obligations to her.
I agree with the investigator that the performance of the portfolio was disappointing during 
2020, but I dont find this was because of something Charles Stanley did wrong  Im 
satisfied it managed Mrs Ws portfolio as agreed. And I can see the portfolio value recovered 
in early 2021 and would likely have continued to do so during 2021 if it hadnt been closed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman