DRN-3190826
The complaint
Mr W complained that Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan with Dot Dot Loans as follows:
Date Taken Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
11/04/2020 6 £500 £163.45
Mr W mainly said that Dot Dot Loans accepted him for this loan when he was already in debt 
and that it should never have been approved. He told us this loan plunged him into further 
debt as he took out other loans and borrowed money to pay this off.
Overall, our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr W provided, 
or the information Dot Dot Loans shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to do more to check what Mr W had told Dot Dot Loans about his financial 
situation. Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ws borrowing record with Dot Dot Loans wouldnt 
have given Dot Dot Loans any reason to think that he had money problems. And based on 
the information the lender saw in its own checks, the lending decision seemed fair. So our 
adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. The complaint came 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Dot Dot Loans provided Mr W with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. 
Dot Dot Loans was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. Thats not the same thing 
as saying that it needed to do a full financial review. There isnt any set list of checks a 
lender has to do  it depends on the particular circumstances. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  for the first loan 
and during the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of that lending becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Dot Dot Loans said it agreed to Mr Ws application after carrying out all the proper checks for 
the loan. It told us it relied on information Mr W provided about his monthly income (which it 
took steps to verify) and his expenditure. It also took into account statistical information 
based on what someone in Mr Ws particular situation was likely spend each month and if 
that suggested higher figures than Mr W had declared, Dot Dot Loans used the higher 
figures when assessing affordability rather than relying on what Mr W had said.
Dot Dot Loans said the information it recorded for Mr W showed that hed be able to 
comfortably make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to 
lend. 
It appears that Mr W had declared income of £2,600 and expenses of £450  which included 
spending £50 on his existing credit commitments. Although Mr W had said he lived with his 
parents in their home, after doing its own independent checks Dot Dot Loans didnt think the 
amount Mr W said he spent looked realistic. It used national statistical data to work out what 
normal expenditure would likely be for someone in Mr Ws circumstances. Dot Dot Loans 
also did its own credit checks to find out what Mr W was paying to service his existing debt 
and find out about his credit history. This resulted in Dot Dot Loans boosting his expenditure 
figure to allow for Mr W actually needing to spend £962.
Taking all this into account, it looked like Mr W should have disposable income of £1,638 
each month  so I think its fair to say the loan repayments appeared to be comfortably 
affordable for Mr W. 
As this was his first loan with Dot Dot Loans, Mr W didn't have any track record with the 
lender that shouldve alerted it to any underlying money problems. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect Dot Dot Loans to have been unduly concerned about at 
this stage. 
I dont think Dot Dot Loans had any reason to think that Mr Ws use of credit was out of 
control  the extent of his debt didnt appear excessive for someone in his circumstances, its 
checks showed no defaults on his credit record, no accounts subject to any payment plans 
and there were no indicators of insolvency, bankruptcy or any court judgements showing on 
his credit history.
Dot Dot Loans saw that Mr W had taken out an £800 short-term loan within the previous six 
months but this looked like it had been successfully repaid as its credit checks didnt flag up 
any other outstanding short term loans. 
I've taken into account everything Mr W has told me about his financial situation at the time. 
But its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a 
lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file. This means it would not be surprising if Mr W had additional 
credit that didnt necessarily show on Dot Dot Loans credit checks for this loan. But it 
wouldnt be a reason for me to uphold his complaint.
Looked at overall, I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr W provided or the 
other information Dot Dot Loans recorded, which meant that Dot Dot Loans shouldve taken 
further steps to check the information Mr W had declared. I dont think there wasnt anything 
in the information it had, to suggest Mr W wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. 
I think the information it had gathered supported the lending decision it made.
This leads me to conclude that the checks done were reasonable and proportionate in these 
circumstances and enough for Dot Dot Loans to agree to lend. And for these reasons, I plan 
to say that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly that Dot Dot Loans didn't do all the checks he thinks it 
shouldve done before agreeing to lend to him. And Im very sorry that Mr W has found 
repaying all his borrowing difficult. I accept that in reality Mr Ws financial situation possibly 
wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other information Dot Dot 
Loans gathered. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be able to say that the 
lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way  and I cant see that Dot Dot Loans did 
anything wrong when it provided this loan based on information it had at the time, which 
I think it was reasonably entitled to rely on. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mr W but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
If Mr W is still struggling with debt and would like help to manage his finances or to talk to 
someone about his situation theres more information about how to get free advice on our 
website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W told me that the figures stated arent accurate and that he may have overstated his 
income but he needed the money to pay debts. He said that Dot Dot Loans wouldve 
realised this if it had done proper checks and understood that the loan wasnt affordable. 
I have heard nothing further from Dot Dot Loans and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint. I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly about what 
happened and he holds a different view to me. I would like to assure Mr W that Ive taken 
carefully into account all the information I've been able to see and everything thats been 
said, including his comments in response to my provisional decision.  
Im very sorry that Mr W had a problem with debt and that his circumstances have been so 
difficult. But what Mr W has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint. I havent seen enough overall safely to be able to say that Dot Dot Loans should have realised this loan was not sustainably affordable for Mr W. So I cant fairly conclude 
that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it provided it.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman