DRN-1751889
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the decision by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim for storm 
damage on his home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr H held a home insurance policy with AXA. The policy terms explained the policy would 
cover storm damage. The policy also said it would not cover Any loss, damage or liability 
arising from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time. The policy also 
explained AXA would not pay for loss or damage arising from poor design, defective 
materials, or faulty workmanship. 
In April 2019 Mr H contacted AXA following damage caused to his property after a night of 
stormy weather. Mr Hs claim was for damage caused to the guttering above his front bay 
window, and the panel sheets on his greenhouse roof.  
AXA arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor found that the plastic 
guttering had come away in two sections, and the fixings on the gutter brackets they have 
rotted through and caused the gutter to come away from the roof. The surveyor also 
recorded that the sheets [on the greenhouse roof] are 3m in length and only four fixings 
attached to the roof and nothing to the rear at the top of the roof which is causing the sheets 
to raise in the bad weather This is down to a poor installation in the first instance as there 
are not enough fixings in the roofing sheets.
The surveyor found that the damage being claimed for had most likely resulted from gradual 
process loss. Because of this, the surveyor found that no cover will apply for the loss within 
the terms of the policy. 
Mr H was unhappy with this decision, and so brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found that AXA had acted fairly in declining Mr Hs claim, as 
the evidence didnt indicate that the damage claimed was caused by the storm. Mr H 
disagreed with these findings, saying that his original claim was done in a panic I would 
be prepared to accept a proportion of my claim. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its 
been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think AXA need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr H but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.Theres no dispute that there was stormy conditions the night damage Mr H has referred to 
when making a claim. The damage claimed for is also typical of what we might see happen 
in stormy weather conditions. But, in order for AXA to accept Mr Hs claim, the main cause of 
the damage to the property would need to have been the storm itself, rather than any other 
issues with the property. Ive considered Mr Hs comments, the surveyors report, and the 
terms and conditions when determining whether AXAs decision on Mr Hs claim was fair. 
Damage to guttering 
Mr H says that the damage caused to his guttering resulted from the stormy weather. 
Following inspection, the surveyor found that the plastic guttering had come away, and there 
was evidence of rust. When discussing his claim with this service Mr H also agreed that 
there was an element of rust, but it must be debatable. Mr H says The rusted fittings on the 
gutter brackets are inevitable at a seaside property. The Assessor failed to report that one of 
the fixing had in fact broken.
Its not disputed that at the time of inspection, two of the guttering parts had come away. Mr 
H had put these aside for the surveyor to inspect. Mr H feels strongly that this guttering 
coming away was caused by the storm, and so AXA should pay for the cost of these repairs 
in line with his policy. But I dont think the evidence supports this. 
Its fair to say that the condition of the fixtures meant that there was a greater chance of 
them coming away with stormy conditions. But I dont think it was the stormy conditions itself 
that caused the guttering to come away. On balance I agree with the surveyors comments 
that its likely this happened because of wear and tear of the guttering over time. The 
surveyor also noted gaffe tape stuck to the guttering indicating that it wasnt in as good a 
condition as it couldve been at the time of the stormy weather. Overall I think AXAs decision 
not to pay for these repairs was fair. 
Damage to greenhouse sheets
Mr H says that there was damage caused to two of the six panels across the roof of his 
greenhouse. He says two of the panels lifted off their fixings. 
The surveyor noted On a closer inspection using a camera pole it has been noted that the 
sheets are 3m in length and only four fixings attached to the roof and nothing to the rear at 
the top of the roof which is causing the sheets to raise in the bad weather. During the 
inspection, the roofing sheets were lifted to show that theyd come away from the main 
structure. Mr H told the surveyor that there was timber running along the top of the roof, but 
this had been replaced by flash band at some point. 
Mr H told this service that weve now re-done the greenhouse, when we were up there, 
there were definitely screws, they werent visible on the pictures, and theyre still there now 
but being held down in a more professional and firmer way. The surveyor found that the four 
fixtures attached to the roof probably werent enough to hold the sheets in place, given their 
size. The inspection was carried out using a camera designed to provide close inspection of 
the structure and design of the area damage was being claimed for. This only revealed four 
fixings. Although Mr H found evidence that there were more screws when doing work to the 
greenhouse later, I dont think it would be fair to say that the surveyors opinion was unfair or 
wrong. I think the actions taken to investigate the issue were fair.
Ive also considered Mr Hs comments about the timber that used to be in place along the 
top of the roof. I dont doubt that Mr H had maintained the greenhouse to his best ability. But 
when considering the cause of the damage, I dont think there is enough evidence to support 
that the main cause of the panels coming away was the storm. I think there is enough evidence to support AXAs position that the sheets had given way from the main structure 
because of the wear and tear in the type of material used to hold them together, as opposed 
to being caused by the storm itself. 
I am empathetic to Mr Hs circumstances. He has explained that he has only made one claim 
in his many years of having insurance in place. Mr H says he did everything he could by 
fixing those two panels down properly to limit any further damage. I dont doubt that on 
realising that the sheeting had come away, Mr H took steps to try and prevent any further 
damage in case the weather took another turn for the worst. 
But when a claim is assessed, the surveyor is looking at the condition of the property as 
close as possible to the time the incident took place. Based on the evidence I think that on 
balance AXAs decision not to pay the claim was fair, as there wasnt enough evidence to 
say that the main cause of the roof sheets lifting was the stormy weather. Because of this, I 
wont be asking AXA to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman