DRN-4101219
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his business bank accounts, 
withdrew his overdraft facility and issued a demand for repayment of his Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL).
What happened
Mr H, a sole trader, operated two businesses, which Ill refer to as D and G.
In May 2020, Mr H successfully applied to Barclays for two BBLs  one for £50,000 for D 
and the other for £45,000 for G. The funds were paid into Ds and Gs business bank 
accounts respectively.
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In June 2022, Barclays sent letters giving notice that the business bank accounts would be 
closed, and that the overdraft facility on Ds account would be removed. Gs account was 
closed in August 2022, though the bank was unable to close Ds account as it had an 
overdrawn balance. In November 2022, Barclays issued a termination notice for the 
overdraft confirming the full overdrawn balance was payable.
In July and August 2022, Mr H successfully applied for repayment holidays for the G and D 
BBLs, to run until February 2023. The bank issued a formal demand for repayment of the D 
BBL in November 2022, but then recalled the demand. Later, in April 2023, Barclays issued 
another formal demand for repayment of the D BBL, because of missed loan repayments.
Mr H says he is now in debt which he cant repay, and his businesses have had to stop 
trading.
Our investigator looked at the available evidence and concluded that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. In summary, she gave these reasons:
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer  just as a customer may 
close their account with a bank  but it must do so in a way which complies with the 
terms and conditions. Barclays gave Mr H two months notice for both Ds and Gs 
bank accounts, which was in line with the account terms and conditions.
The banks letter of June 2022 stated that the account and all facilities would be 
closed in August 2022. Barclays therefore made Mr H reasonably aware that both the 
account and overdraft would be terminated. Moreover, the terms and conditions of 
the overdraft say it was payable on demand. This means the bank was entitled to 
withdraw the overdraft and request repayment of the facility in full at its discretion.
Mr H would like the bank to provide him with more information about the reasons for 
its closure decision. But Barclays isnt required to share any further details than it 
already has.
On reviewing Ds account statement, the investigator noted that when the bank 
issued notice of the closure, the account held a credit balance. The account became 
overdrawn only at the end of the month, after Mr H made two large transactions to 
his personal accounts with Barclays. Given that Mr H was already aware that the 
overdraft would be withdrawn, the investigator thought he could have decided not to 
use the facility at this time
Barclays notes show that when Mr H contacted the bank in July 2022, he said the 
businesses had stopped trading, so he wouldnt be in a position to repay the balance 
of the overdraft.
In the circumstances, the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank to 
issue a formal demand in November 2022 for the repayment of the outstanding 
overdrawn balance of the D bank account. 
Barclays issued a formal demand for repayment of the D BBL in April 2023 because 
of missed loan repayments The investigator said that in her view, if the ongoing 
repayments arent met, then it would be reasonable for the bank to issue a formal 
demand for the BBLs under the terms of the agreements. The earlier BBL demand, in 
November, was issued on the grounds that the business account was overdrawn, 
and the bank was entitled to do that under the terms of the BBL agreement. But in 
any event, the November demand was later withdrawn.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He made the following points, in 
summary:
The notice to close his accounts, and not knowing exactly what was going on, 
contributed to his poor health and the loss of his businesses, which meant he 
couldnt pay his debts.
The BBL terms and conditions required that the loans be paid from a business 
account. But Barclays had closed his business accounts, so even if hed had the 
funds, he couldnt repay the BBLs.
Barclays wouldnt give any information on the reasons for closure of the bank 
accounts and wouldnt discuss the matter with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
I have little to add to the investigators comments. Barclays was entitled to close Mr Hs 
business bank accounts and gave him two months notice in line with the account terms. I 
appreciate that Mr H would like to know why the bank chose to do this, but banks arent 
obliged to give customers reasons for closing their accounts. So I cant reasonably require 
the bank to explain its reasons to Mr H.Barclays was entitled to withdraw the overdraft facility at any time, but it gave Mr H two 
months notice. The overdraft wasnt cleared, so I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
bank to issue a formal demand for repayment three months later.
The bank was also entitled to issue a formal demand for repayment of the D BBL in 
November 2022, because of the outstanding debt on Ds bank account. That demand was 
then withdrawn and the BBL repayment holiday ran its course. The formal repayment 
demand issued in April 2023, following missed BBL repayments, was also issued in line with 
terms and conditions of the BBL, so I dont think the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The BBL seems to have fallen into arrears because Mr Hs businesses were no longer 
trading and Mr H was in debt. As the investigator pointed out, there were also other grounds 
on which Barclays could have issued a formal notice for repayment. I dont think there was 
any prospect that the D BBL would return to normal regular repayments. So I dont think the 
bank did anything wrong here.
I realise that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. Throughout these events he has 
suffered business and personal difficulties. But in my view, for the reasons given above, the 
bank didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it closed the D and G bank accounts, withdrew 
the overdraft facility and issued the final demands for the overdraft balance and the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman