DRN-2600426
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society told him that he had a transferable 
mortgage and there would be no penalties, but he then had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when he redeemed his mortgage. Mr M would like the ERC refunded.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Nationwide. Mr M also had a mortgage product with a fixed rate 
of interest, fixed at 2.09% pa until 30 April 2021. An ERC was payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed before that date, but this could be avoided if the mortgage product was 
transferred to a mortgage on another property that Nr M was buying subject to Nationwides 
lending criteria.
In early 2020 Mr M looked about increasing his mortgage or buying a new house and 
decided to buy a new house. Mr M applied online, got a mortgage offer in May 2020 with a 
mortgage product with an interest rate of 2.04% pa, completed his purchase and redeemed 
his mortgage in August 2020. As Mr M had redeemed his mortgage but hadnt transferred 
his mortgage product Nationwide charged Mr M an ERC of £1199.91. Nationwide said that 
on its website it told Mr M that he should have applied in branch or on the phone to port his 
mortgage and he would have signed a disclaimer before he applied online alerting him to the 
fact that he couldnt port online.
Our investigator listened to a number of calls that Mr M had with Nationwide but didnt think 
that Nationwide had misled Mr M. So, he didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out a mortgage product in 2019 that gave him a discounted rate for a period. If he 
redeemed that mortgage within the period, Mr M would have to pay an ERC, but the 
mortgage product was portable  Mr M could have applied to port it to another mortgage on 
a property he was buying. This is set out in Mr Ms product switch offer of April 2019 which 
has a section headed porting which says, you have a right to transfer this product to a new 
mortgage with Nationwide on another property.  The problem here is that Mr M didnt apply 
to transfer the product but instead applied for a new mortgage product at 2.04% so his 
mortgage product wasnt transferred.
Mr M believed that he was porting his mortgage product. The idea of the ERC is that if a 
mortgage product is cashed in early that it gives Nationwide some recompense for the 
borrower failing to complete the fixed term. So, if a borrower ports his mortgage product to 
another mortgage, the mortgage product isnt cashed in early and so no ERC is payable. But 
in this case Mr M rather than transfer the product took out another product with his new 
mortgage. 
I appreciate that this isnt straightforward. So, I assume that is why if Mr M wanted to port, 
Nationwide required him to make his new application by phone rather than online. So, it 
inserted a warning on the online application which is underlined and says:
You can only apply online so long as:
Youre not planning to port or transfer your existing Nationwide mortgage deal to the new 
property. This may mean youll have to pay an early repayment charge 
That seems to me a clear enough warning that an ERC may be payable if Mr M made an 
application for a new mortgage online. Despite that warning Mr M continued with the 
application. Mr M says he has some reading difficulties and Im sorry to hear that. 
Nationwide was unaware of that. I would have thought that if Mr M had difficulties with 
reading the online application that it would have been reasonable for him to have made the 
application by phone and had he done so, its likely his subsequent problems could have 
been averted but Mr M chose not to. 
Mr M also previously had a number of phone conversations with Nationwide advisers. Like 
our investigator I listened to the calls where the option to port is mentioned but I didnt detect 
that Mr M was given any misleading information in those calls. Those calls merely repeat 
what was said in the product offer of 2019 that the product was portable. The actual 
mechanics of porting required a further discussion when the application was made 
Mr M says that he felt that completing the application by phone would have delayed his 
application and that the process is set up to manipulate customers to go online. I appreciate 
doing the application online is easier. But I expect part of the reasons requiring the 
application by phone is to assist in explaining the porting process and that may have taken 
some more time than online. But despite the clear warning that Mr M couldnt port online, he 
went ahead with making the application for the new mortgage without applying to port his 
existing product and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman