DRN-3011429
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service and workmanship provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
and its agents under his Home Emergency cover. Any reference to actions by UKI includes 
those of its agents.
What happened
Mr K had home emergency cover as standard with his home insurance policy. He contacted 
UKI when he found water pouring from the loft and through the ceiling to both floors of his 
home. It arranged to send an emergency plumber, followed by a boiler engineer and then an 
electrician when Mr K reported further problems.
The plumber attended first and reported that the water expansion tank was overflowing. The 
plumber reported that the ball valve had been tampered with during a service by another 
company, which Ill call company B. Concerned that the tank would split, the plumber 
recommended that company B should carry out the repair. Mr K arranged the repair under 
his cover with company B, which replaced the ball valve and cleared a blockage.
UKIs boiler engineer was unable to work on the boiler because the electrics had not been 
made safe. After attending, the electrician reported that the electrics were back on, except 
for the upstairs lights which were still too wet. The boiler engineer didnt attend again. UKI 
arranged a follow-up visit by the electrician, four days after Mr Ks original report of the leak, 
but it didnt go ahead because Mr K confirmed his claim was being dealt with under his 
Buildings and Contents policy.
Mr K complained to UKI about its engineers workmanship and the quality of service 
provided. UKI accepted that it had made mistakes and offered £200 by way of apology. Mr K 
didnt think its offer was enough because he thought UKI had contributed to the significant 
water damage in his home.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She also agreed thered been mistakes 
handling his claim, but she didnt think UKI had contributed to Mr Ks loss. Our investigator 
thought UKIs offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the engineers UKI first sent shouldve been qualified to do the 
work and shouldve completed the repairs without the need for him to engage company B 
again. As a result, Mr K said the cost of his contract with company B has increased. Further, 
Mr K said that leaving the electrics on in a wet house couldve resulted in serious injury. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise hell be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, I need to be clear that my decision here is only about Mr Ks complaint regarding the 
home emergency cover under his policy. I wont be addressing anything that was carried out 
under the buildings and contents cover because that matter is being looked at separately. 
The overriding issue is that Mr K thinks UKI provided a poor level of service and 
workmanship when it attended to an escape of water from his water tank.
Ive looked at Mr Ks home emergency policy which covers:
2 Plumbing and drainage
We will pay the cost of emergency assistance that is necessary as a result of an 
emergency to:
a) internal plumbing and drainage;
But not
e) The cost of replacement of pumps, water tanks, radiators, cylinders, water softeners, 
waste disposal units, macerators or any central heating component.
Its clear the emergency wouldve been covered under the policy, so Ive looked at how UKI 
handled the claim. 
Its plumber reported that water was still coming through the ceiling from the loft despite the 
water being turned off. The plumber identified a fault with the ball valve causing the tank to 
overflow, and he reported that the water tank was under stress. As company B had worked 
on the valve and water tank some time before, UKI recommended that Mr K arrange for it to 
return to fix the problem. This suggests that UKI believed faulty workmanship was the cause. 
Under the general exclusions, Mr Ks policy states:
This policy does not cover claims caused by the following:
9 Uninsurable risks
h) Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
So, on the face of it, it seems reasonable that UKI felt company B was responsible for the 
repair. However, I note that the reason for the leak was found to be a blocked overflow and 
that there was no evidence of faulty workmanship. I can see how UKIs mistake here 
wouldve inconvenienced Mr K because he had to arrange for the work to be completed by 
company B.
Mr K complained that UKI mustnt have sent qualified engineers, which he believes he was 
entitled to under the policy. UKIs plumber said that he could not replace the tank because it 
showed signs of breaking under the stress and he didnt unblock the overflow. I can see why 
Mr K would think UKI hadnt sent adequately trained contractors. However, I note there was 
some disagreement about whether the tank needed replacing but UKIs responsibility was 
only to identify and stop the leak. 
That brings me to UKIs own investigation of how it dealt with Mr Ks claim overall. It agreed 
the following points of Mr Ks complaint:
UKIs plumber couldve replaced the ball valve and unblocked the overflow.
The plumber couldve drained the tanks.
UKI incorrectly declined Mr Ks claim under the faulty workmanship exclusion.It failed to tell Mr K he wasn't covered for a replacement water tank.
The electrics were turned back on when there was still significant moisture.
In summary, UKI hasnt disputed that it didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve done or 
that there were problems with its standard of workmanship. However, UKI doesnt think it 
caused Mr K any additional loss. Im aware that the leak itself had already damaged Mr Ks 
home to the point that it wasnt habitable. So, while there were clear shortfalls in UKIs 
handling of his claim, I havent seen any evidence to show it caused any additional material 
loss. UKI offered £200 by way of apology for its mistakes handling his claim. I havent seen 
anything which UKI needs to put right, so I consider this offer fair in the circumstances in 
recognition of the inconvenience and frustration its actions caused.
Now, Ill address Mr Ks specific concerns. I know he was worried about the electrics being 
turned back on despite his home still being wet. I can understand his concern but, thankfully, 
theres no evidence that any injury was caused. UKI has already offered a payment by way 
of apology for its shortfalls and Im satisfied that addresses Mr Ks worry. But I cant fairly ask 
UKI to make a payment for what mightve happened.
Mr K says UKI didnt arrange any further appointments under his home emergency policy 
because it referred the claim to his buildings and contents insurer. I believe this point is 
important to Mr K because it has a direct connection with another claim he made. Looking at 
the evidence only in relation to his home emergency cover, I havent seen anything which 
tells me UKI referred his claim. The records show that UKI was made aware the claim was 
being dealt with under other cover, so it was no longer required to send engineers. 
Specifically, when offering to arrange an appointment for the electrician, UKI recorded that 
Mr K told it the matter was being dealt with under his buildings and contents cover. I havent 
seen anything to suggest UKI proactively referred the claim and the evidence suggests that 
Mr K himself made the claim under his buildings and contents policy.
Finally, Mr K says the cost of his policy with company B has increased because of the repeat 
callouts. Our investigator invited him to provide evidence for consideration, but I havent 
seen anything further from him about this issue. In the absence of any evidence, I see no 
reason to require UKI to pay any more than it has already offered. 
Overall, its clear that UKI didnt handle Mr Ks claim under his home emergency policy as 
well as it couldve done. However, it has recognised its shortfalls and paid £200 by way of 
apology. In the absence of any evidence to show that Mr K suffered additional loss to that 
already caused by the leak itself, I see no reason to require UKI to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman