DRN-2443628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (when it was trading as Britannia) 
mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
The Co-operative Bank merged with Britannia and it is dealing with this complaint. So, to 
keep things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Co-op Bank as the seller in my decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out PPI alongside a mortgage in 1996. The policy provided them both 
with cover for unemployment. 
In 2000 Mr and Mrs D took out a further advance and additional PPI to protect their new 
monthly repayments if Mr D found himself unexpectedly unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the PPI they 
were sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed. Their main complaint is that they didnt ask for their 
mortgage payments to be protected by insurance. And they say PPI isnt something they 
needed or wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
what happened in 1996 
I dont know what the advisor told Mr and Mrs D about PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr and Mrs D to remember exactly what was discussed when they took out the policy 
as this was so long ago. This means that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely.
Ive seen the mortgage application Mr and Mrs D completed in 1996. This shows that PPI 
was offered to Mr and Mrs D when they were applying for their mortgage. 
There was an option to say that they didnt want to receive a quotation for PPI  which is 
ticked on the form Mr and Mrs D signed. So I think that Mr and Mrs D were aware that PPI 
was available as an optional extra and it was their choice if they wanted it with their 
mortgage. 
A separate PPI application had to be filled in if they wanted to take out PPI. And although 
neither Co-op Bank nor Mr and Mrs D can say how the PPI was sold to them, it looks like 
they probably did complete paperwork to have PPI when they set up their mortgage.
I say this because they chose to take out unemployment cover only and to share the policy 
benefits. So it looks like they tailored the cover to meet their specific requirements at the 
time. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ds home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than they had otherwise. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
And given that PPI was offered at no cost for 12 months and it provided valuable protection 
for Mr and Mrs D in their financial situation I think on balance its unlikely that they wouldve 
declined the policy altogether.
I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs D have forgotten these details after so long. But, 
based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D decided they did want 
PPI and that they chose to have it, knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted the 
cover.
Co-op Bank says it didnt recommend the cover. It told us that its sales process at the time 
didnt include giving customers personal advice about taking out PPI. But it still had to make 
sure that they had enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was 
right for them. And if that didnt happen, I must decide if this makes any difference overall.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and Mrs D became 
unexpectedly unemployed. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been 
a difficult time. 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money they mightve got, giving 
Mr and Mrs D some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Its not clear to me how much Mr and Mrs D mightve had in savings at the time. Theyve told 
me different things about this. I've seen no details of any savings and it looks like they were 
re-mortgaging to lower their monthly repayments. So this makes me think they may not have 
had as much spare cash as Mr D originally thought likely. 
And if they did have savings at the time they took out this mortgage, this still doesnt affect 
my overall view of their complaint. I dont know if Mr and Mrs D wouldve always had savings 
they couldve relied on if theyd needed to make a claim. And, although Mr and Mrs D said 
they were earning good money, no job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. PPI 
protected them in the event that something unexpected happened and one (or both of them) 
became unexpectedly unemployed.  
So I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve wanted the security that having PPI gave them and 
I cant fairly say they couldnt have benefitted from having it.Its possible some of the information Co-op Bank gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if either Mr D or Mrs D was affected by 
any policy conditions that mightve made it difficult for them to benefit under the 
unemployment part of the cover. So, I dont think more information about policy exclusions 
and limitations wouldve made any difference to their decision to take out this cover. 
Its possible that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have been aware how much they would pay for the 
policy. But Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for them. Mr and Mrs D couldve 
cancelled the PPI if they hadnt wanted to start paying to keep it running at the end of the 
free period. And they wouldve had to make the necessary arrangements at their bank to pay 
the monthly premium for the PPI. So it looks like they were happy to pay to have this cover 
at the time. 
All this makes me think that even if there were failings in the way Co-op Bank sold this cover 
to Mr and Mrs D, its unlikely that better information wouldve put them off buying it when 
they took out their mortgage in 1996. 
what happened in 2000 when Mr and Mrs D took out a further advance  
PPI wasnt extended automatically to cover extra borrowing on the mortgage account. A 
separate PPI application had to be filled in if Mr and Mrs D wanted to take out more PPI. 
Ive seen the loan application Mr and Mrs D both signed. Theyve indicated that they wanted 
PPI by ticking a box and signing the PPI part of the form. 
I think its reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs D wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure it reflected their wishes. And I think its 
fair to say that by signing the completed application they were indicating they agreed with 
the information on the form. 
I've also seen the PPI application that Mr and Mrs D completed in 2000. They indicated that 
they wanted to take out unemployment cover and filled in details of the amount of monthly 
benefit required to protect Mr and Mrs Ds new mortgage monthly repayment. They set the 
policy up in Mr Ds name alone and chose the deferred period they wanted to have. 
Mr and Mrs D signed the completed form to get the policy. 
Mr and Mrs D had the option to decline PPI on their mortgage application. They also signed 
other paperwork which showed that the consequences of not having PPI had been 
explained. So I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs D understood at the time that PPI wasnt 
required with their further advance. And based on all the information I've seen, I think it was 
added to their account when they chose to take out unemployment cover for Mr D  even if 
theyve now forgotten this. 
The new policy protected Mr and Mrs Ds monthly repayments for up to 12 months if Mr D 
lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
Mr D continued to be able to take advantage of the unemployment benefits the policy 
offered. And theres nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem for Mr and Mrs D 
when they set up the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
Co-op Bank wrote to Mr D confirming details of the PPI that had been arranged and giving 
advance notice of what the monthly cost would be and contact information if there was 
anything that Mr D wanted to discuss. If these arrangements hadnt been what Mr D wanted, 
I think its likely he wouldve taken this up with Co-op Bank at the time. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that he did that.Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Co-op 
Bank sold them PPI in 2000, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr and Mrs D 
off having it given the useful protection it offered them. I think its likely that they wouldve still 
bought the policy. So I dont find they are worse off as a result of anything that Co-op Bank 
did wrong. And theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman