DRN-4095588
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs U complain that Mr H was given some wrong information about their mortgage 
on a call with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. They say that this wrong information 
led to their home being repossessed, and they want Halifax to give it back.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr H and Mrs U, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have mainly been with Mr H. So Ill mostly refer to him in this decision.
Mr H and Mrs U have a mortgage with Halifax on their former home in the UK. Over ten
years ago, they moved overseas. Mr H appears to accept that he didnt update his contact
details with Halifax. The address it held for him and for Mrs U remained that of their property.
Mr H said he called Halifax in 2022 after he realised a couple of payments to his mortgage
had been missed. He said he and Mrs U were intending to sell the house at this time. Mr H
said Halifax told him he didnt need to pay the arrears, or to make any more payments going
forward, because everything he owed could just be collected at the time of sale. But Mr H
said that in mid-October, the house was repossessed, without his knowledge. He only found
out when a neighbour told him. Mr H said he didnt receive any letters about this, and he was
confident that any correspondence received would have been forwarded to him. Mr H said
hed complained to Halifax, and it sent him a cheque for £100, but he said that couldnt
possibly make up for the loss of his family home.
Halifax said it accepted that it had given Mr H wrong information when he spoke to it in July
2022. He shouldnt have been told that he didnt really need to clear the arrears, or that
Halifax wasnt chasing for this money at the time. Instead, Mr H should have been passed
through to a different team, to discuss repaying the arrears.
But Halifax said it had never told Mr H that he didnt need to make his contractual monthly
payment in future. That just wasnt discussed on this call. Mr H may have misunderstood.
Halifax told us that a possession order had been granted on the property in 2014, although
enforcement action was cancelled then, when Mr H paid the arrears. Halifax also told us that
in 2020 it reviewed the account again, but took no action over the arrears on the account at
the time, because of special arrangements put in place during the pandemic.
However, in 2022, Halifax started to review the account again, because no payment had
been received since December 2021, and by March 2022, the account was once more in
arrears. Halifax said it had been writing to Mr H and to Mrs U, separately, since March 2022,
firstly about the arrears on their mortgage account, and then with warnings about possession
proceedings, then finally with notice of an upcoming eviction.
Halifax said it was Mr H and Mrs Us responsibility to update their contact information, and
they hadnt done that. It has shown us that as well as writing to them both at the address it
held for them, it also rang the UK number it holds, and visited the house, prior to 
repossession.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said theres no dispute that
Mr H was given incorrect information, but Halifax then wrote to them, and corrected this
information. She said the reason the house was repossessed was because Halifax couldnt
contact Mr H or Mrs U. And she thought that happened because Mr H and Mrs U hadnt kept
their contact information with Halifax up to date.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had been unreasonable. She knew that Mr H and Mrs U
no longer wanted to sell the house, they wanted to pay the arrears and take the house back,
but she said Halifax didnt have to give the house back to Mr H and Mrs U now. It wasnt
unreasonable for Halifax, having obtained a court order for possession of the property, and
having enforced this order, to go ahead with a sale.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Halifax could have emailed him, or spoken to his estate agent.
And he thought Halifax had his overseas number. Mr H still thought Halifaxs wrong
information caused the loss of his house.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said it was Mr Hs responsibility to make sure
Halifax had an up to date address, or that he had robust arrangements in place for mail
forwarding. And if Mr H had kept his address up to date with Halifax, then the incorrect
advice he received on the July call would only have caused him some distress or
inconvenience  because it would have been corrected by correspondence Halifax issued
only a few days later. Thats why she thought the mistaken advice on the July wasnt actually
what caused the repossession.
Our investigator said that Halifax used the contact information it had. Many lenders wont
send this sort of letter by email, for security reasons, and we wouldnt say they have to. And
we wouldnt expect Halifax to discuss Mr Hs finances with his estate agent. Our investigator
thought reasonable attempts to contact Mr H had been made.
Mr H still thought the house would not have been repossessed if Halifax hadnt given him
incorrect information. He said if hed been given correct information, he would have
continued to pay his mortgage, and hed shown us he had enough money to do that.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, our service didnt have a copy of the call that Mr H had with
Halifax. We have now obtained this, and Ive listened to it a number of times.
On 1 July 2022, when Mr H spoke to Halifax, his mortgage was in arrears by a little over
£1,000. A lump sum payment had been made in December 2021, and this meant Mr H 
and Mrs U had overpaid by a small amount. But this overpayment was quickly used up, 
and no further payments had been made.
Our investigator appears to have accepted that Mr H was told, on the call on 1 July 
2022, both that he didnt need to repay the arrears, and that he didnt need to make any 
payments going forward, because he and Mrs U were selling the property and the funds 
would be collected upon sale. But Halifax has never accepted that it told Mr H that he 
didnt need to continue to make his contractual monthly payment. It said, although there may have been some confusion, the call dealt only with the arrears on the account, and 
Mr H was never told he didnt need to make his monthly payments going forward.
Having listened to this call, it appears to me as if the agent was under the impression 
that a house sale was imminent  Mr H described this as Im in the process of getting 
my house sold. I can hear that Mr H was told it didnt really matter if he paid off the 
arrears right away, or not. But we know that was wrong, and that Halifax did want him to 
pay this money. It had already sent a number of letters to him, and to Mrs U, asking for 
the arrears to be repaid. Halifaxs agent made a mistake about this.
Mr H has always maintained that he was also told he didnt need to make his monthly
payments in future. But, having listened repeatedly to this brief call, I cannot hear that
Halifaxs agent said this. And Mr H didnt say he wouldnt be restarting his monthly
payments. Rather, he said that he might just make half the payments of the outstanding
amount  so might not pay all of the arrears off now.
Mr H and Mrs U didnt then make any payment towards the arrears. And they didnt 
restart their monthly payments either. No further payments were made to this mortgage.
Halifax has explained that it had already taken some steps towards repossessing Mr H 
and Mrs Us property in 2014. Although these were suspended at a late stage when the 
arrears were cleared, the underlying order was still in place. In September 2022, Halifax 
asked a court to grant it possession of the property, and the court agreed.
I can see that Halifax reviewed its position a number of times, before going ahead with 
the repossession of the property. On 5 October 2022, its internal notes say My decision 
is for the eviction to proceed  rationale is that we have exhausted all forbearance 
options  arrears are increasing as no payment since Dec 2021. This decision was 
reviewed again on 18 October 2022, and again Halifax referred to the fact that there had 
been no payments from Mr H or Mrs U. So Halifax then went ahead with taking 
possession of the property.
I think that these were reasonable steps for Halifax to take, in the circumstances of no
payments or further contact from Mr H or Mrs U.
I understand Mr H considers that this all went wrong because of incorrect advice he was
given on the phone on 1 July. But I dont think thats right.
I think its important to note that, after that call, Halifax continued its attempts to contact 
Mr H, and ask him to pay.
Mr H says he was never asked for up to date contact details by Halifax, and it should 
have asked for these details  he said it knew he was overseas. But it does remain Mr H 
and Mrs Us responsibility to make sure they keep their contact details with Halifax up to 
date. And, having listened to the 1 July call, Im satisfied that Mr H told the agent he was 
overseas, but not that he wasnt just there on holiday  he was living overseas 
permanently. So I dont think that the agent should have been prompted, on that call, to 
ask for new contact details.
But I do think that if Mr H had provided up to date contact details to Halifax after he and 
Mrs U left the UK, even as late as the July call, then he and Mrs U would have been 
warned about the upcoming proceedings. I think that one of the reasons that this 
property was repossessed was because Mr H didnt do that.And I also think its important that when Halifax finally decided to go ahead and 
repossess this property, it did so not only on the basis of no contact, but also of no 
payments to the mortgage, and increasing arrears.
I understand that its Mr Hs position that he was told he didnt need to make any more
payments on the call. But Ive listened to the call repeatedly, and I dont think he was 
advised that he could simply stop all his payments. He was only advised that any 
arrears could be wrapped up in the amount payable on redemption. If Mr H has 
understood something different, then I dont think thats Halifaxs fault.
So it seems likely that if Mr H had recommenced his payments in July, then the
repossession action wouldnt have gone ahead. I think another reason why the property 
was repossessed, was because Mr H didnt restart his payments, even after this call, 
when he was clearly aware that payments werent being made.
I understand that Mr H and Mrs U no longer wish to sell their house, and they didnt 
want Halifax to sell it for them. They said theyd offered to clear the arrears and take it 
back. But Halifax knew that they werent living in the property, and werent planning to 
do so. So it said that it wouldnt give the house back if Mr H and Mrs U paid off the 
arrears. I dont think that is an unreasonable response for Halifax to have made, taking 
account of all the circumstances of this case.
I know that Mr H and Mrs U will be disappointed, but I agree with our investigator that, if 
Mr H and Mrs Us contact details had been up to date, the incorrect advice given by 
Halifax would have been of minimal impact. I also think that if Mr H had restarted his 
payments after the July call, then its unlikely the house would have been repossessed. 
For those reasons, I dont think Halifax has to do more than pay the £100 that its 
already sent to Mr H and Mrs U. I know that they will be very disappointed by this 
decision, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it agreed with my provisional decision and it had nothing further to add.
Mrs U replied, on behalf of herself and Mr H, to disagree. She said that after listening to the 
audio, she felt that about three minutes into the call Halifaxs agent said they didnt need to 
rush payments, Halifax wasnt chasing them for it, and the payment of arrears could go 
through with the sale of the house. Mrs U said this was all the evidence they needed, to 
show the fault was on Halifaxs side, regardless of whether their address had been updated.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr H and Mrs U that I dont agree. 
My decision rested on two points  the first was that the call they had with Halifax didnt 
suggest that they wouldnt need to make their contractual monthly payments. It dealt only 
with the arrears. 
Ive listened again to this call, and I still think that. The response Mrs U draws to my attention 
was to a question about whether the stated amount of arrears needed to be paid  which 
was then around £1,000. I also think that any comments made would need to be set in the overall context of the call, which was only about arrears. So I still dont think Mr H and Mrs U 
were misled about not needing to restart their contractual monthly payments. 
I said in my decision that not restarting the monthly payments was something that Halifax 
took into account when it decided to repossess their home. It didnt just go ahead with a 
repossession because Mr H and Mrs U were in arrears, it took this step because these 
arrears were continuing to rise, several months after the disputed call. They had almost 
doubled by the time Halifax acted to repossess the property.
I also noted that Mr H and Mrs U hadnt kept their contact details with Halifax up to date. And 
I said in my provisional decision that it is their responsibility to do so. Its important for Halifax 
to be able to get in touch with them about their mortgage. 
So, even if I had been able to agree with Mrs U about the content of the call, I would still 
have said that the reason any error wasnt corrected was because they hadnt updated their 
address. I dont think, as Mrs U has suggested, I can simply set this aside.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman