DRN-2864272
The complaint
Mr C complains TFS Loans Limited didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
when accepting him for a loan.
What happened
Mr C was accepted for a guarantor loan with TFS in May 2015. The loan was for £6,000 over 
a term of 36 months with a monthly repayment of £280.62 and a total repayable figure of 
£10,102.32.
In November 2019 Mr C complained to TFS. He said the loan was unaffordable and had 
TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the outset, it would have known this. 
TFS investigated Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary it said its checks had 
shown the loan to be affordable to Mr C, and he adequately explained the concerns it 
discussed with him about his credit file.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. He said TFS hadnt completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks based on the information it had obtained as part of its 
affordability assessment. He said had TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
it would have seen Mr C was gambling and concluded it would have been irresponsible to 
have lent to him.
Mr C accepted our investigators findings. TFS disagreed. In summary it maintained its 
position that it responsibly lent to Mr C as the loan was affordable based on the 
proportionate checks it said were completed at the time. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. Bearing in mind
the complaint before me, I think there are a number of overarching questions I need to
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Cs complaint. These are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself he was 
in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr C would have been able to do so?
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself he was in a 
position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr Cs ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
It isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider the 
information it obtains from these checks before making a fair lending decision.
TFS has provided us with its response file which includes the credit file search it obtained at 
the time of the lending, together with the income and expenditure checks it completed. 
TFS says its affordability assessment showed Mr C had a disposable income of just under 
£50 per month after taking into account the repayments to this loan. It says there was 
negative information within Mr Cs credit file that prompted it to ask questions  but Mr C had 
plausible explanations and it accepted the answers he provided without further checks. TFS 
says it completed proportionate checks at the time of lending and these confirmed Mr C was 
in a position to sustainably afford to meet the loan payments. 
Having considered TFSs arguments, Im not persuaded I agree with it.
TFS had an obligation to obtain a clear understanding that Mr C could afford the loan and 
sustainably maintain the payments over the full period of the term. From the information TFS 
has provided Im satisfied there were sufficient markers which ought reasonably to have 
caused it to ask further questions to get a better understanding of Mr Cs financial 
circumstances.
The credit file search TFS obtained at the point of the application shows Mr C had recent 
and historic problems managing his money. Hed had five defaulted accounts since 2011, 
three of these being within the last two years. There was a combined total of just over 
£2,300 outstanding on these defaulted accounts. Mr C was also in arrears with another pay 
day loan; had been in arrears on each of his mortgage, gas, electricity and communication 
accounts within the last 10 months; and had taken another line of credit of £7,000 in 
March 2015, two months before applying for this loan.
TFS has said it asked Mr C a number of questions about the negative information on his 
credit file  and it seems to have accepted Mr Cs explanations for these issues without 
further review. It has said it was clear his financial problems were now in the past as the last 
missed payments were towards the end of 2014. However, I dont think TFS should have 
been so accepting of Mr Cs recent negative credit history  or his explanations for it without 
further checks. I say this because TFS had an obligation to challenge any contradictory 
information it obtained and was presented with. Mr Cs arrears had all been over a sustained 
period of time  and had only been brought up to date within four months of this loan being 
approved. 
TFS has said it used a formula to work out Mr Cs average income as he was receiving basic 
pay, shift pay and an allowance. TFS has used this method to conclude Mr Cs average 
wage as £1,898.29. But the two payslips TFS has provided this service show Mr Cs net 
income as £1,639.96 in March and £1,834.28 in April 2015  with Aprils pay including an 
amount of overtime. Taking into account Mr Cs actual net pay across the two months it averages out at £1,737.12. I consider it would have been reasonable for TFS to have taken 
account of the actual documented net pay Mr C received rather than looking to use its own 
calculations which it knew provided a higher figure than Mr C had actually received.  
The average figure obtained from the two payslips is £161.17 less than the figure TFS used 
in its affordability calculations. This means had TFS used this lower income figure Mr C 
would have been left in a negative position each month as his outgoings were higher than 
his income  and this shouldve promoted TFS to conducted further checks to establish both 
Mr Cs income and expenditure.
As TFS didnt do this it follows that Im not satisfied TFS completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks in this instance. Instead; Im satisfied TFS should have completed 
further checks to ensure it fully understood Mr Cs financial circumstances by verifying the 
information before lending to him.
Would further checks have shown Mr C would have been able to meet any repayments 
sustainably?
As I dont consider TFS completed proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider what I 
think further checks would have shown.
The rules arent prescriptive in how TFS needed to verify the information Mr C provided. It 
could have asked Mr C to provide a variety of documents. Mr C has provided this service 
with his bank statements covering the months before this loan. Ive reviewed these 
statements to understand his financial position at the time he applied for this loan as these 
statements would have been available to TFS at the time.
In each of the months there are significant deposits to an online gambling company. In 
March 2015 Mr C deposited over £4,500. And although I dont have the full statements for 
April 2015, from what I have I can see Mr C deposited over £1,500. Mr C was consistently 
gambling and its clear from these statements that the level of gambling was to such an 
extent that Mr C was going to continue to exceed his income because of this on a regular 
basis. 
As such, Im satisfied had TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would 
have identified Mr C was gambling a significant amount of money each month, and as such 
his outgoings were significantly higher than his income. So, it follows TFS ought to have 
concluded Mr C wouldnt have been able to sustainably afford to repay the loan and he 
wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to.
And in any event; TFSs own affordability checks concluded Mr C would be left with a 
disposable income of less than £50 per month. Im persuaded, this low level of disposable 
income wouldnt have provided Mr C with a reasonable amount of breathing space had any 
unforeseen circumstances cropped up that he needed to pay for. And given the 36-month 
term of the loan, I dont consider this low level of disposable income sustainable across the 
full term. Ive already explained that any repayments Mr C needed to make needed to occur 
without him suffering financial difficulties; and Im not persuaded £50 per month was a 
sufficient enough amount to prevent this from occurring. This is further supported by the fact 
TFS was aware Mr C had significant issues managing credit in the past. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Based on the information provided, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest TFS acted unfairly
towards Mr C in any other way.Putting things right
As Mr C has already repaid the loan, in order to settle this complaint TFS should do the 
following:
Refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on this loan.
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on the refund interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
TFS Loans Limited and direct it to put things right as detailed above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman