DRN-2933288
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner. She also 
complains that Loans 2 Go failed to provide her with appropriate information about her loan 
such as the repayment amount and term. 
What happened
Mrs M was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go in May 2020. She borrowed £500 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Almost immediately Mrs M faced problems 
repaying the loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought the results of 
the checks Loans 2 Go performed should have led to Mrs Ms loan application being 
declined. So she asked Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mrs M.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mrs M required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M. 
In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mrs M.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical data 
to revise Mrs Ms declared expenditure upwards by around 50%. Loans 2 Go also used a 
credit referencing tool to validate Mrs Ms income  revising what shed declared downwards 
by around 35%. And Loans 2 Go checked Mrs Ms credit file to see her current commitments 
and how shed managed credit in the past.
Mrs M was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient for Loans 2 Go to achieve that aim. I think the checks Loans 2 Go did 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
I think at the outset Loans 2 Go should have been concerned about the information that 
Mrs M provided about her finances. Loans 2 Gos own checks suggested that she had 
significantly overstated her normal income, and understated her expenditure. I think that 
might have suggested that Mrs M was facing some problems managing her finances and 
that her true financial situation would have rendered the loan unaffordable.
And I think those concerns would have been amplified by the results of the credit check that 
Loans 2 Go performed. 
The credit check showed that Mrs M had faced some serious problems managing her money 
in the past. A number of accounts had defaulted in previous years, and still remained 
outstanding. And a County Court Judgement had been issued against Mrs M, and remained 
unsettled, around two years before. I think those painted a picture of someone who had 
struggled with credit in the past.
Since that time Mrs Ms finances had appeared to be more stable, with less evidence of 
borrowing or problems making her repayments. But that pattern had begun to significantly 
deteriorate in the months before asking for this loan. Over the previous three months Mrs M had opened at least five new credit accounts. Of those, one loan was already in arrears and 
two credit cards were already approaching their credit limits. A credit card that had been 
opened the previous year had exceeded its credit limit.
So I think the checks that Loans 2 Go performed showed that Mrs Ms finances were once 
again under significant pressure. I dont think it was reasonable to conclude that it was likely 
that Mrs M would be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont 
think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to give this loan to Mrs M.
Ive looked at the information that Mrs M was given before the loan was agreed. That 
information, in a regulated format, clearly set out the key details of the loan including the 
amount she was borrowing, the term, and how much she would need to repay  both each 
month and in total. So I cannot conclude that Loans 2 Go failed to provide her with the 
appropriate information before agreeing the loan.
  
Putting things right
As I noted earlier, Mrs M hadnt repaid any of her borrowing when she made the complaint. 
But, since she has had the benefit of the principal that was advanced to her, I think it right 
that she repays what she was lent. But I dont think Mrs M should be expected to pay any 
interest, or charges in relation to her borrowing. So, to put things right Loans 2 Go should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mrs M has made towards the loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mrs Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs M.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman