DRN-2738236
The complaint
Mr C complains that Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited failed to 
provide him with appropriate advice regarding the transfer of pension benefits in 2015.
What happened
Mr C held deferred pension benefits in a public sector defined benefits scheme (OPS). In 
2015 he received advice from Cowley & Miller regarding the transfer of those pension 
savings to a personal pension. The advice he received from Cowley & Miller recommended 
that he should transfer his pension savings. Mr C accepted that advice and transferred his 
pension savings to a new personal pension in June 2015. 
Mr C complains that the advice he received was unsuitable. He says that he was misled over 
the potential investment returns that might be achieved from his transferred pension savings. 
And he says that he had no intention of taking his pension benefits at age 55 as suggested 
by Cowley & Miller. Cowley & Miller didnt agree with Mr Cs complaint so he brought it to 
this Service.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Mr C had received had been suitable. He thought that the investment returns that 
would be needed to match the guaranteed benefits that Mr C was giving up were too high. 
And he wasnt persuaded that any additional flexibility that Mr C would ultimately gain when 
he took his pension benefits was either needed, or sufficient to support the loss of the 
guaranteed benefits. So he recommended that the complaint should be upheld and asked 
Cowley & Miller to pay Mr C some compensation.
Cowley & Miller didnt agree with that assessment. It pointed out that changes to legislation 
would mean that Mr C would have lost the opportunity to transfer his pension savings shortly 
after its advice was provided so it wasnt able to suggest he defer his decision to closer to 
retirement. It said that it clearly set out the comparative investment returns that Mr Cs 
pension savings would need to achieve to match the OPS benefits. So it thought that, based 
on the above, Mr C had made a fully informed decision to accept the recommendation it had 
made.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Cowley & Miller. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.  
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements at the time 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Cowley & Miller advised 
Mr C were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that 
regulated businesses, like Cowley & Miller, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is 
suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level 
of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Cowley & Miller needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its 
advice met Mr Cs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out 
the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
From the information I have seen, it appears that Cowley & Miller met the majority of the 
requirements under the above regulations. It appears to have gathered information from 
Mr C about his circumstances and future plans (although as Ill discuss later Mr C disputes 
some of those findings), performed some detailed analysis comparing the OPS benefits with 
those projected from the personal pension, and set out the results of its analysis for Mr C in 
a written report.
But, despite all the above being performed, I have concerns about the suitability of Mr Cs 
decision to transfer his pension benefits. From the telephone call I have listened to, it is clear 
that the ultimate decision to transfer was made by Mr C. But it is equally clear that when he 
made that decision Mr C had not reviewed, in any great detail, the analysis that 
Cowley & Miller had provided. Instead it seems to me that he was heavily relying on the 
advice and recommendation that Cowley & Miller had provided to him.
And I dont think that approach is entirely surprising. Mr C doesnt appear to have previously 
had much exposure, or experience, in matters such as these. The transfer of pension 
benefits is a complex and detailed process. And so I think it would be entirely reasonable for 
Mr C to base his decision, in the main, on the advice and recommendation hed received 
from his professional advisor - to whom he was paying a substantial fee equal to 5% of his 
pension savings. I dont think that it is reasonable for Cowley & Miller to absolve itself from 
responsibility for its recommendation on the basis that it provided information to Mr C, or that 
he ultimately made his own decision to transfer his pension benefits.
So I think it is right that my focus in this decision is the advice that Cowley & Miller gave to 
Mr C, rather than the decision he made.
Cowley & Miller performed some analysis comparing the benefits that would be due to Mr C 
from the OPS to those that he might receive from a personal pension. His OPS benefits 
were in two parts, with different retirement ages. So the analysis that Cowley & Miller carried 
out needed to look at each transfer separately. One of the key pieces of information that is 
produced by that analysis is known as the critical yield. Simplistically that represents the 
growth that would need to be achieved, every year, on the transferred pension savings to 
allow Mr C to replicate his guaranteed OPS benefits when he retired.The critical yields that were shown by Cowley & Millers analysis were 7.99% and 7.34%. 
And it is important to remember that those were the investment growth rates that would be 
needed to simply match the OPS benefits. The regulators rules suggest that the benefit of a 
transfer should be clearly demonstrated to be in a clients best interests. In 2015, when this 
advice was given to Mr C, growth rates of that size would be very much at the top end of any 
reasonable predictions  and given Mr Cs measured attitude to risk of balanced could be 
considered to be unlikely to be achievable.
Mr C has provided us with his recollections of the discussions he had with Cowley & Miller 
leading up to the recommendation being made. He recalls that he was given information to 
suggest that similar investments to those being proposed for his personal pension had 
achieved annual returns of around 10% over the previous years. I think what Mr C has told 
us is entirely plausible and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of his recollections. And 
whilst analysis to show previous investment returns of 10% isnt in itself likely to have been 
inaccurate I dont think it would have provided Mr C with sufficient understanding of the 
potential volatility of such returns, and that they couldnt be guaranteed in the future.
But of course the financial aspects of such a transfer are not the only matters that I should 
consider. There might also be attractions in the flexibility that such a transfer would provide, 
both in terms of when and how any retirement benefits might be taken, and in the way 
benefits could be used by Mr Cs dependents should he die before reaching retirement. 
I have said earlier that it was unlikely that Mr Cs pension benefits would be as large 
following the transfer to a personal pension as they would be if theyd remained in the OPS. 
And I think that information was corroborated by some of the calculations that 
Cowley & Miller performed. So, to consider the advice suitable, I would need to find that the 
flexibility offered by the transfer outweighed the cost of the reduced pension benefits.
Cowley & Miller recorded that Mr C was attracted to taking his retirement benefits at age 55, 
rather than 60 or 65 years of age as would be the case if they remained with the OPS. Mr C 
has told us that this wasnt something that was important to him, but instead was something 
that Cowley & Miller used to support its recommendation. I havent seen anything to make 
me think that retiring at 55 was important to Mr C  particularly considering that he was only 
35 years old at that time. He had at least a further 20 years before he could take his 
retirement benefits, and much could change in that time.
And I havent seen anything that would make me think that Mr C was particularly concerned 
about dying before he reached retirement and therefore how his pension benefits might be 
used to support his dependents. The OPS did provide some benefits for dependents, and 
Mr C has explained that he also had life assurance, and a property, that could help provide 
for his family in the event of an early death.
I am mindful that Mr Cs decision was being made against a legislative deadline. Often in 
cases such as these I might expect a financial advisor to recommend a decision like this  
predicated to some degree on taking early retirement  to be left until closer to the time, so a 
better understanding of a consumers needs could be formed. But that option wasnt open to 
Mr C  forthcoming legislation would prevent the transfer of benefits from a public sector 
scheme such as his OPS to a private pension. But I dont think those time pressures, and 
the lack of future opportunity, are sufficient to mitigate against a decision that wasnt in 
Mr Cs best financial interests.So taking everything into account I dont think the transfer from the OPS to a private pension 
was in Mr Cs best financial interests. And I dont think that any other reasons, such as 
enhanced flexibility or the loss of the transfer option, were sufficient to outweigh the financial 
losses that Mr C was likely to incur. It follows that I dont think the recommendation 
Cowley & Miller gave to Mr C was suitable, and so it needs to pay him some compensation. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Cowley & Miller to put Mr C, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Cowley & Miller must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Cowley & Miller may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
Cowley & Miller receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Cowley & Miller to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
It is clear that this problem will have caused a degree of trouble and upset to Mr C when 
reviewing his provisions for retirement. And it will leave him without a future guarantee of his 
retirement income. So I direct Cowley & Miller to pay Mr C a further sum of £250 in that 
regard.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Cowley & Miller Independent 
Financial Services Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman