DRN-2657117
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Mr J experienced issues with the car shortly after collecting it. These included intermittent 
knocking sounds from the engine and the car failing to start.
Mr J contacted the supplying dealer who said it would reimburse Mr J for a new battery if he 
arranged to have it replaced.
Mr J says that once the new battery was fitted the starting issue temporarily disappeared. 
But they soon returned and as well as this, Mr J experienced the electronic handbrake not 
working, he car overheating and other electrical failures. He complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This took place in February 
2020. The engineer found that the heater blower fan remained on when the engine was 
turned off and said he suspected that this was causing the battery to become discharged. 
The engineer also found electrical fault codes, evidence of accident repair and a clunking 
noise which he suspected was a CV joint. The engineer concluded that the accident repairs 
wouldve been present at the point of supply but couldnt confirm when the electrical fault 
with the heater had occurred.
A further independent inspection was carried out in March 2020. The engineer found that the 
dashboard was displaying a battery discharged message and the heater fan continued to run 
at full speed after the engine had been turned off. The engineer also found a vibration in the 
engine and evidence of cosmetic refinishing with the bonnet and front wings appearing to 
have been repaired and repainted.
Based on the findings of the independent inspections, Moneybarn rejected Mr Js complaint. 
It said that although the inspection had found some faults, these werent likely to have been 
present at the point of supply. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he thought the issues with the car starting 
were likely to have been caused by the heater blower fault which affected the battery charge 
retention. The investigator said that the first independent inspection had identified 22 fault 
codes which supported Mr Js testimony that there were several electrical faults. The 
investigator concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and 
said that Mr J should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr j said he agreed with the investigator. Moneybarn didnt reply so Ive been asked to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
age and mileage. Satisfactory also includes fitness for purpose, durability and safety
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months from the 
point of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply 
and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. 
After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
An independent engineers report can help to decide whether the car is of satisfactory quality. 
Ive looked at the reports in this case. Both engineers have identified a fault with the heater 
blower fan remaining on after the engine is turned off. The first inspection report suggest that 
this is causing the battery to drain. The second report noted that a battery discharge warning 
message was displayed.
Both reports also identify accident damage to the car which has been repaired. Although I 
appreciate that part of Mr Js complaint relates to his suspicion that the car has been in n 
accident, I dont think that accident repair of itself would render the car of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Its the fault with the heater blower which, in my view, renders the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. Mr Js testimony is very clear about the problems he experienced with the car failing 
to start within the first month of acquiring it. The supplying dealer met the costs of a new 
battery, but the issues continued. Even with the new battery the car displayed a battery 
discharged warning message on the second inspection, which was only around 3 months of 
the new battery being fitted.
The battery was replaced at the request of the supplying dealer and it reimbursed Mr J for 
the cost of a new battery. So, whilst the supplying dealer didnt carry out the repairs itself, Im 
treating this as an attempt at repairs. Its clear, from the information in the independent 
reports, that the attempt at repair wasnt successful, because the battery was still showing as 
discharged.
Taking all the available evidence into account, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the 
heater blower which was causing the battery to discharge. The fact that the issues with the 
car failing to start and requiring a new battery began so soon after the point of supply 
suggests to me that the fault was likely to have been present at the point of supply. 
Putting things right
There has already been an attempt at repair here, by replacing the battery,  which hasnt 
been successful.  Under the relevant legislation, Mr J should be allowed to reject the car. 
Its clear that the fault with the heater blower and battery has caused intermittent issues for 
Mr The car hasnt performed as it should have done and Mr J has suffered impaired use as a 
result. Because of this, I think its fair to ask Moneybarn to refund 5% of all payments  Mr J 
has made since 4 December 2019. Im not asking Moneybarn to refund all the payments Mr J has made because I can see that hes had use of the car.
Mr J has described the impact of the issues with the car have had on him. Hes had to take 
time off work to have the car repaired and inspected and hes suffered inconvenience when 
the car wouldnt start. I think its fair to ask Moneybarn to pay compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr J
Refund any deposit paid together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund 5% of all monthly payments made by Mr J  since 4 December 2019 together 
with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Js credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman