DRN-3353618
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited (CB) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with CB.
Within the first month of getting the car, Miss S experienced issues relating to the exhaust, 
the engine management light and the CO2 sensors. The car was returned to the supplying 
dealer for repairs, but the issues continued.
CB agreed to end the agreement and collect the car. It refunded the deposit and offered 
compensation.
Miss S remained unhappy and complained to this service. She said the refund and 
compensation didnt cover the costs shed incurred because of the issues with the car and 
the time and stress pursuing her complaint.
Our investigator said she didnt think CB had acted fairly. She said that because the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality, she thought it was fair that CB should cover the costs of any 
diagnostic tests which had been completed. The investigator said that CBs offer to refund 
the deposit and one months payment was fair, but that interest should be added to these 
sums.
Miss S didnt agree. She said she thought she should receive more compensation to reflect 
the financial losses shed suffered as a result of the issues with the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
gods includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car supplied to Miss S wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. CB doesnt dispute this and has accepted rejection. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ive thought about whether the resolution proposed by CB is fair and reasonable. 
When a rejection is accepted, Id generally expect the finance provider to refund any deposit 
paid, and to refund monthly payments subject to a deduction for usage. In this case, I can 
see that the car had covered around 80,000 miles at the point of supply. At the time when 
CB accepted the rejection, the car had covered around 89,000 miles. Taking this into 
account, I think CB has acted fairly in deducting one monthly payment for every 10000 miles 
covered. Im of the view that the offer to refund the deposit plus one monthly payment is fair 
in the circumstances. However, I agree with the investigator that interest should be added to 
the refund of the deposit and the monthly payment.
Miss S has said that she arranged and paid for three diagnostic checks on the car. Because 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality, I think Miss S should be refunded the costs of any 
diagnostic checks. However, Ive only seen evidence of one diagnostic check which was 
invoiced at £30. I think its fair to ask CB to refund the cost of this check, but not for any other 
checks as these havent been evidenced.
Ive taken into account what Miss S has said about the impact that the issues with the car 
have had on her daily life, including her ability to visit clients for work. Miss S says shes 
suffered a financial loss. I appreciate that the issues with the car made it more difficult for 
Miss S to travel around. I also appreciate that if Miss S was unable to work, this wouldve 
reduced her income. This service asked Miss S to provide evidence of her loss of income. 
However, I havent seen enough to be able to say that any loss was directly attributable to 
the issues with the car. So I wont be asking CB to increase its offer of compensation. I think 
the sum offered is fair.
Putting things right
To put things right, and in addition to what it has already offered to do, CB must refund Miss 
S the cost of the diagnostic check of £30 and pay interest on all refunds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss s
Refund one monthly payment of £92.37
Refund the cost of the diagnostic check of £30
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman