DRN-4376784
The complaint
Mr O has complained, stating in his complaint form, that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited negatively impacted his credit score by the way it registered the amounts he was 
paying his premium for his motor insurance by instalments. 
He said it failed to update the credit rating agencies accurately about the balance remaining 
on his policy. He also said its service was poor to include how a phone call was conducted. 
What happened
Mr O decided to pay his premium for his motor policy by instalments. This means the 
balance owing is routinely registered with the credit rating agencies. 
Initially, following Mr Os complaint, Admiral only upheld its poor service and offered Mr O 
£50 compensation for this. Following Mr O bringing his complaint to this service, Admiral 
then accepted that it had sent the wrong information to the credit rating agencies but had 
now corrected this. It offered Mr O a further £100 compensation.
 
The investigator thought Admirals compensation was fair and reasonable. But Mr O 
disagreed as hes of the view his credit rating is still affected, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im deciding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. I think 
Admirals compensation to Mr O is fair and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill 
now explain why.
First, I must make it clear to Mr O that I am only considering his complaint against Admiral in 
this decision. So, in this decision I cant consider the actions or the lack of actions of any 
credit rating agency about his credit score, or indeed the difficulty in getting the credit rating 
agencies to send over the correct documents. 
The reason for this is quite straightforward. We can only write a decision against one 
business at a time as that forms the legally binding outcome between that business and the 
consumer when or if a consumer accepts it. So, no decision can be written against multiple 
different businesses even though a consumer might have a complaint arising out of the 
same circumstances against several businesses. In that situation the consumer must set up 
a different complaint against each business separately. And Mr O is free to discuss his 
complaints against the other businesses with the investigator so that they can be pursued if 
Mr O wishes.
 
Im aware as this complaint developed, Mr O made complaints to the credit rating agencies, 
but those complaints are not being considered in this decision. I am merely dealing with what 
if anything, Admiral did wrong.
Its normal industry practice to register the payment of premiums for an insurance policy by 
instalments with credit rating agencies. Initially, Admiral didnt think it had made any mistake 
in the figures it had given to the credit rating agencies about how much Mr O still had to pay 
for his premium. And then it discovered it had made an error which it then corrected. And 
because its service to Mr O was poor in the way it handled a phone call, it offered him £50 
compensation. Also, because it made an error in the figures it sent to the credit rating 
agency, it offered Mr O a further £100 compensation. 
When we look at these sorts of complaints where the business such as Admiral here, made 
an error, we look to see if it corrected it. Here Admiral did that. Which is what I would have 
expected it to do. So, when Admiral corrected its mistake, theres little else it can then do. I 
also consider it is reasonable Admiral paid Mr O compensation for its mistake. Because its 
mistake clearly caused Mr O distress and upset, and the compensation offered reflects that 
in my view. So, I think the amounts paid by Admiral for compensation are fair and 
reasonable. This is because the amounts are in line with our stance on the matter, and 
further in line with what I have awarded in other cases in similar circumstances. 
Mr O believes that the incorrect figures sent by Admiral to the credit rating agencies 
negatively impacted his credit score. The credit agencies finally sent through all the relevant 
reports, and Ive examined them in detail as did the credit agencies themselves. The credit 
agencies believe that a hard search listed as being done by a mobile phone company, is 
the reason Mr Os credit rating dipped and not anything that Admiral did and then corrected. 
If it helps Mr O, lenders receive the credit ratings from the varying credit reference agencies 
when considering a consumers wish for a loan.  But each lender has its own individual 
criteria to decide whether to grant the loan or not. Its never just solely based on any 
individual score from a credit reference agency. The decision is made on whatever each 
lender thinks is important. 
However, given this evidence from the credit rating agency on what they believe caused his 
credit rating to dip, there is nothing else to show me that in fact Admirals error had any 
negative impact on Mr Os credit rating. So, on this basis I dont consider Admiral has to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation 
only. 
I now require that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited pays Mr O the total sum of £150 
compensation it offered him, £50 before the complaint came to us and £100 after the case 
came to us. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman