DRN-3125242
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with his motor insurer Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) as it 
wont pay him VAT upfront on repair costs, and this decision has caused him a lot of 
compounded upset, along with increased premiums, at the end of a difficult claim.  
What happened
Mr O had an accident in August 2020 for which he was not at fault. Initially he dealt with the 
other drivers insurer but came to HICL when he wasnt happy with the course the claim 
settlement was taking. HICL actioned the claim, getting an engineer to review the likely cost 
of repair and make an offer to Mr O. The engineer offered a settlement to Mr O of £8,500 so 
he could repair his car. Mr O said hed accept that sum, but he wasnt very happy about it as 
it was much less than the repair costs that had been determined before he asked HICL to 
consider the claim. He said that left him short by about £5,000.
As Mr O was unhappy with the settlement offer, HICL asked the engineer to review it and 
explain the rationale behind it, including why it was less than the previously determined 
repair cost. But, in the meantime, it paid Mr O the £8,500. The engineer explained how he 
had come to a value of £8,500, but he accepted some of the values he had ascribed were 
likely too low, so a revised estimate was given. The engineer said the repairs would likely 
cost £9,574 net of VAT. HICL told Mr O this is what it would settle for and paid him the 
difference outstanding from its original payment. 
Mr O said he wasnt happy to receive a cash payment that was net of VAT. He said he 
couldnt get repairs done without paying VAT. And, further, that as HICL would always have 
to pay VAT, its cash-in-lieu settlement, paid in exchange for it not doing the repairs, should 
be paid inclusive of VAT. HICL told Mr O that it would reimburse his VAT cost as long as he 
used a manufacturer approved garage. In the alternative, it said that if Mr O arranged the 
repairs, via an approved garage, it would liaise directly with the garage and pay VAT directly 
once it was satisfied the garages repair costs equalled the settlement it had made.
Mr O remained unhappy. He noted his claim was still open and he felt the open claim had 
caused his premium with his new insurer to be inflated. He said HICL should have just paid 
the settlement gross of VAT which would have let his claim close and bring his extra costs to 
an end. Mr O also explained how the delay in settlement at this time had compounded the 
upset hed felt as a result of the claim, as well as that caused by some initial delays and poor 
claim handling of HICL during its assessment. HICL reviewed matters and it wasnt minded 
to revise its position on the payment of VAT. But it agreed that it hadnt handled the claim 
well at times and paid £250 compensation. Mr O remained dissatisfied and so he brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator ultimately explained to Mr O that this services approach in respect of 
payment of VAT is generally to say that an insurer can reasonably withhold payment of the 
VAT  until a VAT invoice is obtained. She felt that as Mr O had changed his insurer, she 
couldnt comment on the increased premiums. She noted that HICL had paid £250 
compensation. Overall, she felt HICL had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr O said he was unhappy, both with the outcome and the reasonings given, which he felt 
had been unclear at times. He said his understanding was that an insurer paid a cash-in-lieu 
settlement to reflect what it would cost them to complete repairs  and that would always 
include a cost for VAT. So, Mr O felt this was a sum HICL shouldnt fairly withhold, also 
noting a previous decision by ourselves as well as a court judgement. Both of which he felt 
supported his position. He explained again why he felt £250 compensation was insufficient 
given what hed been through, particularly noting that HICL had only agreed to the cash-in-
lieu settlement as the ongoing nature of the claim was causing him upset.
 
Mr Os complaint then came to me for review. I didnt think HICL needed to pay VAT upfront. 
But I did think it failed Mr O in part when it made the settlement offer and then restricted it by 
saying it would only pay the VAT cost if a manufacturers garage was used for repair. I was 
also satisfied that I could and should comment on Mr Os reported premium increase. 
Overall, I felt some further compensation is fairly and reasonably due. So I issued a 
provisional decision. Both parties have responded. HICL said it has nothing further to add. 
Mr O provided a lengthy reply  the key point of which Ive summarised and responded to in 
my findings section below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
VAT
I understand why Mr O thinks HICL was wrong to not offer VAT. But its position on that is not 
an unusual or unreasonable one. In respect of repairs this services usual stance is to say 
that an insurer should pay net of VAT until such a time as a VAT invoice for insured repairs 
is submitted. Thats because whilst it might always cost an insurer VAT if it were doing the 
repairs, when it isnt, it isnt always necessarily the case that a policyholder will likely incur 
that cost. And a policyholder isnt meant to benefit from a claim  which they would if an 
insurer paid them an amount it wasnt clear they would necessarily incur.
This service isnt bound by legal precedent. But, in any event, the court case Mr O has sent 
details of doesnt assist him. I can see that whilst the judge found the VAT sum should be 
paid, that was in a case against the insurer for the other driver involved in the crash with the 
claimant  and the judge found the sum due (gross VAT) was necessary to deal with the 
drop in value of the car. So quite different circumstances to those in question here in respect 
of Mr Os insurer and a repair settlement.
I know Mr O also found a previous decision from this service where we said the insurer 
should pay VAT upfront on repair costs. But each case is considered on its own merits and 
whilst we have a usual stance on this, as explained above, we can find differently where its 
appropriate to do so. And I can see that in the example decision Mr O has  flagged for my 
attention the complainant had obtained a quote from a garage, which included VAT, and our 
ombudsman seemed to be satisfied that the complainant would be using that garage to do 
the work. So, in that case, it was most likely the VAT cost in question was going to be 
incurred. Again, that is a different situation to that Im considering for Mr O, where there is no 
indication of where or when the necessary work will be done. 
Im aware that Mr O has also argued that HICL only added the caveat in respect of VAT 
once he had agreed to accept its proffered cash-in-lieu settlement. And Mr O has explained 
that his understanding was always that a cash-in-lieu payment would automatically include VAT and HICL didnt tell him otherwise. So, Mr O thinks its unfair for it to have then tried to 
not pay the VAT.
Just because one party to an agreement has an understanding which the other does 
nothing to dispel, doesnt mean that the other party is at fault. In any event, HICLs engineer 
put the original offer to Mr O of £8,500 and I dont know how this was dealt with or what was 
said between the two. I do know that the engineers report specified the sum was net VAT, 
but its possible that the engineer wasnt clear with Mr O about this. However, Mr O told 
HICL, regardless of VAT, and although he would accept the sum, that he wasnt happy with 
it. That caused HICL to revise the settlement figure. So, effectively, the offer of £8,500 was 
taken off the table. When HICL went back to Mr O to offer £9,574 for the repairs it did so in 
writing and the email clearly stated that the offer was net VAT. I think its fair to say that the 
revised and clearly stated offer superseded the original one. So I dont think that, if HICLs 
engineer did fail Mr O by not being clear about VAT in the first offer made, that should 
reasonably bind HICL to having to pay gross VAT regardless of proof of Mr O incurring VAT.
Im satisfied that HICL did nothing wrong when it made an offer to Mr O for repairs which 
was net VAT. Its fair and reasonable for HICL to only pay the VAT once repairs are done 
and VAT is incurred. That said I also note that HICL offered to pay VAT direct to the 
repairing garage  so that Mr O wouldnt have to pay the VAT and then claim it back. I think 
that was also a reasonable offer by it. However, I think HICL did fail Mr O by adding an unfair 
restriction to these offers.
Manufacturer garage
HICL told Mr O that it would only pay him VAT; if he got the repairs done that its engineer 
had stipulated and at a manufacturers garage. It said the repairs and cost would have to 
match the reported work and costs and, if it was satisfied they did, then it would pay the 
VAT. That wasnt fair or reasonable because Mr O doesnt have to get repairs done by the 
manufacturers garage  in fact he says some of the work cant be done there. But just 
because he might choose to use a non-manufacturer garage, doesnt mean he definitely 
wont be subject to paying VAT. 
I understand that HICL added this restriction because it wanted to be sure it wasnt going to 
pay more (or less) VAT to Mr O than he incurred or that wasnt due in respect of the insured 
repairs agreed. That in itself is not an unreasonable stance. But HICLs execution of it was 
flawed and caused it to make an unfair and unreasonable offer of settlement to Mr O. I 
further understand that Mr O has been suffering some financial difficulties. This meant he felt 
unable to get the repairs done  he didnt think he could use a manufacturers garage 
(because of the nature of necessary specialist repairs) and that would leave him with a VAT 
bill of around £2,000, which HICL wouldnt pay. I can see how Mr O felt stuck  and he felt 
that way because of HICLs failure to be clear with him about the basis for when it would pay 
the VAT. So Ive thought about this when considering a compensation award below. 
I think though, that if HICL had been clear with Mr O the situation that resulted would have 
been different. HICL could have explained that, where Mr Os cost for repair including VAT 
was not less than what it had already paid to him, he could use any garage for repair and it 
would pay the VAT due on the insured work, to a maximum of the price it had agreed for that 
work. And, I think, if it had done so, that would have given Mr O enough assurance that he 
wasnt going to be left out of pocket for sums he reasonably felt entitled to receive under the 
claim. So I think he would have progressed the repairs.Repair and sale of the car
I know Mr O has been wanting to sell his car, but he wanted to do the repair first. I can see 
that hed get a better price for the car if the repairs were done. But Im also mindful that the 
value of the car, in its repaired state, is far more than the VAT sum in dispute. So Im not 
necessarily persuaded it was reasonable for Mr O to put the repair and/or sale of the car on 
hold whilst disputing payment for the relatively small sum of VAT. But I appreciate this was a 
difficult position for Mr O to be in and it was one of HICLs making. And Ive taken that 
frustration into account when considering a compensation award below.
Premiums
Whilst Mr O changed insurer, that doesnt mean I cant consider whether any failures of 
HICL caused him to suffer a higher premium than he should have been charged. 
The accident happened in August 2020 and HICL became involved in September. Mr Os 
policy renewed in October with him changing insurers. I couldnt reasonably expect HICL to 
have settled Mr Os claim by the point of renewal. And an insurer settling a claim for a 
non-fault accident doesnt necessarily mean the claim, at that time, will be closed. Often a 
claim will remain open whilst an insurer pursues recovery of its outlay. Im not persuaded it 
would be fair to say that HICL should reasonably have settled the claim and recovered its 
outlay by the time Mr Os policy renewed in October. So he would always have renewed with 
an open claim on his record and that would always have affected the cost of his cover. 
The price for cover will also be affected though by whether a claim is considered to be fault 
or not, and sometimes by the application or refusal of a no claims bonus. Here I note that in 
November 2020, whilst the claim was still open, HICL did write to Mr O to confirm that this 
was a non-fault claim and his bonus remained in-tact  neither of which facts would change 
as the claim progressed. I think that HICL providing this written clarification was a good thing 
 it was a document that might enable Mr O to appeal to his new insurer to reduce his 
premium. I dont think HICL could have done more than that and whilst I know that, by this 
time, it had caused the claim to become delayed, I think this was a good way to try and 
alleviate some of the repercussions Mr O was feeling because the claim was unresolved. 
The claim was closed in February 2021. Im not sure why it took HICL until then to do that. 
But I think the dispute over the VAT settlement which arose in late December 2020 cant 
have helped the situation. And if the delays in the previous months hadnt occurred then the 
revised settlement offer would likely have been put to Mr O in early November (rather than 
late December). As I said above, if that had been put to Mr O properly, I think he would have 
accepted it. Which I think would have given time for the claim  bearing in mind the 
third-party had always fully accepted fault  to close before Christmas 2020. Once the claim 
did close, Mr O would need to have asked his new insurer to review the cost for the premium 
 and in line with what Id see as good industry practice, it would likely have revised the 
whole yearly cost of the cover. So Mr O has had an initial increased outlay over a prolonged 
period because of HICLs failure to manage the claim to closure before Christmas 2020, But 
that loss should be resolved by the new insurers normal and usual actions in managing 
Mr Os current policy in light of the updated claim situation. So Im not going to require HICL 
to do anything in respect of compensating Mr Os reported increased costs. But I accept that 
he likely suffered frustration during this time, which I have taken into account when 
considering compensation. Compensation
I think HICL could have handled this claim more efficiently at times. And it has accepted that 
it did cause some delays. Ive also found above that its delays caused the claim and its 
closure to be prolonged with its poorly executed settlement offer caused Mr O ongoing 
upset. I bear in mind what Mr O says  that he had a poor experience with the other insurer 
and came to HICL for assistance  so its failures were particularly disappointing for him. Im 
also mindful that HICLs failure to be clear about its offer likely impacted the worry Mr O was 
feeling about his financial situation. As I noted above, Mr O clearly felt stuck  wanting to 
repair his car but fearing being left with a bill he couldnt afford. In the circumstances I think 
its fair and reasonable to say HICL should pay Mr O a further £350 compensation (making 
total compensation for distress and inconvenience £600).
In summary, in reply Mr O said:
What is really required is a clear definition of what a cash-in-lieu settlement means.
Throughout he was of the opinion that everyone involved agreed that he should get a 
cash amount equivalent to HICLs cost of repair but as a compensatory sum, not as a 
repayment of the actual costs for carrying out the repair.
He was never told VAT would be withheld, and it should have been explicitly clear about 
this with him when he first complained and said he didnt want to repair the car.
The engineer didnt offer a settlement, only HICL could do that, and when it did offer 
£8,500 it didnt say this didnt include VAT. So, he had no reason to assume it didnt 
include VAT. As such he accepted it on the basis VAT was included.
As he had accepted on the basis of VAT being included, it wasnt fair for the new offer to 
have different terms attached, namely that VAT was not included.
The engineer was deliberately using lower sums to keep the car from being a total loss, 
which Mr O didnt want to happen, and so he was always aware the settlement would be 
less than what it will actually cost him to repair his car.
So, it isnt fair that an invoice will need to be provided for VAT to be paid. Even if HICL 
pay the VAT amount to him, hell still have a loss if he completes the repairs.
As he will always be out of pocket I should use my discretion to step away from our 
usual stance on payment of VAT.
He wonders what will happen if the actual cost of repairs does come to a higher sum 
than that agreed. He is concerned that this aspect has never been given any 
consideration, and he is worried he could end up with a shortfall HICL wont pay or it 
suddenly decides the car is a total loss  which was an outcome the other drivers 
insurer tried to implement and which caused him to refer his claim to HICL.
I know Mr O would like this service to say; we consider cash-in-lieu means, and always 
means, X. But its not really possible to apply a definition out of context. Especially not for 
this term as one would need to know in-lieu of what. And that is the real issue at the heart 
of this. Mr O thinks he was asking for and/or getting a cash amount to compensate him for 
the damage to his car, and which wasnt really a payment to allow him to get the repairs 
done. He says he was clear with HICL that this was what he wanted, and it wasnt clear that 
this wasnt the basis for its offer.However, Mr O had a contract of insurance with HICL. And the terms of that policy set out 
what HICL will do and what Mr O is entitled to in the event of a claim where a car needs 
repair and can be repaired. In short that is that HICL will repair the car, or alternatively pay 
for its repair. 
Mr O may have thought that the engineer wasnt making an offer to him. But, whilst I havent 
heard that call, I think that is what the engineer was doing. And it isnt unusual for engineers 
and the like to make the offer for the insurer. Further the email that followed that call from 
HICL, wasnt an offer based on a recommendation having been made to it by the engineer, 
as the opening line of the email said:
Im pleased to hear that youve made an agreement with [the] engineer to have a cash in 
lieu settlement of £8500 under the above claim. 
As Mr O says this email didnt go on to specify any terms  but I think thats because the 
agreement had already been made with the engineer. But, as I said provisionally, Mr O, 
having said he would accept the sum, then indicated he was unhappy with it. That caused 
HICL to review what it thought the settlement should be, and when its revised offer was put 
to Mr O, HICL was then clear that this was a sum based on the cost of repairing the car, 
without the cost of VAT. The policy entitled Mr O to the cost of repair of the car. Not all car 
repairers charge VAT. And Mr O hasnt yet obtained his own estimates for repair. So, unless 
or until Mr O gets those estimates, it isnt clear what his cost for repair will be, or that this will 
likely include VAT. And as VAT is only payable upon completion of work, only an invoice for 
work that details VAT will show that Mr Os loss includes VAT. If Mr O has to incur VAT to 
get the car fixed, HICL will then pay it. 
At this stage, I dont know if Mr O will be out of pocket. I cant reasonably step outside of our 
established approach on VAT when I dont have reasonable grounds for doing so. I know 
Mr O believes there are many reasons why I should do this here. But, having reviewed 
everything, I dont think HICL have acted unfairly in respect of not agreeing to pay VAT 
upfront. I have said that it was unfair of HICL to add certain restrictions to how and where 
Mr O would need to have the repairs done in order to claim VAT, and I stand by those 
comments. Keeping those comments in mind, Im satisfied that its fair for HICL to settle the 
VAT sum if and/or when Mr O presents it with a VAT invoice for the repair of his car.
I cant comment on the cost of repairs themselves. That wasnt an issue Mr O complained 
about. His concern wasnt that the costs for the actual work was insufficient  rather that the 
sum HICL offered didnt include VAT. That is the complaint Ive considered and, now, which 
Ive made a final decision on. 
Putting things right
I require HICL to do the following:
Whether or not Mr O uses a manufacturer garage, pay the garage or reimburse him for 
VAT incurred, against his cost for insured work, up to a maximum value of the VAT sum 
applicable to the total repair settlement figure. However, should Mr Os repair cost, 
including VAT, not exceed the settlement value already paid, then no payment against 
Mr Os VAT cost will need to be paid.
Pay Mr O a further £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience (making total 
compensation paid £600).My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman