DRN-4248181
The complaint
Mr P complains that a used vehicle supplied by Black Horse Limited under a hire purchase
agreement (HPA) was of unsatisfactory quality and he should have been allowed to reject it.
Hes also unhappy about the way the agreement ended and the impact of this on his credit
record.
What happened
On 12 September 2022 Mr P acquired a motorhome with from Black Horse. After he had the
vehicle for a short time he reported a tracking issue to the supplying dealer and complained
that tyres were worn unevenly, there was cosmetic damage to the rear bumper and rear
door and some paperwork included in the service history has a different vehicle registration.
Not long after this, he reported issues with the vehicles suspension and a pull-out bed to 
Black Horse - in addition to the other issues.
Mr P paid a third party garage to fix the tracking and the supplying dealer covered this cost 
but the dealer refused to accept liability for the tyres or damage to the rear bumper and door. 
The dealer said there was cctv footage that shows the damage was not present when the
vehicle was collected and, whilst there was an advisory on one tyre in the MOT carried out
before supply, this was replaced - and all tyres were roadworthy when Mr P acquired the
vehicle.
Black Horse upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. It said (in summary):-
tyres and tracking could be said to fall into fair wear and tear on a used vehicle like
this one, the motorhome needed tracking but the dealer paid for this to be resolved
and Mr P accepted that, so it was no longer an issue;
the vehicle passed an MOT before supply so the tyres must have been roadworthy at
that point and, in any event, the dealer later replaced the tyres at no cost to Mr P;
the reference to a different registration in the paperwork was likely a typographical
error as a third party confirmed that the work in question was carried out to this 
vehicle and theres no adverse impact on the motorhome or its service history;
photographs provided showing rear damage are dated before supply which shows Mr 
P was aware of, and accepted, the damage present at the time. 
As a goodwill gesture, Black Horse offered to cover the cost of repairs to the rear door and 
the bumper and pay Mr P £75 compensation for any upset caused. Mr P supplied a quote for 
repairs (of about £300) initially, then he decided not to accept the offer - as he wanted our 
service to investigate. He cancelled the direct debit for the monthly finance payments and 
told Black Horse he was struggling to afford the repayments, his health had  deteriorated 
and he was no longer able to drive the vehicle. Black Horse offered to consider a repayment 
plan but Mr P decided to ended the HPA by a process called voluntary termination (VT) in 
November 2022. Hes unhappy that theres an outstanding amount of nearly £30,000 left to 
pay and hes concerned about the impact of this on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Hes satisfied the
tracking issue was fixed at no cost to Mr P, which wasnt unreasonable. He acknowledged a
consumer has the right to reject a faulty vehicle within 30 days of supply - under the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - but he couldnt see the damage complained of in
photographs provided. He was satisfied that Mr P had the chance to inspect before purchase 
so any damage present should have been raised then and handover paperwork suggests 
the exterior was checked at the point of supply with no significant issues. He wasnt 
persuaded that Black Horse has acted unfairly or unreasonably overall - he thought the offer 
to pay for repairs on a goodwill basis seemed fair and Black Horse was supportive when Mr 
P reported money problems. Hes satisfied that Black Horse explained the implications of VT 
and Mr P chose to go ahead. He didnt think Black Horse should have to do anything further 
in the circumstances.
Mr P remained unhappy and he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary,
he considers his photographs show the rear damage was present before he got the vehicle.
He says the salesperson was aware of this - as it was pointed out along with the faulty bed 
at the time of viewing - and the dealer agreed these issues would be fixed before collection. 
Mr P acknowledges some things were resolved - such as tracking - but feels he should have
been allowed to reject the vehicle. He says he didnt accept the goodwill offer as he wasnt to 
blame. And he thinks it is unfair that he still owes Black Horse nearly £30,000 after the VT 
even though the vehicle has been sold. Hes also concerned about the impact of all this on 
his credit record.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint but 
my reasons werent quite the same as the investigators and Id considered some additional 
issues and new evidence. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see my 
provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision so I 
issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2023. Ive set out what I decided provisionally (and 
why) below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
As both parties provided a good deal of evidence I had to summarise things. I explained that 
the rules of our service allow me to do this. And I assured the parties, if I didnt mention 
every single point thats been raised, its not because I hadnt thought about it. I had 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us but I was going to concentrate on what 
I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall.
I was satisfied that Black Horse supplied this vehicle to Mr P under a HPA and it was obliged 
(under the CRA) to ensure that the motorhome was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I said what amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual 
circumstances. The quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. And goods need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory. 
In the case of a used vehicle, I thought it reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at the 
point of supply into account. This vehicle was around four years old with about 20,000 miles 
on the clock when Mr P got it. It cost nearly £40,000 and Mr P agreed (under the terms of 
the HPA) to repay nearly £60,000, including interest, over 120 months at about £500 a 
month.What went wrong?
I noted Mr P says this vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality/mis-sold because he
found wheels were misaligned, tyres were worn, there was damage to the rear door and
bumper, there was also something wrong with the suspension and an internal bed and the
service history contained information about another vehicle. 
I thought it looked as if Mr P accepted the dealers offer to pay for tracking and that resolved 
any misalignment so I didnt think I need to address this further. I also considered the service 
history issue was resolved fairly quickly - a third party who did the work in question appears 
to have simply put the wrong vehicle registration on the paperwork. That party confirmed the 
relevant work was done to this particular motorhome so there seemed to be no significant 
impact on its service history as a result.
I wasnt persuaded its likely there was a significant problem with the tyres as the motorhome
passed an MOT on 6 September 2022. I saw one damaged tyre was listed as an advisory 
but the dealer said this was replaced before supply and I had no reason to doubt that. I was 
satisfied that all of the tyres were considered roadworthy on the date of the MOT - which was 
six days before supply. And I couldnt fairly find the vehicle was faulty on those grounds.
I was unable to see the rear damage that Mr P reported on photographs supplied but I 
thought all parties seem to acknowledge that there is some cosmetic damage present. The 
dealer initially stated that this wasnt there when the vehicle was supplied and it had cctv 
footage to prove this but couldnt provide the relevant recording. Black Horse appears to 
accept the relevant damage was probably there at the point of supply - based on 
photographs Mr P took when he viewed the vehicle  which Black Horse said shows that he  
was aware of the damage and accepted it. I spoke to Mr P and he told me thats not right  
he says he pointed out the damage to a salesman and the dealer agreed to fix this before 
collection. Mr P had nothing in writing to confirm this unfortunately - such as a text message 
or email. 
I couldnt be certain what happened when Mr P acquired this vehicle and I thought it was 
reasonable to look at the paperwork completed at the relevant time. Id seen a checklist that 
suggested there were no outstanding exterior issues. And I was satisfied that Mr P signed a 
separate (one page) form on the 12 September 2022 to confirm that he had received a full 
demonstration and explanation of the motorhome and everything appears to be in full 
working order. I recognised Mr P said he wasnt shown round the vehicle on collection and 
he doesnt recall signing this form but I found it difficult to reconcile that with the  documents.
I was satisfied that Mr P was taking on a relatively significant financial commitment here and 
I thought it reasonable to expect a consumer to look through what theyre being asked to 
sign fairly carefully in this situation. I was satisfied that Mr P had the opportunity to inspect 
this motorhome some days before and on collection. On balance, I thought it was more likely 
than not he had noticed there was some damage present - including cosmetic damage to the 
rear. And, if he agreed with the dealer that this would be fixed, Id expect him to check the 
work had been done when he went to collect the vehicle. When I asked Mr P why he 
accepted the motorhome with the damage still present, he told me he trusted the dealer had 
repaired it and didnt check until later. I thought that seemed at odds with the form he signed 
confirming the vehicle was in good working order.
For me to find Mr P should have been allowed to reject this vehicle, Id have to be satisfied
that hes shown it was faulty when it was supplied and it would have been reasonable for
Black Horse to take the motorhome back. Based on the information Id seen, I couldnt
reasonably conclude thats the case. I didnt have enough evidence to find there was a fault
with the suspension. I thought the tracking and service history issues were resolved within a
reasonable time and Mr P accepted that. I didnt think it likely the tyres were faulty. And I was minded to find it more likely than not Mr P was aware that a bed wasnt perfect and 
there was cosmetic damage to the rear of the vehicle - but I thought he was probably 
prepared to accept that at the time.
I appreciated Mr P may have changed his mind later and wanted to reject the vehicle. But I 
wasnt persuaded, on the evidence Id seen, that there are enough fair and reasonable 
grounds to find he was entitled to do so. I thought Black Horse took reasonable steps to 
investigate the complaint and the various goodwill offers seemed fair. I couldnt fairly find 
Black Horse should have taken the motorhome back and provided a refund in the 
circumstances.
Ending the finance agreement
I realised Mr P is unhappy with the way the HPA ended  or, more specifically, with the
impact this had on his credit file. He told me Black Horse said it wont pursue him for the VT
balance of nearly £30,000 but a default has been applied to his credit file and this is
impacting his ability to get credit. 
I thought it looked as if Mr P told Black Horse that he couldnt afford the finance repayments 
around the time Black Horse said he couldnt reject the vehicle. When a borrower like Mr P 
tells a lender hes having financial problems, we expect the financial business to provide a 
positive and sympathetic response. Id seen contact notes supplied by Black Horse, which 
seem to be reasonably detailed and in keeping with events. It looks as if Black Horse asked 
Mr P for more information at the time and said it was open to agreeing a repayment plan. I 
didnt think that was unreasonable.
I couldnt see that Mr P provided any additional information about his finances. It appears he
decided to VT the agreement instead. I asked Mr P about this and he told me there was
no affordability issue when he took out the HPA and he didnt have a reduction in income
after that. He was affected by cost of living increases and it was this, combined with a
deterioration in his health (that made it more difficult to drive the vehicle) plus the responses
from Black Horse and the dealer when he raised quality issues, which all contributed to his
decision to VT.
Based on what Id seen, I didnt have enough evidence to reasonably find Mr P was 
struggling to meet his repayments sustainably here at the relevant time. I explained it was 
open to Mr P to provide more evidence about that in any response to my provisional decision 
if he wanted to. However, on the current evidence, I thought it was more likely than not Mr P 
had simply changed his mind and no longer wanted the vehicle. So, I went on to consider 
whether Black Horse gave him enough information about his options at that time.
The right to VT this sort of finance is provided under section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (CCA). This says a borrower can end the agreement at any time by giving notice.
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the financial consequences of terminating under section 99
 in summary, the borrower remains liable for half of the total amount payable along with any
outstanding liability under the finance at the point of termination. I was satisfied this is 
reflected in the terms of the HPA that Mr P signed which says (insofar as its relevant) you 
have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you make your 
payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount 
payable under the agreement, that is [the VT amount of approximately £30,000] .
Id also seen the VT form that Mr P signed. I thought this made it fairly clear how much 
would remain owing (the VT amount above) and hed need to repay this within 30 days (or 
make reasonable arrangements to do so after that time). And, if he didnt, Black Horse may 
pass the debt on to a third-party and inform credit reference agencies, which could make it 
difficult to arrange credit in the future. I was satisfied that Black Horse had made Mr P reasonably aware of the VT implications and I thought he had enough information to decide 
if he wanted to take this option.
I also gave some thought as to whether Black Horse should have offered Mr P another 
termination option - commonly referred to as voluntary surrender (VS). This process is not
set out under the CCA in the same way as VT, but lenders can allow a borrower to end a
finance agreement in this way and we sometimes consider it appropriate to do so. 
Under VS the customer returns the vehicle which is sold by the lender and the sale proceeds 
are applied to reduce the amount owed. The sale proceeds here were less than the VT 
amount so I couldnt see that applying this to the sum owed under the finance would have 
put Mr P in a better position than ending the HPA by way of VT. I realised Mr P considers 
Black Horse should apply the sale proceeds to reduce the VT amount now but I explained 
that lenders arent obliged to that - and I couldnt reasonably require Black Horse to do so 
here.
Reporting the HPA on Mr Ps credit file
I was satisfied that Black Horse offered to consider a repayment plan but Mr P chose not to
take this further. As far as I could see, he hasnt made any payments towards the HPA or the
VT amount outstanding and Black Horse took steps to default the account. I didnt think a
default is inappropriate in these circumstances. Black Horse told Mr P the default will stay on 
his credit record for six years but it wont actively pursue the debt which I thought didnt 
seem unreasonable. I could see why Mr P is concerned about the impact of this adverse  
information on his credit record. But lenders, like Black Horse, have a responsibility to report 
information accurately to the credit reference agencies and I couldnt fairly find it was wrong 
of Black Horse to report a default here.
Responses to my provisional decision
I asked the parties to let me have any further submissions by 28 July 2023 and Id take that 
into account when I made my final decision. Both parties have now responded. Black Horse 
has accepted my provisional conclusions with nothing further to add and Mr P remains 
unhappy. 
In summary, Mr P says he didnt change his mind and seek to reject the vehicle. He points 
out the damage may be seen on the photos supplied originally by the dealer which should be 
taken into account. He said he regrets not checking if the dealer had carried out the repairs 
on collection but he doesnt think its unreasonable to expect the dealer to sort out these 
issues out in the first place. He feels the dealer has not told the truth - if it had video footage 
showing the motorhome wasnt damaged they would have kept it. And, as for the tracking, it 
was noticeable that the steering wheel was out of alignment albeit the cost of fixing this was 
refunded  and it was only after he decided to return the vehicle that the dealer replaced the 
front tyres.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for their responses. I want to assure them that I have 
considered everything carefully. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but nothing thats been said or 
sent to us has persuaded me to change my mind. Ive taken on board what he said about 
who took the photographs of the vehicle before it was supplied but that doesnt make a 
material difference to my provisional conclusions. For the reasons Ive given already, I cant fairly find Black Horse has done something wrong 
here. Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ps health issues and I have sympathy for the situation 
he finds himself in now but I am not persuaded that I can fairly require Black Horse to do 
anything further. I realise this isnt the outcome Mr P wanted but hes not obliged to accept 
what Ive said - in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter by any alternative 
means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman