DRN-3381353
Complaint
Mr S and Ms S are unhappy with what Santander UK Plc (Santander) has agreed to do to 
put things right after they complained about unfair charges on their overdraft.
Background
As a result of our adjudicators involvement, Santander agreed that it should refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mr S and Ms S overdraft from January 2020 and it 
proposed to reduce what Mr S and Ms S owed by this amount as well as set up a repayment 
plan to repay the remaining amount.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr S and Ms S complaint and he thought that what 
Santander had agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. Mr S and Ms S didnt agree so the complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S and Ms S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
their complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Santander has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue adding 
interest, fees and charges to Mr S and Ms Ss account as it ought to have realised the 
overdraft was unsustainable at this stage. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges added it to Mr S and Ms S overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Santander 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr S and Ms S will be left with an outstanding balance to repay even after the 
credits theyve made and they will now be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied. But while Mr S and Ms S will be left with an outstanding balance to repay and they 
might be unhappy with this, Santander has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr S and Ms S believes that Santander should do more. As I understand it, theyre unhappy 
that any fees at all were added to their overdraft because Santander failed to send them text 
message alerts between February 2018 and December 2019. 
Ive considered what Mr S and Ms S have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that any failure to send text messages doesnt somehow make 
the charges Santander added illegal as Mr and Ms S appear to be suggesting, as the terms 
and conditions of Mr S and Ms S account did permit these charges. Secondly, and most 
importantly, the period Mr S and Ms S have referred to  February 2018 to December 2019 
 was when it was mandatory for a bank to send text message alerts regarding unarranged 
or unplanned overdraft usage to customers. Prior to this while some banks did send text 
messages, for arranged overdraft usage, where mobile phone numbers were available, it 
wasnt a mandatory requirement to send them. 
Ive seen that Mr S and Ms S now say that they didnt have an arranged overdraft during the 
period concerned. But the information Ive seen suggests that theyve had an arranged 
overdraft with a limit of £650 for a number of years. Furthermore, its clear that theyve been 
charged arranged overdraft fees during this period too. Finally, Id also question how and 
why Mr S and Ms S allowed their account balance to be overdrawn as long and for the 
amount they did, if they genuinely believed that they didnt have an arranged overdraft. 
So overall Im satisfied the available evidence demonstrates that Mr S and Ms S did have an 
arranged overdraft with a limit of £650 between February 2018 and December 2019. And 
this means that Santander didnt fail to do something it was supposed to when it didnt send 
Mr S and Ms S text message alerts about their overdraft usage prior to January 2020.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr S and Ms S  reworking their account so that all the interest, fees and 
charges added since January 2020 are removed and setting up a repayment plan for the 
remaining balance  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr S and Ms S to decide 
whether they wish to accept Santanders offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr S and Ms S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
their complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman