DRN-4057285
The complaint
Mr A complains Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) took too long to settle his claim and that he 
had to pay his insurance premiums when he was without a car.
Covea are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the intermediary. As Covea have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Covea includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
On 4 May 2022 Mr A was involved in a collision with two third-party vehicles. He made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy that he held with Covea.
Covea accepted the claim and on 11 May his car was considered a total loss.
As Mr As car was subject to a finance agreement, Covea asked Mr A to obtain an 
outstanding balance figure from the finance company so it could settle the outstanding 
finance. Mr A sent it and the finance was settled by Covea.
Mr A complained that Covea had caused a delay in settling the finance and that he would 
like a refund of premiums paid whilst he didnt have a car. Covea did not accept it was 
responsible for a delay but said it had not done enough to assist Mr A in obtaining the 
outstanding balance figure. It also accepted it misadvised the date the settlement would be 
paid. It offered £150 in compensation for its shortcomings. 
As Mr A was not happy with Covea, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said the £150 
compensation was fair for the delay in settling the outstanding finance, but Covea should 
pay one month interest on the finance agreement. And they said as Mr A was without a hire 
car for a month longer than he should have been, Covea should pay him £10 per day for 
loss of use of his car for the duration of the delay.
As Covea is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
I looked at the timeline of Mr As claim and found that the incident happened on 4 May 2022 
and Covea paid the outstanding balance to Mr As finance company on 2 August 2022. This 
is three months in total.
I saw it took Covea one week from the date of the incident to confirm the car was to be 
classed as a total loss. As Mr A had said he was concerned he may have been targeted and 
the accident staged, there was then a period of four weeks where Covea completed its 
investigations into the incident. 
The claim was cleared of fraud concerns on 8 June 2022 and on this date a settlement offer 
was made to Mr A. It was not accepted straight away. Covea said it made its first request to 
Mr A for an outstanding finance figure on this date.
I saw Covea contacted Mr A by email on 17 June 2022 to ask him to obtain an outstanding 
balance from the finance company. Mr A provided this on 5 July 2022. 
Covea accept there were delays in dealing with the claim due to not having the outstanding 
balance figure from the finance company. It said although it did not agree that it had caused 
any delays with the finance company, it accepted it could have been more proactive in 
chasing the outstanding balance after it had requested it from Mr A. However it said the onus 
was on Mr A to provide the information requested.
It said when the outstanding balance was received, it attempted to contact Mr A to discuss 
the settlement terms of his claim, but the call was not answered. It said it should have called 
again, but this was not followed up.
On 29 July 2022 Covea confirmed to Mr A that the outstanding finance balance was to be 
paid by close of business that day. But it was not cleared until 2 August 2022. It accepted it 
had misinformed Mr A and should have advised it usually takes three to five working days.
I think the offer of £150 compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint and I 
wont be asking Covea to increase the amount. 
As I saw there was a slight delay in making payment to the finance company, and because it 
was not paid for almost four weeks after the outstanding balance was provided, I think it is 
fair that any interest that was accrued during this time on the finance agreement before 
payment was received should be paid by Covea. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and on page 11 it says;
Arrangement fee
If either you or We cancel within 14 days of receiving your policy documentation We will 
charge you a fee of £30 plus the cost for the amount of time you have been covered unless 
you have made a total loss claim in which case no refund will be given and all premiums will 
be due.
As Mr As car had been classed as a total loss, this confirms that under the terms and 
conditions of Mr As policy Covea do not need to make a refund of any premiums paid and 
all premiums were still due.
Our investigator felt that Covea should pay Mr A loss of use at £10 per day for the duration 
of the delay, which they thought was one month. I looked at Mr As policy and saw in Section 
two it says 
2 Damage to car
What is not covered under section 2
Costs resulting from loss of use of the car.
A courtesy car was provided as per the conditions of Mr As policy. I do not think Covea 
need to further provide a loss of use payment because it is not part of the terms of the policy 
and also I dont agree that it caused a delay of one month. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and intend to require Covea to pay, on receipt 
of evidence from the finance company, the final one months interest amount. Covea should 
also pay the £150 it has offered as compensation if this has not already been paid.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr A responded to say 
He disagreed with the provisional decision. He feels the decision made by the 
investigator was fair and the right sum.
He supplied evidence of calls he made to Covea chasing the settlement at different times 
of the day on 28 July 2022. And copies of emails between himself and Covea in June 
2022 when he was in the process of agreeing the claim settlement amount 
He said he paid his car finance payments in May and June despite not having a car. He 
said as Covea didnt settle his finance until 2 August 22 the July 2022 payment was also 
due from him, and he didnt think this was fair. 
Covea responded to say it accepted the decision. It said it had emailed Mr A to request the 
evidence from either himself or the finance company regarding any amount of interest 
charged and said once received it would raise the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr As comments
The evidence provided by Mr A showed on 28 July 2022 he made a number of calls to 
Covea to chase the settlement of his finance and was kept on hold for long periods of time. I 
agree this was inconvenient and will have caused frustration to him.
Mr A would still be liable for any agreement he had made regarding finance on his car until 
the settlement was made by Covea. Any payments due still needed to be paid. I saw 
evidence from Mr A that his  finance company explained to him monthly payments were still 
to be paid in July 2022, but he would be due a refund of any over payment after settlement 
was made. 
The only delay that I can hold Covea solely responsible for was the four days between 29 
July 2022 and 2 August 2022, which is the time when the settlement payment to the finance 
company was delayed due to it misadvising him. 
As detailed in my provisional decision the time taken after Mr A made the claim in May 2022 
included; investigations into potential fraud, negotiations around settlement amount, 
obtaining the finance settlement etc. These were activities that needed to happen.
I do not agree that Covea should pay Mr A anything for loss of use of his car because of a 
delay.
I maintain my view that  £150 is a fair amount for the delay in settling the finance and the 
lack of communication in July 2022. It should also repay any additional interest accrued in 
the last month of Mr As finance agreement. It should be noted that £150 is the same amount 
as our investigator felt was fair for the delays caused.
I therefore maintain my provisional decision and require Covea to pay, on receipt of 
evidence from the finance company, the final one months interest amount. Covea should 
also pay the £150 it has offered as compensation if this has not already been paid.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance Plc to pay Mr A any interest charged in the final month of his 
finance agreement. And to pay £150 compensation if it has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman