DRN-3231031
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about an annual income drawdown charge applied by IPS Pensions
Limited trading as James Hay Partnership (James Hay) to his self invested personal pension
(SIPP).
What happened
Mr P completed James Hays Internal Transfer to Modular iSIPP Form on 14 November
2013. It said, amongst other things, that before signing the declaration, Mr P should read the
terms and conditions and the charges schedule carefully. In signing the declaration Mr P
accepted the terms and conditions which included the charges schedule.
On 12 February 2021 Mr P complained to James Hay about the annual income drawdown
charge that had been debited from his SIPP. James Hay responded on 18 February 2021.
James Hay didnt uphold the complaint. It said the charge formed part of its terms and
conditions and was payable whether Mr P took a regular income or not.
The matter wasnt settled and it was referred to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. But he didnt uphold it.
The investigator referred to the charges schedule. It set out that the annual income
drawdown charge was £150, payable annually in advance and would be applied once
benefits are crystallised  even if no income taken.
Mr P had crystallised his pension benefits in 2009 when hed taken his tax free cash and
placed the remaining fund in the drawdown account. The investigator said James Hay was
entitled to apply the charge in subsequent years as the terms and conditions allowed for it.
The investigator thought it had been made clear that the charge would apply once pension
benefits had been provided and even if no further benefits were taken in subsequent years.
The investigator didnt agree that James Hay hadnt done anything for the fee. Although no
drawdown payments had been processed for Mr P, James Hays duties included
administering the SIPP, holding the investments on their platform and providing Mr P with
annual statements.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. He queried what James Hay had done in return
specifically for the annual income drawdown charge. In response the investigator referred to,
amongst other things, the Frequently asked questions section of the charges schedule and
what it said about what the charges for drawing an income covered.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the complaint shouldnt be upheld and for
the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add. Although Ive read and considered
everything Ive concentrated on what I think is central to the complaint.
Like the investigator, Ive considered if James Hay was entitled to levy the annual income
drawdown charge. And whether Mr P was made aware of the charge.
Section 4.1 of the terms and conditions sets out the services that James Hay will provide.
And section 12 refers to the charges schedule. It forms part of James Hays terms and
conditions and which Mr P accepted when the SIPP was set up. As the investigator pointed
out, the annual income drawdown charge is shown. And that it will apply once benefits are
crystallised  even if nil income is taken. As the terms and conditions of the SIPP included
that charge, I think James Hay was entitled to levy it.
It seems that Mr P hadnt noticed that the annual income drawdown charge had been
applied for several years. When he did become aware of it, he complained.
Although Mr P may have overlooked the charge, I think it was made clear to him. As Ive
said, he knew that the charges schedule would form part of the terms and conditions relating
to his SIPP. When he signed the declaration to transfer to the SIPP he was asked to read
the charges schedule carefully. It was divided up into sections and various fees were set out.
The annual income drawdown charge was set out on page 4, under Benefits and payments.
I think Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of the charge and that it would be levied
even if he wasnt taking income from his SIPP. The charge would also have been shown on
Mr Ps annual statements even if he didnt notice it for some years.
I understand Mr Ps point about being charged a separate annual fee for the administration
of the SIPP. But the annual income drawdown charge is a flat fee and doesnt just apply if a
drawdown request is made. Drawdown is a feature of the product and a facility that is
available to Mr P even if he hasnt yet taken any further benefits from his SIPP and so
James Hay hasnt had to process any drawdown payments for him. The fee hes paying isnt
for taking any income  hes in a drawdown arrangement and thats why the fee, which isnt
directly referable to actual work carried out for an individual investor, is charged.
As the investigator recognised, Mr P might consider the charge high for the service hes
currently using and when hes not taking any income payments from his SIPP. But I dont
think that means that James Hay cant charge the fee. I dont think the fee is unreasonable
or unfair.
I understand James Hay also offered Mr P a free transfer to another SIPP provider if he was
unhappy with the charges being applied to his SIPP. I think Mr P has now moved away from
James Hay.
I dont think James Hay needs to refund any fees to Mr P or take any other steps in
connection with his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 Lesley Stead
Ombudsman