DRN-3225141
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr C and Ms M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2016, Mr C and Ms M were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr C and Ms M decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In January 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr C and Ms Ms behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr C and Ms M to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding through the Feed in Tariff (FIT) income and 
electricity savings it generated; and
the system would result in significant savings on electricity bills; and
the financial benefits would cover the finance payments; and
the cash price agreed was £8,263.50 but the real cost was £12,991.60 under the 
loan agreement.
Shawbrook didnt issue their final response within eight weeks. So, Mr C and Ms Ms 
complaint was referred to this service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and Ms M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr C and Ms M cant recall seeing the solar quote or read and understand it; and
the system was said to be self-funding within the loan term; and
the system returns and benefits are substantially less than predicted in the quote.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C and Ms M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C and Ms M could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
Ms M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr C and Ms Ms recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mr C and Ms M has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,263.50. They 
have suggested this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £12,991.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr C and Ms M makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £8,263.50. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,263.50. The total amount of credit is £8,163.50 and goes on to 
show that the total amount payable would be £12,991.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,263.50, it would cost 
Mr C and Ms M more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr C and Ms M have alleged that they were told his monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr C and Ms M 
has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C and Ms M could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C and Ms M could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £116.67.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C and Ms M could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity saving is £206.19 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Mr C and Ms M the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £1,058.29. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C and Ms M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £107.43. For each year of the 10-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.43, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C and Ms M could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C and Ms M that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr C and Ms M was told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
Page 18 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 years. This shows that 
by year 10, the overall benefits that Mr C and Ms M could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C and Ms M that the system would pay for 
itself by year 10, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr C and Ms M The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1,740 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr C and Ms Ms FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 1,757 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C and Ms 
M couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C and Ms M entered into 
the contract.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr C and Ms M agreed to enter into the contract for the system. 
Ive been provided with confirmation that the solar quote was emailed to Mr C and Ms M 
following the original sales meeting. I have carefully considered the points made by the 
representative along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I 
remain satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mrs B 
and Mr B agreed to enter into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C and Ms 
M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman