DRN-3305649
The complaint
Mr C complains that despite confirming a payment holiday had been approved Tesco
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank closed and defaulted his loan.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr C contacted Tesco Bank in November 2019 and advised he would have trouble making 
his next two loan payments. Tesco Bank agreed to accept reduced payments of £100 (about 
25% of the normal monthly payment) for December 2019 and January 2020.
Mr C says that he asked Tesco Bank to amend his address in January 2020.
Mr C made his full monthly payments in February, March and April 2020. Mr C then applied 
online for a loan payment holiday. Tesco Bank has advised the information provided online 
as part of the payment holiday application says its not applicable for accounts that are in 
arrears and that customers should instead get in touch.
Tesco Bank sent Mr C a text message that confirmed his payment holiday had been 
accepted. Tesco Banks text message said it would be in touch to let him know when the 
payment holiday would end.
Tesco Bank says the text message was sent in error and that the payment holiday hadnt 
been approved. Tesco Bank went on to send arrears letters and a default notice to the 
address it had on file for Mr C. The loan was ultimately closed and a default recorded on Mr 
Cs credit file.
Mr C complained and Tesco Bank apologised for sending him a text message that confirmed 
his payment holiday had been approved. Tesco Bank also apologised that someone had 
incorrectly amended Mr Cs name on its systems. But Tesco Bank said Mr C asked to 
amend his address in July 2020 and that its website provided guidance for customers in 
arrears. Tesco Bank paid Mr C £135 to apologise for the error with his name and its text 
message.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They uphold 
Mr Cs complaint and asked Tesco Bank to increase the total settlement to £235. Tesco 
Bank agreed, but Mr C asked to appeal and said he doesnt agree its fair for Tesco Bank to 
record a default on his credit file. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr Cs 
complaint. I dont agree its fair for Tesco Bank to record a default on Mr Cs credit file after it 
sent him a text message to confirm a payment holiday had been approved.
Tesco Bank says Mr C shouldve been aware he didnt qualify for a payment holiday 
because his loan account was in arrears. Tesco Bank says its website provided a warning of 
that nature. Although it hasnt sent any evidence to support that, I accept the website did 
most likely have some information about arrears. But I also think its likely Tesco Banks 
website provided a range of information for customers wishing to apply for a payment 
holiday. And its clear Mr C didnt realise he wasnt eligible as he proceeded with the 
payment holiday application.
I dont agree its fair or reasonable for Tesco Bank to rely on Mr C as the borrower to decide 
whether he met its criteria for a payment holiday. It was Tesco Banks responsibility to 
assess Mr Cs application and confirm the outcome. Tesco Bank sent Mr C a text message 
to confirm the payment holiday was approved. I think Mr C could reasonably rely on the text 
message as confirmation of Tesco Banks position. Im satisfied a targeted text message 
confirming the payment holiday was approved wouldve held more weight than pre 
application information contained on Tesco Banks website.
The problem was compounded by the fact Mr Cs address was wrong on Tesco Banks 
systems. Mr C says he changed it in January 2020, but the call transcript Ive seen from that 
date doesnt include any reference to a request of that nature. Tesco Bank says the first time 
it received a request to change Mr Cs address came in July 2020, at the point he 
complained. As Mr C had moved, Tesco Banks arrears letters and default notice werent 
received by him. That meant Mr C was unaware of what had happened with the loan and the 
mounting arrears.
I also think its reasonable to note that Tesco Banks text message in April 2020 said it would 
be in touch to tell Mr C when his payment holiday had ended. I think that adds weight to Mr 
Cs claim that he thought a payment holiday was in place and was waiting for Tesco Bank to 
confirm when payments would be due again. I further note that whilst Mr C had made 
reduced payments in December 2019 and January 2020, he reverted to the full payment in 
the following three months. Mr C says he wouldve continued to make monthly repayments if 
he hadnt received Tesco Banks text message and I think thats most likely the case.
I dont agree that the default recorded on Mr Cs credit file is a fair reflection of how he 
handled his loan. The default doesnt reflect that Tesco Bank specifically notified Mr C his 
payment holiday had been approved and that it would contact him to tell him when payments 
needed to be made again. If Mr C is in a position to resume payments again, in line with the 
original loan agreement, I think the fairest approach would be for Tesco Bank to reinstate the 
loan. In response to this decision, Mr C should confirm whether he wants to reinstate the 
loan and restart monthly payments.
Tesco Bank has agreed to pay a total of £235 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its actions. I think thats fair in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint so I dont 
propose to increase the settlement.
If Mr C isnt in a position to restart loan payments then I think the fairest approach is to leave 
the default in place.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to take into account when reaching my final decision. Mr C responded and said he was still receiving contact from debt collectors about the 
outstanding balance. Mr C also said the worry had led him to make substantial repayments 
to the outstanding balance. Mr C confirmed he wants to continue making the normal 
repayments without the default remaining on his credit file. 
Tesco indicated it intended to respond but we didnt hear back from it by the deadline given 
in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased Mr C is willing to accept the resolution I set out in the provisional decision. As 
neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to settle as follows: 
- Tesco Bank should reinstate the loan account and take steps to claim the monthly 
payment
- Tesco Bank may need to consider extending the term to ensure Mr Cs monthly 
payments remain affordable
- Tesco Bank should take steps to remove all adverse information recorded from April 
2020 to date. That includes arrears and the default
- If Tesco Bank has sold the debt to a third party, it should take steps to retrieve it or 
work with the new debt owner to put the settlement in place
- Pay Mr C a total of £235 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman