DRN-3481305
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the extent of the increase of his premium for a lifetime pet policy 
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr L bought his policy in November 2018 for his dog. At the renewal in 2020, Mr L noticed 
his premium had risen from £274.11 to £456.36. And Mr L has since told us his premium for 
2021 is £625.75.
He considered these to be very substantial increases and complained to Aviva. Aviva didnt 
think it had done anything wrong and also explained that Mr L had made a claim in the 
amount of £1,959.90 which also would have influenced the premium increase. Mr L then 
wanted the amount of cover to reduce but Aviva explained it could only do if he took out a 
new policy meaning any pre-existing conditions then wouldnt be covered.
Unhappy Mr L brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Aviva 
should have done more at the time Mr L bought his policy to explain that his premium could 
increase significantly given it was a lifetime policy.  And because it didnt, it should pay Mr L 
£200. Aviva thought its policy terms explained the matter adequately so it didnt agree it 
should pay any compensation to Mr L.
So, on that basis Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
This service isnt the regulator of insurers like Aviva, the Financial Conduct Authority is. So, 
we cant tell insurers what premium price it should charge for the risks that are to be 
covered. Thats every insurers commercial discretion and its not something this service 
would interfere with. Neither can we tell Aviva to reduce the cover as Mr L suggested without 
any break in cover or indeed demand that it shouldnt insist Mr L takes out a new policy in 
those circumstances meaning pre-existing conditions wont then be covered. 
As with all pet policies they are sold on whats called a non-advised basis. That means the 
insurer or the intermediary marketing the policy provides no advice to the customer other 
than whats written in the policy, the summary and any other information documents about 
the policy. This is set out in the duties the insurer must follow in ICOBS the specific 
regulations covering this.
Mr L chose lifetime cover for his dog so that all conditions would be covered for his dogs life. 
Mr Ls policy was sold by an intermediary.  Ive looked at what he was told when he took out 
his policy and it said the following:
It is important to note policy terms and conditions can change over time, for
example in addition to any excess amount payable you will be required to
contribute to the cost of treatment once your pet reaches 10 years of age (7 years
for selected breeds). Additionally, premiums will increase due to factors such as
your pets age, claims history and our view of the future costs of providing cover.
This doesnt fully explain what can happen with lifetime policies if like Mr L, you have had to 
make a significant claim. And whilst it does say the premium will increase it doesnt suggest 
the extent of the percentage increase Mr L unfortunately faced. This increase was significant 
in that he started off in 2019 with a premium of £274.11, which then increased to £456.36 in 
2020 and then £625.75 in 2021. So effectively Mr L was being expected to find an additional 
£200 per year approximately to fund his premiums. The initial increase was 65% which for 
anyone is significantly substantial. And that level of significant increase is not appropriately 
explained by the detail above. I consider it should have been.
Obviously, Aviva cant provide exact information on premium increases, but a clearer 
indication of the possible extent of the increases should have been provided. That would 
have ensured less of a shock for Mr L and indeed more of an opportunity for him to budget 
accordingly as his dog aged.
 
Theres no evidence before to say that had Mr L known the extent of the premium increase, 
he wouldnt have bought this lifetime policy. But now hes in the serious position concerning 
the affordability of his cover. And of course, changing to another provider means any pre-
existing conditions cant be covered. 
Therefore, I consider payment of compensation from Aviva to Mr L to account for the shock 
of the increase is fair and reasonable. I also consider the amount of £200 is also reasonable 
and its similar to what I have awarded in previous similar cases.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation 
only.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr L the sum of £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman