DRN-3112720
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) lent 
to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint that I summarise below.
Miss B was given a loan of £1,500 by EDL in January 2017. The loan was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of around £138. The total amount payable, including interest was 
just over £3,324.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
EDL needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that EDL was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
in order to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan.
EDL carried out some checks before it gave the loan to Miss B. This included asking for 
details of her financial circumstances and acquiring a credit report, reviewing bank 
statements and a job check. EDL assessed Miss Bs regular expenses and calculated the 
minimum amount she had to repay her creditors each month.
Id seen a summary of the information gather by EDL at the time. Miss Bs credit report 
shows a total revolving balance outstanding of around £1,522 from 6 credit accounts. Whilst 
Miss B had made some late payments, I didnt think that her credit report overall ought 
reasonably to have caused EDL any additional concerns. 
From what Id seen, the purpose of Miss Bs loan was debt consolidation. The net monthly 
cost of the loan would have slightly exceeded the minimum amounts that EDL calculated 
Miss B had to repay existing creditors. But I think it would have been reasonable for EDL to 
have considered that its loan could have enabled Miss B to potentially make significant 
inroads into her existing debts. 
I also considered the bank statements from Miss Bs account with Barclays that EDL 
reviewed at the time. Miss B was sometimes spending more than EDL had assessed. But I 
didnt think EDL would reasonably have thought the bank statements it reviewed indicated 
that Miss B was experiencing significant financial distress - such as serious gambling or 
repeated borrowing from multiple short-term lenders, or frequently returned requests for 
payment  all of which might have suggested to EDL that Miss B was having serious 
difficulties managing her money or that she might be dependent on high cost borrowing.
Miss B was making transfers from her Barclays account, into and out of other accounts. The 
purpose of these transfers is not very clear from the statements, but it does seem that at 
times, Miss B went overdrawn on her Barclays account and then transferred funds
into that account to improve the account balance. I accept that Miss B says she was 
transferring funds out of her Barclays account in order to pay other expenses, but I thought it 
was equally likely that these transfers in and out of her account could reasonably have 
suggested to EDL that Miss B was managing her money quite carefully, and that she had 
other funds available with which to occasionally top up her account when necessary. 
In the circumstances, I thought the checks that EDL carried out when Miss B took her loan 
are likely to have been reasonable and proportionate. I couldnt fairly say that EDL ought 
reasonably to have concluded from its checks that Miss B was having such serious problems 
managing her money that it ought to decline her application for the loan. Miss B might not 
agree with the way that the lender assessed her application. But I couldnt fairly say that I 
thought EDL acted irresponsibly when it provided the loan to her. 
I hadnt seen anything which made me think that EDL acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss B in some other way. I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint and I invited 
the parties to provide any further evidence or comments before I made my final decision.
I have not seen any new information from EDL in response to my provisional findings. Miss 
B has provided a lot of further information including bank statements and other documents 
which she says supports her complaint. I have reviewed everything that has been sent to us 
but in summary, Miss B says she had poor mental health, was heavily in debt, struggling to 
hold down her job and always switching money around in her accounts. Miss B says her 
poor mental health meant she was spending impulsively, missing repayments and was 
always in a negative balance. She feels she wasnt in her right mind to take a loan. Miss B 
says she explained her situation to EDL, but it still approved the loan.
Miss B has also provided information which she says shows she was in rental and council 
tax arrears; and she has sent a list of unpaid direct debits and returned standing orders 
which she says are from her other accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Miss B for responding to my provisional decision with further information.
I have looked at all the additional information that Miss B has provided, and I have thought 
very carefully about everything that both she and EDL have told us. On balance, Miss Bs 
further information does not change my mind about her complaint. 
I cant fairly say that I think EDL ought reasonably to have had additional concerns about 
Miss Bs financial position, based on the information that it gathered at the time. Or that the 
information gathered ought reasonably led EDL to conclude that the loan application should 
be declined.
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for EDL to ask Miss B for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing to 
the loan. I think that it was reasonable for EDL to make its lending decision based on the 
information Miss B had provided and what it found in proportionate checks.  In the 
circumstances, I dont think greater checks, such as requesting statements from Miss Bs 
other accounts or requiring a rent ledger or proof of her council tax position, were 
appropriate at the time. I appreciate that Miss B says her financial situation was much worse. But this doesnt appear 
to be something she shared with EDL at that time, or something that I think proportionate 
checks would have uncovered. Miss B has told us that she did tell EDL about her true 
financial situation. But I havent seen enough evidence to confirm that EDL was made aware 
that Miss B had significant financial difficulties, such that it would be irresponsible to lend to 
her. Miss B has also complained that she was a vulnerable consumer. I am very sorry to 
hear that Miss B was struggling with poor mental health when she applied for her loan. But 
from what Ive seen, I dont think EDL could reasonably have known that she might have 
been a vulnerable consumer when it made its lending decision. And I have not seen enough 
evidence that confirms that EDL was made aware of this possibility at the time. 
I am sorry that Miss B is struggling with financial problems, but on balance, I cant fairly 
conclude that EDL acted irresponsibly or unfairly when it gave her the loan.
I realise that Miss B feels very strongly about her complaint but having carefully considered 
all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen, (including everything sent in response 
to my provisional findings) I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I 
do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman