DRN-3991853
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC Ltd handled a subsidence claim under 
her buildings insurance policy. She says the initial works to stabilise her property werent 
lasting and effective as her property has suffered further subsidence.
Zurich are the underwriters of this policy, i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the loss adjuster, an agent of Zurich. As Zurich have accepted it is accountable for 
the actions of the loss adjuster, in my decision, any reference to Zurich includes the actions 
of the loss adjuster.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
In 2019, Ms K made a claim on her building insurance policy when cracks appeared 
in her property. 
Zurich accepted the claim and said the subsidence damage was caused by moisture 
extraction by roots altering the moisture content of the clay subsoil, resulting in 
volume changes, which in turn have affected the affected foundations.
To deal with the cause of the subsidence, an oak tree owned by the Local Authority 
was reduced, Ms Ks own plant was removed, and the defective drains were rectified. 
The property was monitored between September 2019 and April 2021 which Zurich 
said showed the property had stabilised. Repairs were subsequently carried out, and 
a certificate of structural adequacy was issued in September 2021. 
In July 2022, Ms K reported to Zurich that large cracks had reappeared in her home. 
Ms K complained saying the stabilisation and repairs work completed previously had 
lasted less than a year and so, were inadequate.
In its final response letter Zurich said the Local Authority had now agreed for the 
trees affecting Ms Ks property to be removed. It said the repair method used the 
year prior was chosen based on the information available at that point  adding 
Zurich wouldnt have known the damage would return. It said there had been 
avoidable delays with progressing the claim and that the support it provided could 
have been better, so it awarded £500 compensation. 
Ms K remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and said Zurich needed to pay an additional £200 compensation as it 
hadnt shown the latest damage to Ms Ks property was due to a new cause of 
subsidence. And so, he wasnt satisfied Zurich had carried out a lasting and effective 
repair. 
Ms K disagreed  saying she wanted confirmation the trees in question would be 
removed and that her property wouldnt be affected by movement in the future. And 
so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
Zurich has since confirmed that Ms Ks second claim is going to be treated as a 
continuation of the first. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached  Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I need to explain that whilst this claim might have moved on since Zurich issued 
its final response letter, Im only considering events up until the date of it.  
Its not in dispute that Ms Ks property has suffered a reoccurrence of subsidence. But Ms K 
is unhappy because she thinks the damage caused in 2022 could have been avoided had 
Zurich taken different remedial action when she made her first claim for subsidence related 
damage in 2019.
Zurich will be well aware of this Services approach to handling subsidence claims and its 
obligation to ensure any repair is effective and lasting.
So, Ive considered the available evidence I have in respect of the first claim. Zurich has 
given me little in the way of reports or expert opinion from the time. But here it seems 
undisputed the subsidence related damage was said to have been caused by tree roots 
extracting moisture from the subsoil thus changing the composition of it, which caused the 
property to move. An oak tree  owned by the Local Authority was identified as being a 
causal factor in 2019. I note here that this same tree was also identified as a cause in 2022. 
Zurich has said that following the reduction of the oak tree, along with removing a tree/plant 
from Ms Ks property and repairing drainage, the property stabilised. On its face, this sort of 
action seems in keeping with what Ive seen in other similar claims. But whilst I appreciate it 
has said retrospectively that monitoring of the property showed this course of action was the 
right thing to do  as the property had stabilised - cracks reappeared within a year of this 
work. 
Zurich isnt responsible for making sure Ms Ks property never moves again, but it did need 
to make sure any repairs were lasting and effective, and as cracks reappeared within a year, 
Im not persuaded it had carried out a lasting and effective repair. 
Zurich has said an unseasonably hot summer in 2022 triggered further movement and 
damage but it hasnt provided evidence to support this conclusion. And so, in the absence of 
expert evidence from Zurich which shows the stabilisation and repair works it carried out in 
respect of the first claim were most likely going to succeed, Im not satisfied it has 
demonstrated its actions were a lasting and effective repair in the circumstances. So, on 
balance, Im more persuaded the damage to Ms Ks home in 2022 and the distress and 
inconvenience a subsequent claim has caused her, could have been avoided. And Zurich 
needs to recognise this. 
Our Investigator recommended Zurich pay an additional £200 compensation. Keeping in 
mind Zurich has awarded £500 compensation and arranged for Ms K to be in alternative 
accommodation to mitigate some of the inconvenience, Im satisfied an additional £200 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ms K has said shes not been able to sell her property because of the second claim. I dont 
doubt it was her intention to sell the property, but theres no evidence to show shes suffered 
a financial loss  for example, that a sale has fallen through - because of Zurichs actions. 
And as our Investigator said, the policy makes it clear that Zurich wont be liable for any 
reduction of value following a repair. So, I wont be directing Zurich to pay anything in 
respect of this.   
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Ms K an 
additional £200 compensation. If Zurich hasnt already paid Ms K £500 as per its final 
response letter, it must pay this as well. 
Zurich must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman