DRN-4388077
The complaint
Ms F and Mr K complains that One Insurance Limited (One) declined a claim and cancelled 
their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F and Mr K had a motor insurance policy from One covering their car.
When Mr K bought the policy, which is in his name, he declared that the cars owner and 
registered keeper was him. The name on the cars V5 registration document as its registered 
keeper was Ms F.
Their car was stolen in March 2023. They made a claim. One investigated it and found that 
Mr F and Mr K had misrepresented the keeper of the car. Its underwriting criteria meant it 
could only cover cars whose owner/keeper was the proposer, their spouse or a leasing 
company. 
One declined the claim. It cancelled their policy and refunded the premium. It did this 
because it said it couldnt have insured Ms F and Mr K.
Ms F and Mr K brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into Ms F and 
Mr Ks complaint and thought it would be upheld. He thought it was clear Ones acceptance 
criteria meant it wouldnt insure Ms F and Mr K on the basis of the ownership of the car due 
to the nature of their relationship. But he thought theirs was an innocent mistake and so 
Ones decision to turn their claim down on a technicality meant their position wasnt fair. He 
said One should pay the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
One didnt agree. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill explain why.
In its final response One said:
As part of our file checks before your claim can proceed, we request a copy of your 
V5. When reviewing the V5 it was found that the legal owner of the vehicle was the 
named driver on the policy, not yourself as the policy holder as declared when you 
purchased the policy.
On its underwriting criteria it says it accepts:
Vehicle Owner/Keeper: Proposer, Spouse, Leasing Company
When Ms F and Mr K applied for the cover, they said they were in a relationship of:
Common Law Spouse
Ms F and Mr K have provided further information about their relationship and ownership of 
the car. They regard themselves as being in a relationship commonly known as a common 
law marriage. Its my understanding that, although this seems to have no real legal status 
under English law, their relationship is of a nature where they share ownership of their 
assets and regard themselves as being in the same type of relationship as a spousal one, 
even though they recognise that they are not married. 
In correspondence with Ms F and Mr K, and later with this service, One has talked about 
legislation called the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012. This 
legislation deals with customers who misrepresent their status when applying for insurance 
and potentially allows One to void a policy if Ms F and Mr K misrepresented, and as a result 
of that misrepresentation One wouldnt have covered them at all. This is the route One has 
taken with Ms F and Mr K.
It seems to me that from their answers Ms F and Mr K misrepresented an answer about who 
kept their car. I say this because the V5 says Ms F was the registered keeper. But with 
ownership, they both regarded the car as being one of their joint assets.
I understand Ones approach here is that the legislation possibly allows it to void the policy, 
but I regard the basis on which its done this as a technicality. The nature of Ms F and Mr Ks 
relationship seems akin to a spousal one and Im not persuaded that by answering one 
question incorrectly, about the keeper of the car, One has been put into a significantly worse 
position.
But the outcome of this case means that Ms F and Mr Ks car was stolen and One refused to 
settle their claim. So I think Ms F and Mr K have been put into a position that is significantly 
disproportionate to the mistake they made.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Ones response leaves Ms F and Mr K with a 
fair or reasonable outcome. 
So, I think One should settle their claim on the remaining policy terms. Id also expect 
interest at 8% simple to be added to the settlement amount, from two weeks after the car 
was stolen to the date payment is made.
In later correspondence with this service Ms F and Mr K talk about their difficulties with 
moving their family around and the stress this has caused. I cant see that this formed part of 
their approach to One, so Id say that if they wish to make a further complaint about this then 
they are free to do so and bring it to this service in due course if they remain unhappy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct One Insurance Limited to:
Settle Ms F and Mr Ks claim on the remaining policy terms.
Interest at 8% simple should be added to the settlement amount for a period of two 
weeks after the car was stolen to the date payment is made.
One Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms F and Mr K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman