DRN-3962055
The complaint
Mr I complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly treated him in relation to a 
claim made on a car insurance policy.
What happened
The background of the complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr I holds his car insurance with esure. In July 2021, following an incident he made a 
claim on his car insurance policy  and the car was determined to be beyond 
economical repair.
esure valued the vehicle at £7,356, and agreed to pay this minus £800 for existing 
damage to the vehicle and the policys excess.
Mr I complained about a range of matters, including the valuation and deductions, 
providing an invoice for £240 which he said was an accurate reflection of existing 
damage repairs. He also complained about a lack of a courtesy car, and the 
compensation awarded which he said wasnt reflective of ongoing costs he incurred. 
As well as concerns about the behaviour of its staff that he considered to be 
discriminatory.
esure considered the complaint and agreed its customer service had fallen short, so 
it offered £500 compensation.
One of our Investigators looked at what happened and said esures compensation 
settlement was fair, saying:
oesures vehicle valuation was in line with professional valuation guide prices.
oThe existing damage reduction was fair.
oThe policy doesnt cover a courtesy car where the vehicle is beyond 
economical repair/total loss  as it was here  so it didnt need to provide one.
oesures offer of compensation was fair in light of the mistakes made.
oShe wasnt satisfied the evidence suggested Mr I had been discriminated 
against but asked for details of any specific occasions to consider this further.
Mr I re-shared his repairs invoice and he asked this Service to consider that esure 
sold his vehicle without his permission when he wished to retain it, and that esure 
amended his policy without proper authority.
In relation to the invoice esure said this only included labour and not materials, and 
supplied its own adjusters comments that reflected the pre-accident damage was 
£1,674 but it had only deducted £800.
Our Investigator was persuaded by esures comments on the deduction. She said the 
evidence available didnt suggest Mr I had told esure of his request to retain the car 
until after hed received his settlement. And she agreed esure made changes to Mr 
Is policy without his permission, so she awarded an additional £150 for this.
esure responded to say Mr I had given authority for his relative to deal with matters 
since July 2021, so any amendment was in line with his agreement. Our Investigator 
stood by her position, saying esure had not provided a copy of any calls that show Mr 
I gave permission for any other person to change his policy details.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Valuation and reductions:
esure accepted Mr Is claim and agreed it by paying the market value of the car. 
The policy specifies this will be based on research from motor trade guides.
Our service doesnt value vehicles ourselves. We check the valuation that an insurer 
has placed on a car and provide our opinion on whether its fair. We do this by 
consulting various recognised trade guides, as well as other evidence provided.
Our investigator has detailed the prices provided by the trade guides previously. The 
results were between £6,855, £7,050 and £8,163.
Im satisfied esures valuation of £7,356 is in line with these valuations.
esure has provided evidence that shows the existing damage equated to £1,674 in 
repairs. Mr I disputes this and provided his own invoice. As esure has said, this only 
accounts for labour and not materials.
Courtesy car and retaining vehicle:
Mr I hasnt disputed that his policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car. But hes asked 
for one anyway in these particular circumstances. I see no fair reason to direct esure 
to act outside of its terms.
Mr I has said he intended to retain his vehicle so this was disposed of without his 
wishes. I would expect a policyholder to raise this with an insurer and here I cant see 
that he did until after the settlement was made. So, Im not satisfied this is a mistake 
on esures part.
Service, compensation and policy changes:
Ive reviewed all of the notes and documentation. esure has said its handling couldve 
been better, and Im in agreement.
I wont be directing esure to pay for additional costs Mr I has sought as these are not 
covered by the policy, and Im not persuaded there is a fair and reasonable reason to 
do so. I have considered the inconvenience within the wider compensation below.
Mr I has said the compensation offered is insufficient and it should pay more.
Ive thought about all of the circumstances, significant delays in places, and taking 
into account the poor handling Im satisfied esure will have caused a degree of 
unnecessary frustration and distress to Mr I.
There has been some back and forth about whether Mr I had provided esure with permission for his relative to make amendments to the policy. Ive listened to the call 
provided by esure, and while its clear his relative is representing him on the phone in 
relation to the claim, Im not satisfied this authority was clearly given to make policy 
amendments down the line. Mr I hasnt described any difficulties or challenges that 
have occurred as a result of this, so it seems the impact of this mistake is limited to 
just avoidable frustration for Mr I.
Taking this into account, Im in agreement with our Investigators compensation of 
£650 is a fair and reasonable sum in the circumstances.
Mr I has accused esures staff of discriminating against him but hasnt provided this 
Service with detail to support this. So, Im not persuaded to direct esure to do 
anything further on this point.
My final decision
For the above reasons I am upholding this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr I £650 compensation in total, taking into account any sums already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman