DRN-3214100
The complaint
 Mr B complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. Hed been a victim of identity theft, with a 
fraudulent Barclays account set up in his name, and a debt incurred on it. Barclays said it 
had closed the fraudulent account, but around 18 months later, Mr B was contacted again 
about the debt by a debt collection firm.
Mr B wants more compensation than Barclays has offered him.
 
What happened
 In 2018 / 2019, Mr B was a victim of identity theft and a Barclays account was opened in his 
name by the fraudster. Barclays investigated Mr Bs complaint. In its final response letter in 
September 2019, it told Mr B it had closed his account, and had notified the fraud prevention 
agency CIFAS that hed been a victim of fraud. It also said it had sent a request to cleanse 
Mr Bs credit file. Barclays paid Mr B £600 compensation, which it said was for having 
allowed the fraudulent account to be opened; an error in not removing a detrimental marker; 
Mr Bs time on the phone and in a branch; the earlier complaint not being worked properly 
and for not meeting its complaints timescale.
At that time, Mr B contacted this service, which considered that Barclays £600 
compensation payment had been fair and reasonable.
On 7 December 2020, Mr B received a letter from Barclays, which told him that the debt on 
the fraudulent account had been sold to debt collectors. He also had a letter from the debt 
collectors. Mr B was unhappy that the fraudulent debt had been sold on to the debt 
collectors. He was also unhappy because the letters had been sent to his current, correct 
address, not to the address which had been used for the fraudulent application. 
Mr B contacted the debt collectors, who told him that it had carried out a trace in order to find 
his address. He complained to Barclays.
In late January 2021, Barclays spoke to Mr B.  It said it would buy back the debt from the 
debt collection agency, and couldnt change his credit file until after it had done that, or the 
problem might recur again. Mr B was unhappy with how long this was taking. And he asked 
why Barclays had attached his genuine details to the fraudulent account which it had then 
sent to the debt collectors.
Barclays replied to Mr Bs complaint on 11 February 2021. It said it had closed the fraudulent 
account in summer 2019, but it had re-opened it to record the fraud impersonation  and 
then hadnt closed it again.  This was why the account had been sold to the debt collectors. 
Barclays said that no adverse credit file information had been recorded, but if Mr B was still 
seeing adverse credit file information, he should send Barclays a copy. Barclays offered Mr 
B £100 compensation, saying that although it acknowledged the upset caused, it must stress 
that payments for compensation were designed to be modest.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the compensation, or the explanation for why his genuine address 
had been linked to the debt. He felt that Barclays staff hadnt done their job properly in 
closing the account initially as hed been promised. He said that it had initially taken Barclays 
a long time to agree the account was fraudulent when hed first reported it, and to rectify his 
credit file. He was unhappy that after all his efforts to resolve this, hed been chased again 
many months later for a debt that wasnt his. And he believed Barclays had linked his correct 
address to the fraudulent debt.
He complained to this service. 
Our investigator contacted Barclays to ask why Mr Bs correct address had ended up on the 
letter which Barclays had sent, on its headed paper, to Mr B about the debt. Barclays replied 
that the correct address had been provided directly by Mr B when hed first reported the 
problem in July 2019.
In her view, the investigator acknowledged that linking Mr Bs genuine address to the debt 
shouldnt have been done. But Mr Bs credit file hadnt been affected, and she couldnt re-
visit the compensation for the original complaint. She thought that £100 extra compensation 
was fair and reasonable for the trouble caused by the new issues.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that:
- the compensation didnt reflect the distress hed suffered;
- he was unhappy that the investigator hadnt been willing to consider the matters 
around the first complaint about the fraud. He said that what had happened was a 
wound which had been re-opened, causing additional upset, and he was now 
stressed by talking about it;
- hed spent hours trying to resolve the issue. Hed phoned all the credit reference 
agencies to see if hed been affected, as well as the time speaking to the debt 
collectors and to Barclays;
- he didnt accept that Barclays didnt know how his correct address ended up on the 
letter about the fraudulent debt. Mr B believes Barclays must have a record of how 
the address was authorised to be on that account.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to the amount of compensation which would be fair and reasonable 
for the events after Mr Bs previous complaint, which was finalised in 2019. In my provisional 
decision, I explained that I couldnt revisit that complaint. But what I could do was to consider 
the impact on Mr B of finding out that Barclays hadnt closed the fraudulent account as it had 
promised, and the impact on him of the events which happened as a result of that failure.
Barclays failure to close the fraudulent account
Barclays September 2019 final response letter confirmed that it had closed the fraudulent 
account. So Mr B would have expected that he wouldnt have any more trouble. I accepted 
that it had been a great shock to him to receive a letter from debt collectors over a year later, 
together with a letter from Barclays saying it had passed his debt to debt collectors. As a result of Barclays failure to close the fraudulent account, Mr B suffered a great deal of 
worry and upset.  I accepted that the distress caused by finding out that the fraudulent 
account hadnt been closed after all would have brought back all the stress and worry which 
Mr B suffered originally  as he put it, like re-opening a wound.  It was understandable that 
hed have become stressed and upset. It would have seemed as if the nightmare had come 
back and would never be solved.
To Mr B, this failure wasnt just an administrative slip, something that was enormously 
distressing and came out of the blue. In particular, bring contacted by a debt collection firm, 
for money which he didnt owe, would have been very shocking and upsetting. 
There were practical implications and inconvenience too. When Mr B first reported the new 
problem to Barclays, the banks notes say that Mr B had been on the phone for 50 minutes, 
and that was just on the first phone call. Mr B also had to spend time contacting the debt 
collection agency.  And he had to contact all the credit reference agencies too, to find out 
whether or not his credit file had been affected. It was some months before Barclays sent its 
final response saying that his credit file hadnt been affected, so Mr B would reasonably have 
wanted to find out for himself, rather than take Barclays word for it. And even when he did 
receive the final response letter, it didnt give categorical assurance, because it said if he 
was still seeing the information, he should get in touch. All of this meant extra inconvenience 
for Mr B.
The issue of Mr Bs address
The organisation which considers breaches of data protection is the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). So I explained that I couldnt make a finding on whether or not 
Barclays breached Mr Bs rights in relation to a potential link between his correct address 
and the fraudulent account. But what I could do was to consider whats most likely to have 
happened, and what the impact would have been on Mr B from this worry.
It wasnt clear how Mr Bs correct address was linked to the fraudulent account, and the debt 
which was still incorrectly in his name many months after it should have been dealt with. 
What Barclays originally told Mr B, and what Id seen in Barclays case notes, was that what 
Barclays passed to the debt collectors was the fraudulent address, not his correct one. Then 
the debt collectors had traced Mr Bs current address using their normal methods. This 
tallied with what the debt collection firm told Mr B  that theyd traced him. This would mean 
that Barclays hadnt told the debt collectors of Mr Bs correct address or linked it to the 
fraudulent account.
But when our investigator specifically asked Barclays how Mr Bs address ended up on the 
letter sent to him about the debt in December 2020, Barclays replied, as Ive set out above, 
that Mr B had provided the correct address directly, when he raised his original July 2019 
complaint. This would mean that Barclays itself had wrongly linked Mr Bs correct address to 
the fraudulent account.
So I couldnt tell for certain how Mr Bs correct address became linked to the fraudulent 
account. I recognised that this was frustrating for Mr B. 
But my assessment of what would be the right amount of compensation related primarily to 
Barclays key error - not closing Mr Bs account  rather than to the question of the address. 
It was this which set off the chain of worry and inconvenience which Mr B suffered. And at 
least the fact that the letter was sent to Mr Bs correct address meant that he found out about 
Barclays mistake, rather than have a debt in his name for years, which he didnt know about. So I find that in any event, the primary matter affecting Mr Bs distress was that 
Barclays failed to close the fraudulent account properly in 2019.  
Compensation
Taking all these factors into account, I didnt consider that the £100 compensation offered by 
Barclays fairly reflected what Mr B suffered as a result of Barclays failure properly to close 
the fraudulent account as it had promised. I considered a fair and reasonable figure would 
be £250.
I also said that it appeared from the file that Barclays hadnt yet paid Mr B the £100 it 
offered, because he didnt accept it, so I asked both sides to confirm the current position in 
their responses to the provisional decision.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said that hed have liked more compensation, but he accepted the provisional decision.
Barclays accepted the provisional decision.
Neither side confirmed whether it was accurate that Barclays hadnt yet paid Mr B the £100 it 
had offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments. Having done so, and taking 
into account the parties responses, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and 
reasonable.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
B £250 compensation for the distress, worry, and inconvenience which it caused him.
As I set out above, it isnt clear whether or not Barclays paid Mr B the £100 it offered. If it has 
paid him £100, that leaves £150 still to pay. If it hasnt, the full £250 is still to pay. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman