DRN-2558871
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosinca Mortgages) unfairly 
recorded a late payment on her credit file. She says this is making it difficult to re-mortgage 
and shed like it removed.
What happened
Mrs C had a buy to let mortgage with Topaz. She says her tenants werent paying rent due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the pandemic also caused her and her husband to be out of 
work. Mrs C asked for, and Topaz granted, payment deferrals for May to September 2020. 
Mrs C didnt make the payment due in October 2020 and Topaz recorded arrears on her 
credit file. Mrs C says this is unfair and prevents her from re-mortgaging. Mrs C says Topaz 
should have made more effort to contact her when she missed the payment.
Our investigator said Topaz gave Mrs C clear information about the payment deferrals and 
when the next payments was due. It told her shed need to re-instate her direct debit which 
Mrs C had cancelled in March 2020. The investigator said Topaz tried to contact Mrs C but 
the phone numbers it had for her  and which shed confirmed were right  were incorrect. 
Mrs C was one month or more in arrears by the end of October 2020 and the investigator 
said it was fair for Topaz to record this on her credit file.
In summary, Mrs C said its not relevant that she confirmed incorrect phone numbers to 
Topaz. She said when Topaz couldnt reach her by phone it should have written to her about 
the direct debit and the missed payment. She said this should be standard procedure. Mrs C 
said we need to take the bigger picture of poor customer service into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Topaz recorded arrears on Mrs Cs credit file. This is accurate: Mrs Cs agreed payment 
deferral had ended and she didnt make the contractual monthly payment due in October 
2020. 
Mrs C says this is unfair. She says if Topaz had written to her about the missed payments 
when it couldnt reach her by phone shed have made the payment in time to avoid arrears 
being recorded. She says Topaz should take into account that shed never previously 
missed a payment, that none of this would have happened but for the pandemic and that she 
stopped her direct debit due to previous problems with Topaz.
The issue I have to decide is whether, taking the circumstances into account, it would be fair 
to require Topaz to remove the adverse data. In making my decision, Ive taken the following 
into account.
This is a buy to let mortgage. Mrs C told Topaz they had six different mortgages. Letting 
property is a business and Id expect a borrower to manage the account with less 
support than for a residential mortgage. 
This happened during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs C has said this was a difficult and 
stressful time for her. Her tenants werent paying rent and she wasnt able to work. 
Topaz gave Mrs C clear information about when the payment deferrals would be in place 
and when the next payment was due. It wrote to her with this information. 
Topaz checked Mrs Cs contact details with her, and she confirmed her phone details 
were correct. 
Mrs C cancelled her direct debit in March 2020. When Mrs C spoke to Topaz in April she 
said her broker had advised her to re-instate direct debits on other mortgage accounts. 
Topaz told Mrs C that she could do this for this account. It said shed need to contact it at 
the end of the payment deferral to re-instate the direct debit.
Mrs C made her contractual monthly payment for April by card during her call with 
Topaz. There was a discussion about when Topaz records arrears  that this was when 
the account was one month or more in arrears.
Topaz wrote to Mrs C in mid-September 2020 saying the next payment was due in 
October 2020. 
Topaz couldnt have taken the payment itself as Mrs C had cancelled the direct debit.
Mrs C could have made the payment at any time in October 2020. Topaz doesnt usually 
send arrears letters until an account is one month or more in arrears  in this case after 
the end of October. It followed its process here.
Mrs C says Topaz should have written to her about needing to re-instate her direct debit. But 
shed told Topaz that she knew this. And she says it should have written to her about her 
missed payment. Topaz did write to Mrs C about the payment: it wrote to her in September 
telling her that a payment was due in October 2020. Mrs C needed to make the payment 
before the end of October to avoid any impact on her credit file. I dont think its reasonable 
to say that Topaz should have sent her further reminders during October. 
Mrs C would have received a call or text reminding her about the payment if the phone 
numbers Topaz had for her were correct. These numbers werent correct, but this wasnt due 
to an error by Topaz  in fact it checked the numbers with Mrs C when she called about the 
payment deferrals. 
Im sorry that Mrs C missed the payment due in October and I appreciate this affected her 
credit file. But I dont think this was due to an error by Topaz. I dont think I can fairly require 
Topaz to remove the arrears from Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs Cs mortgage product with Topaz has ended. She hopes to re-mortgage at a lower 
interest rate and shes paying interest at Topaz standard variable rate in the meantime. 
Mrs C says she didnt apply for the mortgage she wanted due to the adverse data. I dont 
know if Mrs C has contacted a broker or taken independent financial advice about what her 
options are, but this is something she could consider. Mrs C says shed experienced poor service from Topaz previously. Im not looking into that 
here. Im looking into whether Topaz gave Mrs C clear information about the payment 
deferrals and when shed need to make a payment. I think it did.
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Topaz dealt with her complaint. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity and isnt, in itself, something we can look into. I can look into whether the 
way Topaz dealt with Mrs Cs complaint delayed sorting out the underlying problem (Mrs Cs 
request that arrears recorded on her credit file be removed). I dont think it did. Topaz sent a 
final response letter responding to this matter in November 2020. Topaz says it made some 
errors when dealing with Mrs C and offered £150 compensation. I leave it to Mrs C to decide 
whether to accept this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman