DRN-4354018
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of a claim 
made under her home insurance policy. She also says damage was caused to her property 
during the claim.
Where Ive referred to Admiral, this also includes any actions or communication by agents 
acting on Admirals behalf.
What happened
In December 2022 a pipe in the loft of Mrs Hs home burst and caused significant damage to 
her property. A claim was made to Admiral, Mrs Hs home insurance provider.
Mrs H was moved to alternative accommodation, and as far as Im aware, repairs are still 
ongoing. Mrs H is unhappy with Admirals handling of her claim, this includes the uncertainty 
she had around her alternative accommodation, and she says the removal company 
appointed by Admiral damaged her driveway.
Mrs H complained to Admiral and later brought the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said for the 
period she was considering (up to Admirals final response of 16 May 2023), delays had 
occurred in the drying of Mrs Hs property, and this resulted in continued uncertainty with 
Mrs Hs alternative accommodation. So, she recommended Admiral pay £200 
compensation.
However, the investigator said there was insufficient evidence to show the driveway was 
solely damaged by the removal company appointed by Admiral, so she didnt uphold this 
part of the complaint.
Admiral agreed with the investigators compensation recommendation. Mrs H didnt agree 
overall. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
When reaching my decision on this case, like our investigator, Ive considered what 
happened up to the point Admiral issued their final response on 16 May 2023. 
As explained to Mrs H by our investigator, for any issues that have more recently arisen 
since then, such as the quality of repairs that have been carried out, and having to move out 
of alternative accommodation, Mrs H would need to raise this with Admiral in the first 
instance. If Mrs H remains unhappy with Admirals position after this, she could then bring a 
new separate complaint to us about those issues - subject to our usual rules and timescales.
Mrs Hs claim was made in mid-December 2022. The damage caused by the burst pipe was 
extensive, and this meant Mrs H needed to be moved to alternative accommodation.
I can see from the timeline of what happened that there were delays in drying being 
completed. Whilst this would always have taken some time, it does appear there were 
avoidable delays in this starting. Asbestos was also discovered, which then caused the 
timescale for repairs to start to be further extended.
I do think there were some unavoidable delays which would mean the claim would always 
have taken some time, such as the property needing drying in the first place, and the 
discovery of asbestos which needed removing. But there were also avoidable delays too, 
such as the delay in drying actually starting and a delay in asbestos removal being 
completed after it was identified. So, I cant hold Admiral responsible for all the delays or 
time taken. But as I say, there were some avoidable delays during this time.
What this also meant was that Mrs H faced uncertainty with her alternative accommodation. 
Admiral struggled to find suitable longer-term accommodation due to Mrs H having a pet. 
And this resulted in Mrs H being in shorter term alternative accommodation, which needed to 
be extended several times, leaving her facing uncertainty whether shed need to move or 
not. Our investigator recommended Admiral (and they agreed to) pay Mrs H £200 for the 
avoidable delays and the resulting uncertainty this caused with the alternative 
accommodation. 
With any claim there will be unavoidable distress and inconvenience caused as a result of a 
home being damaged and having to make a claim. And this will be a stressful time in itself. 
But Admiral wasnt responsible for the pipe bursting in the first place or the distress and 
inconvenience having to make a claim caused. 
However, I think the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator is reasonable for 
any delays Admiral were responsible for, and the knock-on effect of these. Mrs H also 
mentioned she had to take three days away from work unpaid due to medical reasons, which 
she says were as a result of Admiral. However, I cant see that any medical evidence has 
been provided which shows this was caused solely due to Admirals handling of matters. But 
if Mrs H does have any evidence to support this, she should send this to Admiral to consider 
further.
Mrs H also says the removal company appointed by Admiral has caused damage to her 
driveway, but Admiral hasnt accepted they are responsible for this. I do acknowledge that the removal agent said they didnt park on Mrs Hs driveway, but 
Mrs H obtained a photograph which shows they in fact did. And I appreciate there is also 
damage to Mrs Hs driveway. But for me to recommend Admiral pay for driveway repairs, Id 
need to be persuaded, on balance, the damage was caused solely by the removal company. 
Whilst they did park on the driveway, there isnt any evidence to support that they were 
responsible for causing damage. So, in the absence of this, I wont be directing Admiral to 
pay for repairing Mrs Hs driveway.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mrs H £200 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman