DRN-3229502
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about a secured loan she has, which is administered by 
Target Servicing Limited. Miss M doesnt believe the balance of the account is correct and is 
unhappy that she was charged for a field agent visit in 2020.
What happened
Miss M took out a secured loan for just over £21,000 with lender W in 2007. The loan was 
transferred to a new lender, C in June 2018. C wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to administer mortgages, and so it had to appoint a business that was. Target was 
appointed to fulfil this function. 
Miss M was sent a letter in May 2018 explaining that the transfer was happening with effect 
from June 2018. Contact details were provided in the event that Miss M had any questions 
or concerns about the situation. It was confirmed that the terms and conditions of the loan 
wouldnt change, and a tariff of charges was enclosed for Miss Ms information, which 
confirmed what Target would charge for various activities. 
At that time, Miss M wasnt being charged interest on the loan and W had agreed that she 
could pay just £50 toward the loan each month, which was lower than the payment the 
contract required for full repayment to occur before the end of the loan term. 
W sent Miss M six-monthly letters detailing the status of her loan account. The first such 
letter we have been provided with is dated 7 November 2016. This set out the loan balance 
and the separate arrears balance. The loan balance was slightly over £18,000 and the 
arrears balance was slightly over £14,000. 
The May 2017 W letter detailed the payments shed made and that the loan balance had 
reduced to slightly under £18,000. The arrears balance had increased to almost £15,400. 
The November 2017 letter documented the loan balance as having reduced to slightly over 
£17,500 and the arrears balance as slightly under £16,500. The final letter sent to Miss M by 
W about the status of the account was dated 7 May 2018.  Both the loan balance and the 
arrears figure were just over £17,000. 
Miss M contacted Target in July 2018 questioning the balance of the account as she thought 
it should be lower. She was told she would need to speak to W if she was disputing the 
balance of the loan. Miss M told Target that she wouldnt be making any payments to the 
loan until the issue was resolved. Miss M called Target again later that month to say tell it 
that shed spoken to W and it had told her the account was closed and it couldnt help her. 
Target asked Miss M if she had any documentation that reflected the balance she believed 
the loan should have. It doesnt appear that Miss M provided any documentation to Target.
In late 2018 Target started attempting to contact Miss M about the arrears on the loan. It was 
unable to do so, and so it decided to arrange for a field agent to attend her home. The 
purpose of the visit was to obtain information about Miss Ms situation so that Target could 
determine if it could help Miss M and what the appropriate action going forward would be. 
Miss M was informed of this intention and called Target. She said she could only afford to 
pay £20 each month. Target explained it needed to assess her circumstances and it was 
agreed that Miss M would provide an income and expenditure form. Target cancelled the 
field agent visit. 
However, Miss M didnt send in an income and expenditure form. As such, some months 
later, Target rearranged the field agent visit. Miss M again called Target to discuss the 
situation. Target again explained the need for an income and expenditure exercise; Miss M 
didnt have the time to do that over the phone at that time, but promised to complete the form 
and send it in. She didnt and so the field agent visit went ahead. The field agent wasnt able 
to speak to Miss M, as it was established that she no longer lived in the property, but instead 
rented it out. A charge for the field agent visit was added to Miss Ms loan balance. 
In August 2019 Miss M was told that Target would be starting legal action given that no 
payments had been made for a year. Miss M told Target that she hadnt been making 
payments because she was unemployed. There was discussion about why Target was 
considering legal action and Miss M said that she had recently sent it an income and 
expenditure form. Target agreed to put any action on hold while it awaited the arrival of the 
form. Miss M also complained about the field agent charge being added to her loan balance, 
as she had been told by W that no further charges would be applied to the loan. A complaint 
about the loan balance was set up by Target.
In November 2019 Miss M was sent another letter telling her that Target would be starting 
legal action and she had further discussions with Target. She complained that Target hadnt 
dealt with her concerns about the balance of the account, other than to refer her back to W. 
She also mentioned her concern about the addition of the field agent fee. Miss M was told 
that her concern about the loan balance had been logged as a complaint in August 2019 and 
was being investigated; Target would get back to her. 
There was also conversation about Miss M starting to make payments again, as whatever 
the balance was, she needed to do so. The conversation evolved into a discussion about 
prioritising making payments to the secured loan over unsecured debts, and Miss M was 
encouraged to seek independent financial advice. This then led to a conversation about the 
field agent visit and the associated charge.
The next conversation between Miss M and Target was in January 2020. She told Target 
that she hadnt been in touch because it had said it would deal with her concerns. She said 
shed been told to contact W herself, and she didnt see why that was her responsibility. 
There was then a conversation about the loan balance and the field agent charge. Target 
attempted to explain to Miss M how the loan balance and arrears balances worked and how 
the latter could increase if no payments were being made, even if interest wasnt be 
charged.
On 12 March 2020 Target issued a final response letter to Miss M on behalf of C. This 
addressed concerns Miss M had reiterated in her telephone call with Target in January 2020. 
The concerns being about the charge for the field agent visit and the loan balance being 
incorrect. Target set out the events prior to the field agent charge being applied and why it 
considered it was reasonable that the charge had been applied. As for the loan balance, it 
confirmed how the main balance and the arrears balances were calculated. It was satisfied 
that the balances were correct. 
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Targets response to the complaint and she referred it to us. 
When she did so, she said that when C purchased the loan, it had been agreed that no 
interest or charges would be applied to the loan, and that she only needed to pay £50 each 
month. As such, the balance of the loan shouldnt change, but it was around £17,000, rather 
than the £14,000 she thought it should be.One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part. While he didnt think 
Target was wrong to have added the charge for a field agent to the account, or that the 
evidence indicated the loan balance was wrong, the service provided to Miss M when she 
was raising concerns was not what it should have been. Ultimately, he recommended that 
Target pay Miss M £75 compensation, which Target agreed to.
Miss M rejected the recommendation for compensation, as the amount in dispute was 
£3,000. She asked that the complaint be escalated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has said that the balance of the loan is higher than it should be, based on the 
information W had given her about the loan before it was transferred to C. While Miss M 
recollects the balance was only £14,000 prior to the transfer, the evidence I have seen 
doesnt support that. The last statement of the account W sent Miss M before the transfer 
clearly shows that the balance on the loan, and the arrears balance, were both in excess of 
£17,000. As such, I cant find that Target has given Miss M incorrect information about the 
loan balance or the arrears balances.
As for the charge for the field agent visit, I dont consider that it was unreasonable that 
Target applied this charge to the account. I say this as Miss M had stopped making the 
payments shed agreed under the payment arrangement with W. At this point the agreement 
would be considered broken and Target rightly needed to discuss with Miss M a way forward 
for the account. It attempted to do so and explained the need for an income and expenditure 
exercise. Miss M said she would give Target the necessary information, but didnt do so for 
many months. In the situation where a borrower is not co-operating with a lender or its 
administrator, its quite normal procedure for a field agent to visit the borrower to try to collect 
the information needed. In the circumstances, I dont think Target acted unreasonably in 
sending out a field agent to the property it believed Miss M lived and for having charged her 
for doing so. 
That said, I agree with our investigator that the service Miss M received in relation to her 
concerns could have been better. Target has accepted that finding and agreed to pay £75 
compensation, I think thats an appropriate sum in the circumstances. I know that Miss M 
wont accept that is the case, as she is comparing the sum with the amount she believes 
Target has incorrectly increased her loan balance by. However, the compensation payment 
is not related to that amount, and I would reiterate, that I havent found Target made any 
errors in that regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement I require 
Target Servicing Limited to pay Miss M £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman