DRN-4138745
The complaint
Mr H complains Liverpool Victoria Company Limited (LV) declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H made claim on his motor insurance policy when his car was stolen. The car was
recovered the following day  but, on inspection, LVs engineer found the engine was
damaged. LV said CCTV footage showed the wing mirrors were open and the lights from the
indicators did not flash when Mr H parked the car or when it was stolen. It declined the claim,
because it thought this meant the car had been unlocked at the time of the theft.
When Mr H complained, he said he had locked his car and the wing mirrors hadnt folded
since he purchased the vehicle. He also wasnt happy with the length of time LV had taken
to review his claim. LV didnt change its position, and it also said the damage to the engine
was consistent with wear and tear and mechanical failures which would not be covered
under the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said that due to how
quickly the thief entered, started, and drove the car away, she thought this was consistent
with the car being unlocked. She also didnt think the engine damage was likely the result of
the theft. Our investigator said that, due to the nature of the claim, she didnt think LVs
investigation had taken an unreasonable amount of time.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. He says the dealership he bought the car from
could have set the wing mirrors to static. He thinks its possible the thiefs actions may have
caused the wing mirrors to start to fold when locked. He still thinks the thief is responsible for
the mechanical damage.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 April 2023 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached but I would like to explain in more detail.
Declined claims
The terms and conditions of the policy exclude:
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if:
- your car has been left unlocked or with a window or roof open
I dont think thats an unusual exclusion and its commonly found in motor insurance policies.
However, I think its a significant exclusion and I would expect it to be highlighted in the
policy documentation. Im satisfied it was, because it is clearly set out in the policy summary
and other policy documentation.
Mr H is unhappy with some of the comments made in the engineers report, which suggested
that the theft may have been staged. I can understand why he would have found this
upsetting. LV doesnt dispute that the car was stolen, rather its declined the claim on the
basis Mr Hs car was unlocked at the time of the theft. The engineer is entitled to share his
expert opinion, and LV should consider all potentials (if only to discount them). But those
comments didnt have any bearing on LVs claim decision, and they were only shared with
Mr H on his request. So, I dont think LV need to apologise or pay compensation for the
engineers comments.
In cases like this what I must consider is whether LV carried out a fair investigation, reviewed
all the evidence available to it and reached a reasonable decision. I think it has and Ill
explain why.
LVs engineer inspected the car and said the wing mirrors folded and the indicator lights on
them flashed when the car was locked. I asked Mr H for evidence to show his wing mirrors
were static prior to the theft and he provided a statement from the dealership he bought his
car from. The dealerships representative said that all cars are restored to factory settings
when delivered, so they think this means the wing mirrors would have been static. However,
theyve also said the initial check sheet for Mr Hs car doesnt confirm whether the wing
mirrors were directly inspected.
Ive spoken to a manufacturer dealership who confirmed that if the car had the power fold
optional feature included, then the wing mirrors would have folded if the car was restored to
its factory settings. So, I dont think Mr Hs dealerships comments are enough to persuade
me the wing mirrors were static before the incident. Based on the information available, I
think its likely the wing mirrors would have folded if the car was locked at the time of the
incident.
Neither party disputes that the CCTV footage shows the wing mirrors were open when Mr H
first parked the car. Crucially, the second footage also shows the wing mirrors were open
when the thief approached the car. LV thinks this indicated the car was unlocked at the time
of the incident and I find thats a reasonable conclusion.
Furthermore, in the CCTV footage the thief is seen to approach the car and open the door
almost immediately, I think this further indicates that the car was open. I accept that the thief
could have opened the car earlier and come back to steal it. But I dont have information to
show what happened in the time between Mr H parking his car and it being stolen. When
there is limited information, I must decide what is most likely to have happened  and, on
balance, I think it is likely the car had been left unlocked at the time of the theft.
In its final response letter LV told Mr H that a known vulnerability of cars like his, is that the
position of the wing mirrors shows if the car is unlocked, making them susceptible to theft. It
said the cars are then accessed and stolen using the OBD port. It said the manufacturer
confirmed that as long as the car is locked it remains protected from signal jammers, relay
theft and other forms of entering the car. So, I think its likely that the car being unlocked
made it easier for it to be stolen. Ultimately, Im satisfied LVs decision to decline Mr Hs
claim was fair and reasonable.
Engine damage
The terms and conditions of the policy excludes mechanical damage and damage caused by
wear and tear. LVs engineer thinks the engine damage was due to low oil levels, and he
doesnt think it was related to the theft. In those circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable
for it decline Mr Hs claim for the repair work.
However, Mr H doesnt agree with LVs engineer he thinks the damage to the engine wascaused by the thief. As I think its decision to decline the theft claim was fair and reasonable,
it follows that I dont think it needs to cover the cost of repairing damage caused in the
incident. So, even if I were to accept what Mr H says, I dont find LV need to pay for any of
the repair work resulting from this incident.
Claim delay
The engineers report was filed on 8 June 2022. Following the report, LV requested the keys
to the car and subsequently requested further information from the manufacturer to aid its
investigations. I dont think they were unreasonable requests, but I find some tasks could
have been actioned sooner than they were.
I also think LV could have done more to update Mr H on the progress of his claim during its
investigation. That said, I think its important to note that making a claim isnt always straight
forward and the process of validating a claim can be lengthy  as investigations can take
some time. Mr H made a claim on the 27 May 2022 and LV declined his claim on 22 July
2022, around two months after the claim was initially made. In all the circumstances, and
considering the complexities of the claim, I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of time
overall. So, I wont ask it to compensate Mr H for this.
I appreciate Mr H says he has been left out of pocket because of the incident, and I know
this has been a difficult process for him. But, in light of what Ive said above, I dont think LV
needs to do anything differently in resolution of the complaint...
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
what I said provisionally.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I have decided I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman