DRN-2384375
The complaint
Mr R complains about how his motor insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a 
claim he made after another driver damaged his car. Mr Rs unhappy that he wasnt given a 
courtesy car for the full time he couldnt use his car, the time it took for the repairs to be 
done, and that not all the issues his car had after the incident were repaired. Mr R feels that 
because Ageas also insured the driver that hit his car, they tried to spend as little as possible 
on his claim.
What happened
Another driver reversed into Mr Rs car, hitting the passenger-side of his cars rear bumper. 
As well as the damage to the bumper, Mr R noticed a new vibration after the accident, 
coming from the front drivers-side wheel of his car.
Mr R raised a claim with his insurer, Ageas, on 23 July 2019.
Ageass telephone notes say Mr R told them his car was still driveable. They say this is why 
they didnt give him a courtesy car until his was in for repairs. Ageas also said that they 
didnt prioritise Mr Rs repairs for the same reason  he had a driveable car. They note that 
repairs were due to take place on 12 August, but had to be put back because a part wasnt 
ready.
In my provisional decision, I explained that Ageas had said the repairers had Mr Rs car from 
18 August, and a courtesy car was provided from 23 August. As part of his claim, Mr R 
submitted tickets and receipts showing he wasnt using his car from 13 to 23 August. This 
part of his claim was reimbursed under the other drivers policy with Ageas.
The instructions given to the repairers by Ageas noted Mr R thought a wishbone and hub 
bearing [had] gone since the accident. But the instructions didnt specify this was at the 
front, not the rear, of the car. The repairers didnt inspect or work on the front of the car, 
other than when they realigned all the cars wheels.
Mr R complained on 31 August, when he got his car back, because the vibration was still 
present. He said he felt he had no choice but to have the car repaired himself and seek the 
cost from Ageas. Ageas began trying to contact Mr R about this on 10 September, noting 
that the repairers were willing to inspect the car again. But when they finally reached Mr R 
on 13 September, he said repair work had already been done, and the broken parts 
disposed of.
In response to the complaint, Ageas felt the damage to the front of the car was unlikely to 
have been caused by the low energy impact at the rear. So they didnt add this to the claim. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I found it unreasonable Mr R wasnt given a 
courtesy car from 18 August, when the repairers had his. And I found it unreasonable Ageas 
didnt specifically tell the repairers that the vibration issue was at the front of the car. But I 
couldnt say from the evidence I had whether the repair for the vibration issue would have 
been covered by the claim. And while Ageas did insure the driver that hit Mr R, I couldnt see 
any evidence that theyd tried to unreasonably minimise costs for that reason. 
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional decision in the time I gave them. But Mr R did, 
saying he felt the £150 compensation I intended to award would leave him out of pocket. He 
confirmed though that he wasnt able to provide any more details about the repair work he 
had done to fix the vibration issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr R would like the full repair cost he incurred to be covered by Ageas, I 
still havent seen evidence to convince me thats a fair outcome for this case. I recognise 
Mr R hasnt been able to get any records from the repairers he chose to go to, but I feel he 
could have done more at the time to keep his receipts, and get a written quote for the work 
when he had it done. He could have expected hed need those documents, as hed said in 
his email on 31 August 2019 that he intended to seek payment from Ageas for the work. 
As my reasoning is unchanged from my provisional decision, Ive copied the wording with 
only minor changes. Ill cover the points in the order theyre mentioned at the start of this 
decision. 
The policy booklet for Mr Rs motor insurance shows me what Ageas had agreed theyd do 
to provide a courtesy car to him after an incident. Page 12 of the booklet said that if the car 
was going to be repaired by an approved repairer  as was the case here  Mr R would be 
given a courtesy car while that was done.
Ageas initially told us theyd given Mr R a courtesy car from 23 to 30 August, which was 
when they said his car was with their repairer. That would have been a reasonable level of 
service, in keeping with the terms of the policy. But theyve now confirmed the repairers had 
Mr Rs car from 18 August. So I conclude it was unreasonable not to have given him the 
courtesy car until 23 August.
With that said, it appears the other drivers insurance policy has covered Mr Rs expenses 
due to not having the use of a car. Hes received a payment for the costs hes been able to 
provide evidence of. So, while a courtesy car should have been provided from 18 August, 
not 23 August, I find theres nothing further Ageas need to do to put right the financial impact 
thats had on Mr R.
Its notable that Mr Rs bus tickets and receipts begin on 13 August, but it seems he had his 
car until 18 August. My understanding is Mr R was choosing not to drive his car due to the 
vibration issue. While I can understand the concern Mr R had, particularly for the safety of 
his family, I cant see that choice was something Ageas needed to take into account when 
providing a courtesy car.
The policy said an undriveable car would also need to be an insurance write off for Ageas to 
give Mr R a hire car, for no more than two weeks. The intention behind this part of the 
agreement seems to have been to give Mr R a car while he found himself a permanent 
replacement, if his car was written off. Those arent the circumstances here, so its 
reasonable Ageas didnt apply that part of the agreement to his claim.
The policy doesnt give a specific timescale for repairs to be completed. But I accept its 
reasonable, given Mr R told Ageas his car was still driveable, that an appointment was made with him based on the repairers availability, without any other prioritisation. I appreciate it 
was disappointing when a delay with a part meant Mr Rs car wasnt repaired as soon as he 
expected. But the availability of parts is not something Ageas could control.
Mr Rs made a point that a franchised dealers garage might have been able to get hold of 
the part sooner. But the agreement Mr R had with Ageas says that they use their approved 
repairers, and can choose which parts to use, provided they are of a similar type and quality. 
That gave them scope to use the garages and parts suppliers they chose, even if that wasnt 
going to be the quickest option.
While Ive found no undue delay by Ageas, the repair work was unreasonable in the way it 
dealt with the vibration issue that Mr R reported. I can see Ageas mentioned the issue to the 
repairers, but not that the vibration came from the front drivers-side of the car. The lack of 
this detail meant the repairers didnt inspect the relevant part of Mr Rs car during the time 
they had it.
Ageas should, in my view, have given better instructions to the repairer. Or their repairers 
shouldnt have assumed all the damage was to the rear passenger side of Mr Rs car, just 
because that was the only visible bodywork damage.
Putting things right
I appreciate Ageass expert says they think it very unlikely the impact would have caused the 
sort of damage Mr Rs reported. But without the inspection that should have been done after 
Mr R raised the issue, theres room for doubt, certainly in Mr Rs mind.
I can see that if Mr R had waited for Ageas to reply to his 31 August email before having the 
repairs done elsewhere, he may have been able to have Ageas look at the car again. That 
would have corrected the issue, because it would have confirmed if any damage was linked 
enough to the incident to be added to the claim. But equally, I can see it wasnt until 
10 September that Ageas tried to follow up the issue with Mr R. I can appreciate how that 
timescale, on top of the time waiting for the initial work to be done, left Mr R feeling like he 
didnt want to wait for Ageas to deal with the issue.
With that all said, Mr R hasnt shown me enough evidence to say the vibration issue was 
linked to the incident. Nor has he shown me anything that confirms the cost of the extra work 
he had done. So I cant conclude the extra repairs would have been done as part of his 
claim.
But Ageas should acknowledge the frustration caused for Mr R. Not inspecting the relevant 
part of his car, after hed told them about the vibration issue when reporting the claim, has 
added some upset to the whole incident.
I dont agree with Mr R that the root cause of this is linked to Ageas being the insurer for 
both drivers in this incident. Ageas have clearly taken steps to pay for repairs to Mr Rs car. 
And I can see from their contact notes that there were two different teams dealing with Mr R 
 one for his policy and one for the other drivers. That separation will have helped to avoid 
any conflict of interests for Ageas.
The error here seems simply to have been a lack of detail in the instructions to the repairers. 
That seems more of a human error to me, than a deliberate action against Mr R. 
I can see though that Mr R has been left upset, and feeling that hes lost out due to these 
issues. Ageas cant undo whats happened, but they should pay Mr R some compensation to 
recognise the upset and frustration theyve added to this matter. Choosing the exact value is a matter of opinion. But given there was some inconvenience due to the modest delay giving 
him a courtesy car, and the frustration shown in Mr Rs complaint, I find a payment of £150 
from Ageas is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited. To recognise the emotional 
impact the issues here had on Mr R, they should pay him compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman