DRN-2240013
The complaint
 Mrs P is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt tell her about its 
higher rate account when it reduced the interest rate on her ISA.
She would like Nationwide to give her that higher interest rate on her account.
What happened
 Nationwide reduced the interest rate on Mrs Ps ISA in April 2020 following a reduction in 
the Bank of Englands base rate to 0.1%. The change was communicated to Mrs P by letter.
Mrs P became aware her husband was receiving a rate of 1% interest on his Triple Access 
Online ISA, and contacted Nationwide to ask for the same account. It said it wouldnt be able 
to give her this account as it was no longer available.
Mrs P feels it should have told her about this account before, as shes been a loyal customer 
for many years. Nationwide said its accounts are offered on a non-advised basis so it 
wouldnt have recommended a specific account.
Mrs P said she couldnt come into the branch to discuss her account because she had been 
shielding. Nationwide took account of this and offered to give Mrs P a rate of 0.8% on her 
account, backdated to the day in April when her rate changed. But she wasnt happy with 
this and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide had done nothing wrong, and that the offer it had 
made was fair. Mrs P was unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs P is frustrated here. There was an account that Nationwide offered that 
had a better interest rate for her and shes unhappy that it didnt tell her about this. And by 
the time she did find out about it  it was too late for her to have this. That will be frustrating 
for her, but it doesnt mean that Nationwide has acted wrongly here.
Nationwides accounts like these are offered on a non-advised basis, which means it doesnt 
make recommendations about specific accounts. Thats something Nationwide is entitled to 
decide as a business. But we would expect that it makes the relevant information about 
these accounts available, to enable customers to make informed decisions.
 
In this case, the letter from Nationwide explained why it was reducing the rate on Mrs Ps 
account. It also explained her options in the light of the rate reduction. It said she could look 
at the other accounts it offered to see if a different account would be more suitable or move 
her account elsewhere. I appreciate Mrs P feels Nationwide should have told her directly, as 
shes been its customer for a long time. But, in the circumstances, I dont think its acted 
unfairly or done anything wrong in sign-posting the existence of other accounts rather than 
recommending any particular account. Ultimately there was no obligation on Nationwide to 
do so here and the sign-posting it did was fair.
Nationwide said Mrs P told it shed been unable to attend a branch to discuss her savings 
further because she had been shielding. I can see this meant she couldnt discuss her 
account face to face, and it is understandable that she would normally prefer to do this. But 
Covid 19 has meant that people have had to adapt to the situation and do things differently  
both customers and businesses. I can see that Mrs P did decide to call Nationwide to 
discuss her account. Unfortunately, by the time she contacted it, the account that she 
wanted was no longer on offer. 
I realise how frustrating that will be for Mrs P, but Nationwide is entitled to decide what 
products it offers its customers and for how long. It wouldnt be fair for me to tell Nationwide 
that it has to give Mrs P an account that it no longer offers customers.
But I was pleased to see that Nationwide took account of the fact that Mrs P hadnt been 
able to come into the branch and offered her an interest rate of 0.80%, backdated to April 
2020, when the rate on her account had changed. It was happy to make this offer in the light 
of the circumstances at the time and remains willing to fulfil this if Mrs P decides she would 
now like to accept it. I think this is a helpful offer as its not something that I think Nationwide 
necessarily has to do in the circumstances  but its a reasonable solution to suggest to 
resolve her complaint.
In summary, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong here. But it has made a 
helpful offer that takes account of Mrs Ps individual circumstances, so I wont be asking it to 
do anything more. If Mrs P would like to take Nationwide up on its offer now  she can do so 
by getting in touch with it directly.
I know Mrs P will be disappointed with this decision, but I think Nationwide have acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman