DRN-4263106
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited has pursued her for a debt 
that was included in a completed IVA. 
What happened
Mrs A has explained that she was in an IVA that completed in September 2019. There were 
two credit card debts with a business Ill call M that were included in the IVA. Once the IVA 
completed, Mrs A was no longer responsible for making repayments to the credit card debts 
with M. 
Cabot has explained that it had taken ownership of two credit cards in Mrs As name from M 
in December 2016. Both credit cards had been closed in default by M. 
Despite being included in a completed IVA in September 2019, Cabot continued to contact 
Mrs A by both letter and telephone. Earlier this year, Mrs A complained about the contact 
shed received from Cabot and explained the credit card debts had been included in her 
completed IVA. 
Cabot sent Mrs A a final response in April 2023 and upheld her complaint. Cabot confirmed 
that it should have marked the credit card debts as repaid in September 2019 when the IVA 
completed and apologised for contact it had made since that time. Cabot offered Mrs A £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Cabot had made a fair offer to resolve Mrs As complaint and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Mrs A asked to appeal and said she didnt feel Cabot had been held 
accountable. As Mrs A asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for Mrs As case. I understand the two credit cards Cabot purchased from 
M were included in Mrs As IVA. And Mrs A has provided evidence to show the in the IVA 
which completed in September 2019. 
Cabots final response also confirms it sent regular letters to Mrs A and called her to discuss 
both accounts. I can understand why Mrs A was upset to continue receiving contact from 
Cabot. But I havent seen any evidence that Mrs A responded to Cabots contact until earlier 
this year. And whilst I agree Cabot was acting in error, I can see its apologised for the 
mistake and taken steps to ensure the contact stopped. 
Cabots confirmed both accounts have now been closed and contact with Mrs A has ceased. 
Cabot also offered Mrs A £300 to apologise for its mistake. Whilst I understand Mrs A feel 
Cabot should be held accountable, our awards are consumer focused. That means we 
award a settlement that attempts to fairly reflect the impact of a mistake on the customer. 
Whilst I agree Cabot made a mistake over the course of several years, Im satisfied its 
resolved the underlying issued and made an offer that is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve Mrs As complaint. To put it another way, £300 is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told Cabot to pay, had no settlement been offered. As I think Cabot has already 
made a fair offer to resolve Mrs As complaint that recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused, Im not increasing the award. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A but as Im satisfied Cabot has already agreed a settlement that 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman