DRN-3015911
The complaint
 Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) continued charging him excessive 
amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
 Mr G complains that Lloyds acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account 
when he was in financial difficulty. He said the extra costs made his overdraft more difficult 
to repay. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr G was dissatisfied he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 December 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
subsequently made an offer to Mr G to refund some of the charges but Mr G wasnt willing to 
accept this offer and asked for a final decision. So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr 
Gs overdraft in November 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr G was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr G was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mr Gs overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr 
G wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Gs overdraft usage and instead continued charging 
in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mr G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in 1 December 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in 1 December 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman