DRN-3669841
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
I understand that Mr S received an email from someone Ill refer to as A. She said her father 
had died abroad and had money in a British bank account that A needed access to so that 
she could come to the UK and study. Mr S was assured he would receive 25% of 6.5 million 
USD if he helped her to access her funds. To do so, Mr S needed to pay various legal and 
other fees. Mr S later found out that A was a scammer.  
Mr S made the following payments to the scammer:
Payment Date Amount
1 14/11/18 £500
2 12/12/18 £2,000
3 27/12/18 £2,000
4 08/03/19 £3,800
Total £8,300
In December 2018 Lloyds stopped a payment of around £312 for security checks and asked 
Mr S to go into branch and provide some identification. These blocks were removed on 19 
December after Mr S attended a branch of Lloyds. 
In February 2019 Mr S called Lloyds to say that he made two payments of £2,000 on 12 and 
27 December 2018 but the second payment was made in error. When asked the payment 
reason Mr S said legal fees. Lloyds attempted to recover funds but was unable to do so. 
The scam was uncovered when Mr S tried to make a further payment of £20,000 in March 
2019. The funds were transferred from another account in Mr Ss name into his Lloyds 
account and Mr S went into branch to make a further transfer. Lloyds invoked the Banking 
Protocol and the funds were returned to the originating bank. The police looked into Mr Ss 
concerns but didnt recover any funds. Mr S then contacted Lloyds in August 2021 and 
asked it to refund the money he lost in the scam. 
Lloyds hasnt agreed to refund any of the funds Mr S lost as it says the payments were made 
at Mr Ss request. It tried to recover Mr Ss funds but was unsuccessful. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
shed listened to a call recording when Mr S made the first payment. Having done so, she 
was satisfied that given the amount Mr S was paying for the stated reason of legal fees 
Lloyds didnt need to ask any further questions. The investigator also referred to calls Mr S 
made to check payments had been made on 15 November and 13 December 2018 and said 
she didnt think Lloyds acted unreasonably in not asking further questions. Finally, the 
investigator thought Lloyds couldnt have done more to recover Mr Ss funds. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. He said:
- He made the payments in branch and Lloyds staff knew he was suffering from a 
severe illness. Mr S provided evidence of his medical conditions and said that they 
made him vulnerable and led him to believe what the scammer told him. 
- Prior to making the four payments Lloyds had stopped a payment related to Mr Ss 
care and offered to go to his home in relation to this so Mr S questioned why Lloyds 
hadnt done more when he made larger payments. Mr S said Lloyds bank staff 
should have checked the beneficiaries and should also have asked him security 
questions such as how he knew the payees and what the payments were for. Mr S 
also says Lloyds should have called the police, as it did when he later tried to make a 
£20,000 payment. 
- This service has sent a view recommending that a complaint against another bank be 
upheld and Mr S has received refunds from other banks in relation to the same scam.  
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr S when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ss case?
As the first payment Mr S made was an international payment Mr S was referred to Lloyds 
international payments team. Ive listened to the relevant call, in which Mr S said the 
payment was for legal fees. No further questions were asked, and I think this was 
reasonable given the amount and the reason Mr S gave. It wasnt for a significant amount 
and £500 for legal fees sounds reasonable. 
I have very little information about the other payments Mr S made. I understand they were 
made in branch, but Lloyds has no records in relation to them and says it would be unfair to 
expect staff to recall transactions that were made so long ago. Given what Mr S told Lloyds 
in a call and what is recorded on Mr Ss statements, I know that payments two and three 
went to a different beneficiary to payment one and werent international payments. I know 
nothing about the beneficiary of the fourth payment, but it appears to have been sent to a 
third beneficiary.  
Im not persuaded that any of the payments Mr S made were so unusual or out of character 
that Lloyds should have had concerns about them and asked Mr S probing questions to 
satisfy itself he wasnt at risk of financial harm. In April 2018 Mr S made a payment of 
£6,648.23. The payment method was different to the transfers made as part of the scam, but 
this payment meant transfers of £2,000 and £3,800 wouldnt have stood out to Lloyds. I also 
dont consider that other fraud indicators were present. The payments werent all made in 
quick succession and didnt clear Mr Ss account of funds. Whilst the final payment of £3,800 
was larger than the previous two, it was made around ten weeks after the last scam payment 
and so there wasnt an unusual pattern of spending that Lloyds ought reasonably to have 
been concerned about. 
A balance must be struck between a bank like Lloyds allowing customers to carry out their 
everyday banking as seamlessly as possible and pausing transactions to carry out further 
checks when required. If payments like the ones Mr S made to the scammer were all 
stopped for further checks, there would be severe disruption to legitimate payments. Overall, 
I consider Lloyds acted reasonably in following Mr Ss instructions to make the payments. 
Mr S has referred to his vulnerabilities as a reason why Lloyds should refund the payments 
he made to the scammer. The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) says that a customer is vulnerable if theyre unable to protect themselves 
from a particular scam and in these circumstances says a full refund should be given. But 
the CRM Code came into force after all of Mr Ss payments were made (and doesnt apply to 
international payments) so I cant consider Mr Ss case under it. 
In circumstances when the CRM Code doesnt apply, Id expect a bank to take additional 
steps or measures to protect a customer if it was notified of a vulnerability that affected that 
customers decision-making. Lloyds has said that the first time it became aware of Mr Ss 
vulnerability was during a call on 19 December 2018. Ive listened to this call. Mr S had been 
asked to go into branch to verify a payment. Mr S said he wished to make a complaint about 
this given his age and said he was disabled but didnt provide any further details. So I dont 
think Lloyds was given enough information to go beyond its usual level of protection when 
dealing with Mr S. And in any event, the first two transactions were made before this 
conversation took place. 
Mr S has also said that Lloyds should have called the police when he made the payment 
requests in branch as it did when he asked to transfer £20,000 in March 2019 but I disagree. 
The £20,000 payment request was unusual and one that Id expect Lloyds to have concerns 
about and so ask Mr S proportionate questions in order to be satisfied he wasnt at risk of financial harm. I havent been provided with any information about why Lloyds invoked the 
Banking Protocol, but it seems the size of the payment alone would have been enough to 
prompt Lloyds to complete high value transaction checks. I can only assume Lloyds was 
unhappy with Mr Ss responses and so called the police. But these steps werent necessary 
for the much lower value payment requests Mr S had previously made. Ive said above that I 
dont consider Lloyds needed to intervene further when these payments were made and so 
Lloyds had no reason to invoke the Banking Protocol sooner. 
Mr S has also said that Lloyds should have checked the beneficiary accounts. Lloyds had a 
duty to make the payment to the account details Mr S provided. Confirmation of Payee 
systems were not in place at the time so Confirmation of Payee simply wasnt something 
Lloyds would reasonably have been able to do. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Im not persuaded Lloyds acted unreasonably 
and so Im not asking it to refund any of the funds Mr S lost.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman