DRN-3571521
The complaint
Mr A, Mrs M, Ms M and Mr M complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined 
their travel insurance claim. My references to URV include its agents. 
What happened
Mr A, Mrs M, Ms M and Mr M (who Ill refer to as the group) and two children had a group 
single trip travel insurance policy, with winter sports cover, for a skiing trip theyd booked to 
France from 14 to 21 March 2020. URV was the insurer for the majority of the sections of 
cover under the policy. The scheduled airline failure & end supplier failure cover under the 
policy was provided by another insurer.
On 6 March 2020 the groups flights were cancelled by the airline which had gone into 
administration. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 
a pandemic. The group said they waited to rebook their transport due to the likelihood of 
their ski resort being shut down because of the pandemic. Other European countrys ski 
resorts had already shut or were shutting and they thought it was very likely Frances ski 
resorts would too. 
On 13 March 2020 the group told the holiday provider they cancelled the trip. On 14 March 
2020 the French Government announced the closure of non-essential public places. French 
ski resorts closed from 15 March 2020. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO) advised British citizens against non-essential travel abroad. On 
23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all British travellers abroad to return.
The group had their flight costs refunded through the scheduled airline failure & end supplier 
failure section of the policy through the other insurer. They claimed for their cancelled 
accommodation, ski passes and ski equipment costs (about £2,350) from URV.  
URV declined the claim as it said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the 
policy terms and conditions.
The group complained to us, represented by a family member of one of the group. In 
summary they said:
They acted reasonably in deciding not to travel. If theyd travelled they would have 
had the difficulty and costs of needing to repatriate, which would have been 
particularly stressful with two young children. If they had travelled to the resort it 
would have been closed around the time they would have arrived and they would 
have been covered up to £3,000 under the curtailment section of the policy. 
Their claim should be covered under the policy sections covering piste closure and/or 
catastrophe but URV had told them those sections only applied if they had cut short 
their trip, not cancelled the trip. 
URVs decline of the claim was unfair when it would have paid the claim if they had 
started the trip then aborted it three miles away from home. 
They want URV to pay at least the benefits under the piste closure and the 
catastrophe sections of the policy.
Our investigator said URV had fairly declined the claim.
The group disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that:
URV should have told them that cancelling the trip would invalidate claims under the 
remaining sections of the policy.
URVs delay in assessing the claim meant the bank wouldnt consider a refund under 
legislation to protect consumers for services not delivered if paid by debit/credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that URV must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint the 
group but I find that URV reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out the groups contract of insurance with URV. 
Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to consider what the groups 
policy says about their cover.
The policy says under the information about how the policy works:
Period of insurance 
The period of insurance for all sections except the cancellation section commences 
when you leave home in the UKto start your trip and ends when you have returned 
to your home in the UK The period of insurance under the cancellation section for 
Single Trip insurance commences when the premium has been paid and ends when 
you depart the UK
Most, it not all, travel insurance policies have the same/similar circumstances for the period 
of insurance a policy provides. The group cancelled the trip in 13 March 2020, the day 
before they had been due to leave home for their trip. So URV acted fairly in considering the 
claim under the cancellation section of the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions say URV will cover irrecoverable accommodation and other 
specified costs for trip cancellation in the following specific situations:
If you are unable to travel because:
you or a travelling companion is ill, quarantined, injured or dies before the trip
starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured
or dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or 
your presence being required following a burglary occurring at any time after we 
have accepted this insurance.
you or a travel companion being made redundant.
you or a travelling companion being unable to travel due to the requirements of
HM forces.
The group cancelled the trip because the airline they were due to travel with went into 
administration and they were worried their ski resort would close due to the pandemic even if 
they booked alternative transport. So the reasons the group cancelled their trip isnt one of 
the listed insured events under the cancellation section. There is no cover for the claim 
under that section of the policy.
The group believe they would have had a successful claim if they had started their trip. 
I have to make a decision on what actually happened rather than what might have happened. But even if they had left home and cut short their trip the claim wouldnt have 
been covered under the specified listed insured events in the curtailment section of the 
policy.
Ive considered the two policy sections the group believes should cover their claim. Both 
sections only apply once the group had left home in the UK, which didnt happen. And the 
sections only provide cover in specific circumstances. 
The policy cover for piste closure cover up to £500 for:
the lack of snow in your resort if you are skiing north of the earth's equator between 
1st January and 30th April, or south of the earth's equator between 1st June and 
31 October and it has to close preventing you from skiing at a destination of higher 
than 1600 metres above sea level
towards the costs you have to pay to travel to another resort 
if you are unable to ski if your resort stays closed and there is no other resort 
available, for as long as these conditions exist at the resort.
At the time the group cancelled their trip,13 March 2020, the resort was still open. There is 
no cover for the claim under that section of the policy.
The catastrophe section of the policy covers up to £1,000 for:
reasonable additional costs of travel and accommodation within a 20 mile radius to 
the same standard as those on your booking to enable you to continue your trip close 
to that originally booked if the prebooked accommodation has been damaged by fire, 
flood, earthquake, storm, lightning, explosion, hurricane or the area is quarantined 
due to a major outbreak of an infectious disease.
The group hadnt incurred any additional costs to continue the trip. There is no cover for the 
claim under that section of the policy.
I understand why the group decided to cancel their trip and it wasnt an unreasonable 
decision. But the claim isnt covered by the policy terms. The group cancelled the trip before 
the FCDO advised against non-essential travel, although that advice also isnt an insured 
event for cancellation under the policy. There is no basis on which I can fairly say URV acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
If the group considers that URVs delay in assessing the claim has disadvantaged them in 
making a successful claim against their card provider/s for the lost holiday costs they need to 
complain to URV about that separate matter. If the parties cant agree then ultimately the 
group can make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs M, Ms M 
and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman