DRN-3927998
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S holds with Santander UK Plc. Hes very unhappy 
that Santander began legal action to enforce a possession order when he says hes keeping 
up with the payments required by the court order.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and Santander. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr S mortgage has been the subject of a possession order since 2017 due to arrears. In 
September 2022, solicitors for Santander wrote to tell Mr S it was starting enforcement 
action. There was a pause on that action in the wake of the death of Her Majesty The 
Queen, but resumed after the mourning period. Mr S complained this was unfair because he 
has been maintaining the payments hes required to make towards the arrears under a 
suspended possession order (SPO) from 2017. Santander has paused the enforcement 
action again whilst the case is with us.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She explained to Mr S that 
the current action had nothing to do with the mortgage arrears or the 2017 SPO. It related to 
action being taken by a firm of solicitors representing Mr S freeholder. The solicitors had 
issued a S146 notice under the Law of Property Act 1925, which had the potential to put 
Santanders security for the mortgage at risk. 
Mr S has asked for the complaint to be reviewed and decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mr S has said that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. 
That wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr S a one-sided personal hearing 
to press his case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute. 
On the rare occasions we conduct a direct hearing, it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
Its not my role here to judge the appropriateness of the action being taken by Mr S 
freeholder, or to in any way comment on the likely outcome of that action. My remit to 
confined to assessing whether Santanders response to being put on notice of that action 
was fair and reasonable. 
The action being taken by Mr S freeholder has the potential to result in the forfeiture of the 
lease under which he purchased the property. That lease forms the security Santander holds 
for the money Mr S owes it. If the action were to go in favour of the freeholder, Santander 
could, in a worst-case scenario, find itself with no security and no means of recovering the 
money Mr S owes. 
I dont doubt for a moment that the prospect of losing ones home is a horrible one; 
especially for some in poor health, like Mr S is. But my impartial role means I have to give 
equal consideration to Santanders point of view, and it is clear that Santander is very 
concerned (legitimately so) about the risk of losing its security.  In all the circumstances, I 
cant say Santanders response to the S146 notice is either unfair or unreasonable.
Recently, Mr S asked our investigator if it would help his case if he were to make an offer to 
Santander to repay his arrears. Id remind him that the action hes complaining about hasnt 
happened as a result of his arrears, and it doesnt form part of what Im deciding here. But 
on a more fundamental level, if Mr S is able to pay some or all of his arrears of, it cannot be 
a bad thing for him to approach Santander to discuss what hes able to pay. But it has no 
bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
Theres one further point for me to make. It is important to explain here that lenders will 
generally agree to put enforcement action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that 
power it would undermine our impartiality between the parties to a complaint. It would also 
create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with the intention 
of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate action through the courts to 
recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Mr S, but I would not want him to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell Santander that it must suspend any enforcement action in the event of any 
new complaint being raised with our service, or uphold any future complaint that it refused to 
do so. The more appropriate forum to ask for enforcement action to be suspended is the 
court through which the action is being taken.
Mr S doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr S recourse to a legal remedy of his own against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint  such as, for example, arguing the case he has argued here 
in his defence against court action brought by Santander - wont have been prejudiced by 
our consideration of it. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman