DRN-3641191
The complaint
Mr F complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt 
allow him to take part in a corporate action for shares he held in his SIPP account. He says if 
he had received the subscription rights he would have sold them, and he wants HLAM to pay 
him what he would have received  around £1,900.
What happened
Mr F had a holding of overseas shares, which Ill refer to as E, in his execution only SIPP 
account. In or around April 2021, E announced it would be issuing subscription rights. Mr F 
says HLAM didnt contact him about the corporate action and didnt allow him to sell or 
exercise the rights, meaning they lapsed with no value.
HLAM said an FCA approved prospectus is required for it to take part in a corporate action 
on behalf of its retail clients. As this wasnt the case here, it said Mr F couldnt take part in 
the corporate action so it didnt tell him about it. HLAM said it attempted to sell the rights in 
bulk, but it wasnt given enough time to do so following receipt of the rights, so they lapsed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude HLAM had done anything wrong. She thought it had acted in line with its regulatory 
obligations and its agreed account terms and conditions and that it had received the rights 
too close to the deadline to enable a sale.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
There were approximately five business days to sell the rights and there was sufficient 
volume and quotations to do so.
The investigator didnt obtain enough information from HLAM to exercise independent 
judgement.
The rights were available in Crest/Euroclear as soon as they were issued. 
HLAM was unaware of this corporate action and failed to manage it. 
HLAM should have been proactive, rather than waiting for communication from Crest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here, most of which was set 
out in some detail by our investigator and Im not going to repeat it again here. Im also not 
going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for 
the following reasons:
Im satisfied that HLAM couldnt allow Mr F, as a retail client, to take up the rights in the 
overseas corporate action because an FCA approved prospectus hadnt been issued.
It could have allowed Mr F to sell his rights if the timetable allowed. But Im satisfied there 
wasnt enough time for HLAM to seek instructions from each of its clients and carry out any 
sales before the cut-off date.
I find HLAMs terms and conditions explain what it will do in these circumstances. They say:
We may attempt to sell any rights you receive in a corporate action without your 
prior instruction where (i) you dont have the option to take up those rights (usually 
where they relate to overseas securities) and (ii) we consider that theres insufficient 
time to notify and receive instructions from you in respect of those rights before the 
period for selling closes. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to sell any rights 
you receive. We generally consider five working days or less to be insufficient time to 
notify and receive instructions from you, but this may vary depending on the specific 
circumstances.
And that HLAM acted in line with these agreed terms when it attempted to sell the rights 
without seeking Mr Fs instructions.
HLAM has provided evidence to show that it received the rights late in the day on 4 May 
2021. And that it contacted its market maker on the same day to find out the deadline for 
selling the rights. The market maker replied on the same day to explain the Crest deadline 
was 5 May, so it wouldnt be able to trade.
Our investigator set out the reasons why there is generally a delay in UK brokers receiving 
the rights. And I find that the delays in HLAM receiving Es rights were outside of its control. 
I appreciate Mr F has set out in some detail the operations of both Crest and Euroclear. But 
this complaint is about what HLAM did or didnt do and I dont find it had any control over 
Crest or Euroclears operations and timetable.
I cant comment on HLAMs operational set up and procedures  thats a matter for the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But I dont think its unreasonable that it relies on 
Crest for information about corporate actions. And Im satisfied it was proactive in attempting 
to sell the rights as soon as it received them.
Mr F was able to sell his rights entitlement for E shares held with another broker. But that 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. Im satisfied HLAM didnt do anything wrong for 
the reasons outlined above.Mr F has also suggested our investigator should have sought more information from HLAM. 
But Im satisfied that its provided enough information and evidence for me to reach a fair 
and reasonable conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman