DRN-3598928
The complaint
Mrs G complains (through her representative) that she was mis-sold a Select Platinum 
Account (SPA) in 2015 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs representative says that she discovered in 2021 that Mrs G was paying for an SPA 
which she had no awareness of and was no longer able to use due to her advancing years. 
And her representative says that NatWest should not have migrated her from her previous 
Advantage Gold Account (AGA) to an SPA six years previously in 2015.
NatWest says that the SPA was very similar to the AGA. It says it stopped the AGAs for all 
customers in 2015 and notified Mrs G about the change and gave her the chance to opt out.
NatWest has provided evidence that Mrs G had been an active user of the AGA saving 
money on a loan and other credit. And as no registration was required for the travel 
insurance or car breakdown benefits, she wouldve been covered on holidays or while 
driving. 
NatWest has provided evidence that it communicated regularly with Mrs G both before and 
after the migration. It highlights that its migration letter refers to the fact that the travel 
insurance benefit is available to people over the age of 70 for a small additional annual 
premium, as Mrs G was over 70 at the time of sale. 
So, NatWest says it had no reason to think Mrs G didnt want either the AGA or the SPA.
Ive reviewed all these submissions carefully. I think its possible that the communication 
around the migration may not have worked well due to address changes, but I think Mrs G 
was aware from that she had a fee-paying account after 2015. I say this because she had 
regular communication about the SPA, and the fee appeared on her statements. So, I think 
its more likely than not that the small change in the type of account she had didnt affect her 
wish to keep it.
In my view NatWest should not and could not have automatically stopped Mrs Gs account at 
that point or later without an instruction and authorisation from Mrs G or an authorised 
representative. 
I also think its more likely than not that NatWest had no reason to believe that Mrs G didnt 
want to continue with her AGA or SPA. I say this because she had previously been happy 
with a fee-paying account since 2003 and it had not had any communication from her to say 
she was dissatisfied. And it was still possible for her to use the main benefits at the time of 
migration.
I accept that Mrs G may have been able to use the benefits less as time passed, but it was 
incumbent on her to notify the bank and authorise a downgrade if she didnt want the SPA 
anymore.
I can understand Mrs Gs representative holding the view she does, and I know shell be 
disappointed with my decision, but I dont think that NatWest did anything wrong in this case 
for the reasons Ive given above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman