DRN-4409193
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark 
(Advance) delayed the transfer of her personal pension to another provider, which Ill refer to 
as provider F. She said Advance requested unnecessary information. And that it didnt 
provide information to the parties involved in a timely manner. 
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her adviser, but Ill only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Mrs S had a personal pension with Advance that she wanted to transfer to provider F. I 
understand that provider F first requested the transfer via Origo on 16 May 2022. Provider F 
said that following Advances rejection of the Origo transfer it wasnt possible to process the 
transfer electronically. 
Mrs S said she was told that the transfer was ongoing, although it wasnt able to be 
processed through Origo. She said it wasnt until September 2022 that after chasing 
Advance it said it hadnt received the signed transfer paperwork shed provided. 
I understand that the transfer completed on 14 March 2023. 
Provider F said it sent a letter to Mrs Ss adviser on 31 May 2022 which explained that 
before it could ask Advance for the discharge forms, it needed Mrs S to sign the transfer 
authority. It asked for this to be done within 14 days. It said it received the completed forms 
on 11 July 2022. And that it sent an enquiry letter to Advance on 13 July 2022. 
Mrs S emailed her adviser on 16 July 2022 to ask him about her pension transfer. He replied 
to tell her that hed requested the transfer. But that Advance had said it needed the original 
form, rather than a scanned copy. So the original form had been posted. 
Provider F said Advance told it on 29 July 2022 that it hadnt received the forms to start the 
transfer process. So provider F emailed them to Advance on 2 August 2022. 
Provider F said that the forms, which had been sent as attachments, were password 
protected with Mrs Ss National Insurance (NI) number. Advance replied to say it couldnt 
open the attachments. Provider F asked it to re-try the password itd provided, which it said 
was still Mrs Ss NI number. Advance said the NI number it held didnt open the attachments, 
and asked for a different password. Ive no record of any response from provider F to this 
request.
On 6 September 2022, provider F emailed Advance for an update on the transfer. It said it 
hoped Advance had received the requisite paperwork to proceed with the transfer. Advance 
told provider F on 21 September 2022 that it hadnt received the signed transfer request 
paperwork. It asked provider F to submit it.
On 12 September 2022 Mrs Ss adviser emailed her to tell her hed chased provider F that 
day on her transfer. He said itd sent all the necessary documents. And that itd chased the 
other provider to send updates. He said hed keep checking with provider F on the transfer 
progress as itd taken a lot longer than anticipated. He suggested that a complaint should be 
made to Advance about this. 
On 23 September 2022, provider F wrote to Advance about the transfer. It asked for 
information about the transfer. And included Mrs Ss signed letter of authority from 16 May 
2022.
Mrs S called Advance about her transfer on 23 September 2022. She said itd told her that 
the only correspondence it had on its system was a 7 September 2022 email from provider F 
asking why the transfer hadnt been done. And that it didnt have a transfer form. She said 
shed been told that it was possible that the paperwork had been sent to a completely 
separate business from Advance that wouldn't have recognised her policy number. She said 
Advance had also told her that it and provider F were both signed up to Origo and that if this 
was used the transfer would be acted upon within 24 hours. 
Mrs Ss adviser replied to Mrs S. He said provider F had just told him that itd sent forms and 
chasers to the email address and postal address Advance had just told Mrs S to use. He 
said he would call it to find out why the money hadnt been sent, as he felt provider F had 
sent the forms to the correct team. 
Advance said it received a letter from provider F on 26 September 2022 asking for transfer 
information. It noted that the NI number wasnt correct, so it asked Mrs Ss adviser to check 
that both parties had the correct details. It said it also asked for the transfer to be submitted 
electronically, given both it and provider F had signed up to use Origo.
On 30 September 2022, Mrs Ss adviser told her that provider F had requested the transfer 
via Origo on 16 May 2022. And that Advance had rejected this on the 19 May 2022, stating 
that it needed transfer and discharge forms. He said provider F had been sending these and 
chasing Advance. And that the latest correspondence had been sent on 23 September 2022.
Mrs S replied to her adviser on 9 October 2022. She said that shed spoken to provider F 
and itd told her that if the request had been made via Origo, it couldn't be questioned or 
refused. She said shed like to ask provider F if it had approached the right company. 
Mrs Ss adviser replied to tell her that provider F had contacted the right company as itd 
sent its correspondence and requests to the addresses and email that Advance had 
provided to her. He also said that Advance was now asking Mrs S to confirm her NI number. 
After Mrs S had provided confirmation of her NI number to her adviser, he wrote to her on 14 
October 2022. He said hed called Advance because the NI number shed provided matched 
what hed already given to provider F. But that Advance held the wrong NI number. Mrs Ss 
adviser said hed updated this with Advance. And itd confirmed that itd received the transfer 
request from provider F on Origo. He said that Advance had told him that provider F had 
sent the Origo request to the wrong place. But he wanted to find out why itd taken five 
months for this to be sent to the correct place. 
On 18 November 2022, Advance told provider F that itd written to Mrs S on 13 November 
2022 to ask her to verify some extra information. And that it would be in touch after itd 
received this to proceed with the transfer.
On 21 November 2022, Mrs S wrote to her adviser to tell him shed received a letter from 
Advance asking her to confirm that she wanted her pension transferred to provider F. Her 
adviser confirmed this was correct.On 24 November 2022, provider F said it emailed Mrs Ss adviser to tell him that Advance 
was still waiting for some information from Mrs S and that it couldnt proceed with the 
transfer without it. 
Advance said it received the completed form from Mrs S on 2 December 2022. And that it 
sent a valuation statement to provider F on 5 December 2022. It said it received an email 
from provider F on 15 December 2022 asking for an update. And that on 10 January 2023, 
itd informed provider F that a valuation statement had been sent by post on 5 December 
2022.
On 8 December 2022, Mrs Ss adviser wrote to her to ask her if shed sent the confirmation 
to Advance. He said hed received a letter from provider F saying Advance was still asking 
for additional information/forms. Mrs Ss adviser said Mrs S confirmed shed sent the 
confirmation to Advance. 
Mrs S complained to Advance, through her adviser, on 13 January 2023. She felt her 
transfer to provider F had been unnecessarily delayed. And that shed been asked to sign 
some documents that hadnt previously been provided. She also wanted her adviser to be 
compensated for the time hed spent pursuing her transfer.
Advance said that provider F asked it to provider a transfer quote and discharge form on 16 
January 2023. And that it had done so on 27 January 2023.
Provider F wrote to Mrs Ss adviser on 2 February 2023 to ask it to get Mrs S to complete 
the transfer paperwork itd enclosed. 
Advance issued its final response to the complaint on 3 February 2023. It didnt think itd 
done anything wrong. It said it first became aware that Mrs S wanted to transfer her pension 
to provider F on 6 September 2022. And that when itd received the transfer paperwork a few 
weeks later the NI number quoted was incorrect. This meant that it wasnt until December 
2022 that it received all its requirements and was then able to provide provider F with a 
valuation statement. It said it was still waiting to receive further instructions from provider F.
Advance said that the only documents itd asked Mrs S to sign were sent on 14 November 
2022. It said these forms ensured Mrs S was aware that by transferring her pension she 
might lose her protected pension age of 55. It said it hadnt been in a position to provide this 
form to Mrs S until itd received the correct authority from provider F.
Advance said Mrs Ss adviser could be entitled to claim compensation. And asked him to 
provide it with a breakdown of the time hed spent on the transfer, bearing in mind its 
explanation of legally recoverable costs.
Mrs Ss adviser was unhappy with Advances response and rejected it the same day. He 
said that even if Advance had only received the transfer request in September 2022, thered 
still been a five-month delay to the transfer. 
Mrs Ss adviser said that neither he, Mrs S or provider F were responsible for the incorrect 
NI number. He said the correct NI number had been provided, but that Advance had stored it 
incorrectly. And questioned why the error hadnt been identified on 21 September when itd 
initially contacted provider F. He also noted that hed confirmed the correct Nl number on 13 
October 2022, so felt there shouldnt have been any reason for the transfer to have been 
cancelled. He also noted that the correct NI number had been provided to Advance in March 
2022, so felt itd had the opportunity to highlight that there were inconsistencies much earlier 
than it did.Mrs Ss adviser also asked Advance why, after it had received Mrs Ss confirmation in 
December 2022, it hadnt sent the transfer quote and discharge papers alongside the 
valuation statement. He felt it had been clear that provider F would need them. And that a 
further six to seven weeks of delay had been caused by this. 
On 8 February 2023, Mrs Ss adviser wrote to her to tell her that Advance had sent another 
form for her to sign before it would proceed. Mrs S completed and returned these. 
Advance issued a further final response to the complaint on 10 February 2023. It still didnt 
think itd done anything wrong. It said the NI number it had on record for Mrs S was the 
same as the one that her then adviser had provided, and which had been reconfirmed in 
February 2019. It said its vetting process could only begin after it received a valid transfer 
request. And that until itd established the correct NI number it couldnt start the transfer 
process. As the NI number it held was incorrect, it said it wasnt until the correct NI number 
was confirmed on 13 October 2022 that it had been able to start the transfer process.
Advance acknowledged that it had received letters of authority in March 2022 with the 
correct NI number. But said that the process it followed for letters of authority didnt require it 
to check the NI number, just the name, address and date of birth of the customer. 
Provider F said that on 24 February 2023 it sent Advance its Portfolio Transfer Instruction. 
And that the transfer completed on 14 March 2023, with the monies being received and 
credited into Mrs Ss account on 17 March 2023. 
Mrs S was unhappy with Advances response to her complaint. So on 5 April 2023 she 
brought her complaint to this service through her adviser. She made the following complaint 
points:
- Advance shouldve informed provider F that it didnt have the signed transfer 
paperwork before it was chased about the transfer.
- Advance didnt need to write to Mrs S about her protected pension age. This had 
already been covered through a call with her. And was therefore an unnecessary 
hold-up that couldve been done on original receipt of the transfer documentation, or 
when Advance received this again in September 2022. But instead it had waited until 
November 2022. 
- She was unsure why Advance was waiting to receive a further transfer request from 
provider F in December 2022 when at this point the transfer shouldve been 
processing. 
- She questioned why Advance hadnt started the transfer after receiving her 
confirmation. She said that provider F had received the transfer form and discharge 
papers from Advance on 27 January 2023. And asked why these hadnt been 
provided earlier. And why there were so many forms and documents and 
confirmations required for a simple transfer. 
- Mrs S felt that Advance had unnecessarily prolonged the transfer. And that it had 
made it overly complicated. She wanted compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience.
- Mrs Ss adviser also said hed spent multiple hours on the transfer. So was seeking 
compensation for the time hed spent. 
Our investigator asked both Mrs S and Advance for further information about the complaint. Mrs S provided some of the additional information requested. He also asked provider F to 
provide any records of a transfer request being submitted using Origo. Advance didnt 
respond to the request. Provider F didnt provide any records of using Origo.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He considered that Advance had 
contributed to a delay of 28 working days in the transfer of Mrs Ss pension. But he didnt 
think that Advance had asked for any unnecessary information. 
Our investigator thought that the first transfer request Advance had received that it could 
review was on 26 September 2022. This was because it hadnt been able to open the initial 
request sent in early August 2022, which it had clearly explained to provider F. He also felt 
that provider F hadnt sent a request to Advance via Origo. 
Our investigator felt that Advance should put Mrs S back into the position she would likely 
have been in, but for its delays. He felt Mrs S wouldve invested in the same funds with 
provider F. But that the investment wouldve been made 28 working days earlier. He also felt 
that Advance should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
delay.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to be for review. 
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 5 October 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Advance caused 
unnecessary delays to the transfer. But I dont quite agree on the length of those delays. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered if Advance received a valid transfer request via Origo in May 2022.
Did Advance receive a valid transfer request via Origo in May 2022?
I can see that on 30 September 2022, Mrs Ss adviser told her that provider F requested the 
transfer via Origo on 16 May 2022. But that Advance had rejected this on 19 May 2022 
because it needed transfer and discharge forms. But Advance said that provider F sent the 
Origo request to the wrong place. 
The evidence shows that a transfer request was sent by post, but addressed to a business 
different from Advance, using the registered address for a group Advance was connected to. 
Ive no evidence that provider F received a response to this. 
I agree with our investigator that as the registered address for the whole group was used, 
rather than the individual administration address for Advance, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to expect it to have been forwarded to Advance. I say this because there was no 
reference to Advance in the correspondence. So someone wouldve had to have reviewed 
the client information to forward it to the right place. And this is not what the registered 
address is intended for. Given this, I also agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be 
reasonable to conclude that Advance received Mrs Ss transfer request at this stage.
Ive not seen any evidence that the Origo request was sent to Advance in May 2022. And 
Ive seen no evidence that provider F ever made a later request for the transfer to be carried 
out via Origo. In fact, from the evidence Ive seen, it appears that Advance suggested the 
use of Origo at the end of September 2022. But that provider F told this service that after Advances initial rejection of Origo, it wasnt possible to process the transfer electronically. 
Therefore I cant fairly hold Advance responsible for not using Origo for the transfer.
I next considered when Advance had first received a valid transfer request.
When did Advance first receive a valid transfer request?
I can also see that Mrs Ss adviser thought provider F had sent all of the required documents 
to Advance by 12 September 2022, but that wasnt the case. Advance had made it clear to 
provider F that it hadnt been able to open the password-protected documents - which had 
been sent by email in early August 2022 - using Mrs Ss correct NI number as the password. 
I acknowledge that this inability to open the documents was probably because Advance held 
an incorrect NI number for Mrs S. But I dont consider it shouldve realised this at that time. I 
can also see that Advance asked provider F for a different password, but got no response. 
Therefore Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Advance responsible for 
any delay leading up to the re-submission of the transfer documents. Advance said it 
received these on 26 September 2022. So Im of the view that this is the start point for the 
transfer request.
I next considered whether Advance progressed the transfer in a timely manner.
Did Advance cause any delays to the transfer process?
Based on the testimony and evidence provided by Advance, Mrs S and her adviser, and 
provider F, I detailed in the background section of this decision what happened when.
Ive gone on to consider if there were any points when Advance couldve acted more quickly 
to progress the transfer. 
On 6 September 2022, provider F emailed Advance for an update on the transfer. But 
Advance didnt reply until 21 September 2022, when it said it hadnt received the signed 
transfer request paperwork. 
I agree with our investigator that Advance shouldve responded more quickly that it did here. 
And that it wouldve been reasonable to have replied within five working days. Advance 
actually took 11 working days to reply. So I consider it caused an avoidable delay of six 
working days here.
Once Advance had received the transfer authority from provider F on 26 September 2022, it 
realised that the NI number it held for Mrs S didnt match the transfer paperwork. It told 
provider F about this on 30 September 2022. And asked it to correspond with Mrs Ss 
adviser to make sure all parties had the correct information. I consider that it was reasonable 
for Advance to take the steps it did to ensure the NI number was correct. And Im satisfied 
that it couldnt proceed with the transfer until this was resolved. So I dont consider that this 
caused any delay.
I also considered whether Advance shouldve noticed that it held an incorrect NI number for 
Mrs S earlier than it did. Mrs S considers that it shouldve been flagged when information 
was first requested, or when the transfer was first received. 
I can see that a letter of authority was initially sent to Advance in March 2022. And that this 
included Mrs Ss details, including her NI number. So I understand why Mrs S feels this way. 
Advance said that the NI number isnt required information for the acceptance of a letter of authority. So it didnt check this detail against its records when it received the letter of 
authority. 
From what Ive seen, Advances usual process for accepting a letter of authority in these 
circumstances doesnt require an NI number. So its process doesnt include a review of that 
number if it is provided. Therefore I cant fairly say that Advance shouldve noticed the 
discrepancy when it received the letter of authority. Ive also seen no evidence that Advance 
shouldve recognised the error earlier than it did. 
The evidence shows that Mrs Ss adviser then contacted Advance on 13 October 2022 to 
correct the NI number it held for Mrs S. And that Advance then received a new transfer 
request on 31 October 2022. At this point, Advance wanted to ensure that Mrs S was aware 
that she might lose her protected pension age of 55 on transfer. So it wrote to her on 14 
November 2022 to ask her to confirm this was the case. 
Mrs S doesnt consider that Advance needed to take this step. She felt this was an 
unnecessary hold-up that couldve been carried out earlier. While I dont agree that this step 
was unnecessary, I do consider that Advance couldve written to Mrs S a few days earlier. I 
say this because I think five working days is a reasonable time frame for this. As Advance 
took ten working days before it wrote to Mrs S, I consider that there was another avoidable 
delay of five working days to the transfer here.
Advance received Mrs Ss completed form on 2 December 2022 and issued a valuation by 
post to provider F on 5 December 2022. Provider F chased Advance for an update on the 
transfer on 15 December 2022. It wanted to know if Advance had got what it needed from 
Mrs S. Advance didnt reply to this email. So provider F chased for a response on 5 January 
2023. It eventually replied by email on 9 January 2023. It said itd received a response from 
Mrs S. And also attached a copy of the valuation itd sent on 5 December 2022. 
Provider F replied to Advance the same day. It asked it to provide a transfer quote and 
discharge forms. Advance then provided everything requested by email on 27 January 2023. 
I agree with our investigator that there are several potential avoidable delays here. The 
transfer quote and the discharge forms werent sent as promptly as they couldve been. And 
there was a delay in replying to provider Fs requests for an update. It also appears that 
although the 5 December 2022 letter to provider F was correctly addressed, it didnt receive 
it. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that Advance shouldve sent the transfer value and the 
discharge forms on 5 December 2022, when it issued the valuation to provider F. But if it 
had, its possible that provider F wouldnt have received this information as the post mightve 
gone missing like the actual letter Advance sent to provider F that day. 
I also consider that Advance shouldve replied to provider Fs request for an update on the 
transfer earlier than it did. The request was received on 15 December 2023, so, allowing five 
working days, it shouldve been replied to by 22 December 2022, not 19 December 2022 as 
our investigator noted. As Advance actually only replied to this request on 27 January 2023, 
rather than 16 January 2023, as our investigator noted, I consider this caused a further delay 
of 23 working days.
I acknowledge that Mrs S said she didnt know why Advance was waiting to receive a further 
transfer request from provider F in December 2022. But Ive seen no evidence that it did so.
After Advance had provided the transfer quote and discharge forms to provider F on 27 
January 2023, Mrs S signed and returned the discharge forms to provider F. They were then forwarded to Advance. The transfer completed on 14 March 2023. 
I agree with our investigator that theres no evidence that Advance caused any delays to the 
transfer process after 27 January 2023. So I consider that the total delay Advance is 
responsible for is 34 working days.
Based on what Ive seen, I agree that Advance should compensate Mrs S for unnecessarily 
prolonging the transfer. I consider that under the circumstances of the complaint, and the 
impact it has had on Mrs S, Advance should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the delays have caused her. 
Im unable to require Advance to compensate Mrs Ss adviser for the time hes spent on the 
transfer as hes not an eligible complainant in this case. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Advance nor Mrs S responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs S back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Advances error. I think this wouldve meant Mrs S wouldve 
invested in the same funds with provider F. But that the investment wouldve been made 34 
working days earlier.
Any loss Mrs S has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from provider F at the date of my final decision on the basis that itd been invested 
34 working days earlier and subtracting the current value at the date of my final decision of 
the pension from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress 
is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ss pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs S has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Details of this calculation should be provided to Mrs S and her representative in a clear and 
simple format. I also intend to require Advance to pay Mrs S £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Sterling ISA Managers Limited 
trading as Advance by Embark must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right 
section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman