DRN-1872727
 
The complaint
Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 complain that National Westminster Bank plc wrongly recorded adverse 
information on their credit files. They say this caused problems when they wanted to move 
house and apply for a new mortgage.  
What happened
Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 have a mortgage with NatWest. In mid 2019 they contacted a broker 
about applying for a mortgage. They say their applications for an agreement in principle 
were declined due to adverse information on their credit files. This included a late payment 
marker recorded by NatWest relating to their mortgage.
NatWest said it made an error and removed the late payment marker. It paid £1,250 
compensation for the upset caused. Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 say this isnt enough. They had to 
make numerous calls about the late payment marker, and it was a month before it was 
removed. They were unable to go to another mortgage lender and had to port the NatWest 
mortgage. They say NatWest didnt respond in a timely manner to their requests for 
additional borrowing, and they had to borrow about £5,000 from family to complete their 
purchase.
Our investigator said NatWests offer  to remove the late payment marker and pay 
compensation of £1,250  was fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
its errors caused. Mrs L1 had confirmed they hadnt had any financial loss.
Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest accepts it made errors and this caused Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 trouble and upset. Its 
right that it puts matters right. 
NatWest shouldnt have recorded the late payment marker; this was an error. It might have 
been the reason - or part of the reason - Mrs L1 and Mrs L2's application for an agreement 
in principle was declined. But I dont know if Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 would have been offered a 
mortgage by another lender if this information hadnt been on their credit file. Or if they'd 
have been offered a mortgage on better terms than the mortgage they ported, and for the 
amount they wanted to borrow. I understand there was other adverse information on their 
credit files. And their applications would have been subject to the lender's criteria and 
affordability checks.
I also dont know if NatWest would have offered Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 additional borrowing if it 
had processed their request earlier. Fortunately Mrs L1 and Mrs L2 were able to borrow 
money from family and port their mortgage. Their property purchase completed. Mrs L1 says they don't have financial loss, and their purchase did complete. But Mrs L1 and 
Mrs L2 must have been worried and frustrated when it took longer for their credit files to be 
updated than theyd hoped. They didnt get a timely response to their request for additional 
borrowing and were concerned they wouldnt be able to complete their purchase. Mrs L1 has 
described the effect this worry had on her, resulting in her taking time off work. Its right that 
NatWest pays compensation for the upset caused. Having considered what both parties 
have said, I think the £1,250 compensation offered by NatWest is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint because I find the steps taken and 
compensation offered by National Westminster Bank plc is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman