DRN-4014610
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Openwork Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to facilitate the payment of a tax-free 
cash lump sum and the purchase of a lifetime annuity. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him as it didnt take into account his personal circumstances and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision of February 2023 in which I said that I was likely to not 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint, and my provisional 
findings, are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr W approached an appointed representative of Openwork in early 2019 to discuss his 
pension and retirement needs. They completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr 
Ws circumstances and objectives. In summary Mr W was single, he was 55 years old, he 
was employed but had been off work sick for a period of time, he was looking to take early 
retirement from his job, which would allow him to work part-time in the future. An initial 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk deemed it to be balanced  but after further 
discussion and referral to a pension specialist adviser at Openwork it was agreed that Mr W 
wasnt willing to accept any investment risk and that he preferred a guarantee.
On 4 June 2019, Openwork advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits to enable him to 
release a cash lump sum and to purchase an annuity to provide him with an immediate 
income. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to 
enable Mr W to take the maximum tax-free cash (around £65,000) to allow him to meet his 
immediate capital requirements with the remainder helping to meet the shortfall in income 
until he received his state pension. It said the level annuity would provide an income of 
around £7,695, which along with his other provision was sufficient to meet his needs for life, 
and with 100% value protection included, his beneficiaries could benefit from any amount 
under the value protected amount when he died.
Mr W duly accepted the recommendation, he received his tax-free cash and the balance of 
his transferred pension monies were used to purchase an annuity.
In 2021 Mr W complained to Openwork, via a representative about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. In summary he said that Openwork failed to identify him as a vulnerable 
consumer and so didnt fully assess his circumstances. As a result, the advice he received 
has put him in a worse position than had he retained his DB scheme.
Openwork didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said that Mr Ws health condition 
was fully discussed with him at the time of the advice and that Mr W considered he no longer 
had health issues having stopped working. It said it considered Mr Ws objectives and needs 
and produced a recommendation that was suitable. It said that in doing so, it thoroughly 
explained the difference between Mr Ws DB scheme and the recommended product during 
a presentation phone call. It added that all options were considered and discussed with Mr 
W. Finally in relation to the point about Mr W being a vulnerable consumer, it said there was 
no evidence that Mr W was vulnerable at the time; that the advice shouldnt have been given 
to him; or that he wasnt in a position to act on his own. But in any event it considers the 
advice wouldve remained the same.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr W referred his complaint to our service and an investigator 
upheld it and recommended Openwork pay compensation. In summary they said they didnt 
think the transfer was suitable and Mr W shouldve been advised to stay in his DB scheme. 
They said that looking at the transfer analysis Openwork produced, including the Transfer 
Value Comparator, it was evident Mr W was going to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value at retirement than those offered by the DB scheme  albeit they acknowledged 
that Mr W didnt invest his transferred monies but bought an immediate annuity. They said 
that because Mr W had indicated he was willing to return to work, his earned income along 
with early retirement from his current workplace pension scheme wouldve likely covered his 
expenditure, which wasnt very high. They said Mr Ws desire for a £20,000 cash lump sum 
to visit his son and buy him a gift couldve been achieved without transferring as his 
schemes early retirement offered him a lump sum in excess of this. But they didnt think 
accessing tax-free cash for the reasons Mr W wanted was suitable advice anyway. Overall 
they didnt think there was a compelling need that meant transferring was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Openwork disagreed. In summary it highlighted that the Transfer Value Comparator was 
based on a joint life annuity which Mr W didnt need. It said Mr Ws lifestyle wouldve likely 
had an impact on the enhanced annuity rate obtained; it questioned what Mr W had told 
them about there being a 75% chance hed return to work given what his representative said 
about his vulnerability; it questioned therefore whether his outgoings were relatively low in 
reality; and it questioned the investigators view that there was no pressing need or that the 
need was short term.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS).
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Openwork's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, I intend to not uphold the 
complaint or make any award in Mr Ws favour. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Openwork 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests.
Financial viability
As required by the regulator, Openwork produced analysis to show what sum of money Mr 
W would need to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same benefits as the DB scheme 
at 65 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming he took a full pension. And this 
showed that a sum of £389,403 was needed compared to Mr Ws transfer value amount of 
£261,142 - a difference of £128,261. It also produced analysis showing the growth rate or 
critical yield required to match Mr Ws DB scheme benefits at age 65; 5.4% assuming a full 
pension and 3.7% assuming Mr W took a lump sum and a reduced pension (both returns 
based on a single life annuity.)
But Openworks advice and recommendation in this case was not based on Mr W retiring at 
65 and investing his pension monies in the meantime in the belief that Mr W would be better 
off by transferring  its advice was based on addressing Mr Ws immediate income need at 
age 55. So while Im satisfied this analysis was clearly explained to Mr W, both in the 
suitability report and in the presentation call in which Openwork discussed its 
recommendation with Mr W, and that because of his unwillingness to adopt any investment 
risk the required returns werent achievable, I dont think its necessary in this case for me to 
consider in detail the financial viability of the transfer. What I need to consider in this case 
are the other reasons which Openwork believes mean the transfer was suitable despite the 
above.
Income need and access to tax-free cash
In my view Mr Ws circumstances, needs and objectives at the time of the advice were clear 
 Mr W wanted to raise a lump sum to visit his son who lived abroad, buy him a gift and give 
him funds so he could visit the UK. Mr W envisaged he would need around £20,000. At the 
same time, because Mr W had stopped working and he was considering taking early 
retirement, he had an immediate income need.Openworks advice paperwork records that Mr Ws basic or minimum income need was 
around £6,300  but after further discussion and interrogation of Mr Ws expenditure by the 
adviser, it was apparent that his need was greater. For example Mr W said that it was likely 
hed have to start paying rent in the future (Mr W indicated that his family members who had 
a share in the property he lived in were keen to extract and share in the potential rental value 
they were foregoing) meaning Mr Ws minimum annual expenditure was likely to be around 
£11,300. And to live more comfortably and allow Mr W to take holidays for example, it was 
recorded he needed around £17,000 net a year.
Mr Ws early retirement pension from his then current employer provided him with around
£3,500 a year  it was initially recorded as being around £5,000, but Mr W subsequently 
chose to receive a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension. This meant Mr W needed 
around £7,700 a year to meet his likely future expenditure need. It was recorded that Mr W 
was looking to take around six months off before hed then look to work part-time to 
supplement his income. He believed he could earn around £200 net a week. When asked by 
the adviser how likely this was, Mr W said that he was 75% certain he would start working 
again.
So on the basis of the above income and expenditure analysis, it seems to me that Mr W 
had a somewhat pressing need for additional income  at least around £7,700 a year to 
meet his basic living costs. Mr W didnt have any savings he could use, so the only asset 
available to him was his deferred DB pension scheme.
I accept that Mr Ws desire for £20,000 as I set out above could not reasonably be 
considered necessary, or in and of itself a compelling reason to access his tax-free cash 
earlier than his schemes normal retirement age. But because Openworks recommendation 
enabled Mr W to meet this objective while at the same time also meeting his pressing 
income need objective, Im not currently persuaded that Openworks recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Mr W was not prepared to accept any degree of investment risk, so in my view it was 
appropriate that Openwork recommended a guaranteed product in the form of an annuity to 
provide the income Mr W needed. Im mindful that the annuity recommended was level 
meaning that it wouldnt rise with inflation - but the adviser considered this noting that Mr Ws 
other DB pension would increase as would his state pension later on. So given this, and 
because Mr W needed to generate the maximum income from his pension in the short term, 
I dont think the recommended product was unsuitable. While the annuity income along with 
his other DB pension would only broadly meet Mr Ws minimum expenditure need, by 
accessing his tax-free cash, which was due to be around £65,000 (later increased to around 
£71,000 following a revised transfer value quotation) this coupled with his expected part-time 
income would allow Mr W to use this flexibly to top up his income and meet his desired 
income objective of £17,000 a year until he received his state pension. Once Mr W reached 
state pension age, his state pension and combined private pension provision would then 
meet his desired income need going forward.
Although this likely meant that Mr W wouldnt be able to take as much income from his 
pension as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme  he was due to receive a 
pension of around £10,000 a year at age 65 - I think this was necessary in the 
circumstances. In my view transferring his pension, releasing his maximum tax-free cash 
and buying an annuity to provide a guaranteed level income, would have enabled Mr W to 
meet his income need until his state pension became payable at 67.Ive thought carefully about whether Mr Ws objective couldve reasonably been met by 
staying in the DB scheme and taking early retirement. But Im not persuaded that it could 
have. I say this because Openworks analysis showed that if Mr W took immediate early 
retirement, hed be entitled to either a full pension of around £4,700 a year or a lump sum of 
just over £24,000 and a reduced pension of around £3,700 a year - so significantly short of 
the £7,700 Mr W needed. The tax-free lump sum was also not enough to allow Mr W to use 
this to provide the difference he needed to top-up his income until he received his state 
pension.
I can see that Mr Ws representative has referred to a letter from Mr Ws DB scheme 
trustees which referred to a Bridge the Gap option. This appears to indicate that Mr W could 
choose to receive an extra amount of pension in the region of £4,800 from the date of his 
retirement until state pension age, whereupon his pension income would then permanently 
reduce by around £6,700. While I cant say for certain that this option was available to Mr W 
or that it was considered by Openwork, in my view it still wouldnt have met Mr Ws objective.
While he wouldve received an initial higher income of broadly the same as the 
recommended level annuity, he would not have had access to the amount of tax-free cash 
he needed to supplement his income need. Furthermore Mr Ws income would then reduce 
once he reached state pension age meaning his income would be lower at this point than the 
income hed receive by following Openworks recommendation, despite the increases that 
would have applied in the interim. So Im not persuaded this was a viable alternative. 
I can see that Mr W and his representative have referred to his health problems at the time   
Mr W says that because of his health issues he didnt believe this would allow him to 
continue to work any time soon and in fact he hasnt worked since. But from listening to the 
fact-find phone call Mr W had with the adviser, its clear that the subject of his health was 
discussed. In my view Mr W was clear here that his health problems were solely related to 
work and that now hed removed himself from the situation, his health wasnt a problem. The 
adviser also asked Mr W what the chances were of him returning to work part-time as hed 
indicated, and he said he felt there was a 75% chance. Mr W indicated that he wanted to 
work indicating that he was bored. So I think it was reasonable for the adviser to have 
considered that Mr W would return to work at some point to supplement his income and that 
it was reasonable for them to have factored this into the recommendation. That said it is my 
view that by releasing the maximum amount of tax-free cash, Mr W could still likely meet his 
income need if he didnt return to work so long as he was careful in how he used this money 
to supplement his income  something the adviser told Mr W later on the recommendation 
presentation call when he said: ...your tax-free cash has got to last you.
So for these reasons, I think Mr Ws needs could only be met by transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
Death benefits
While not a key reason for the transfer recommendation, Mr W was keen for his son to 
benefit from his pension upon his death. Mr W was single and he was clear with the adviser 
that he did not have any need for the spouses pension that the DB scheme provided. 
So, I dont think losing these benefits disadvantaged Mr W. And I think he preferred the 
ability to pass on whatever remained of his pension to a beneficiary of his choice  in this 
case his one - on his death. So by Openwork recommending an annuity with a 100% value 
protection, this enabled Mr W to do that.
SummaryOverall I think there were compelling reasons, which lead me to believe that in Mr Ws 
particular circumstances at the time, it was in his best interests to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. While Mr Ws desire for capital expenditure of £20,000 wasnt pressing and a good 
enough reason alone for transferring, in my view Mr W did have a pressing need for income 
in the short and medium term, which remaining in his DB scheme couldnt provide him with. 
Mr W didnt have any other assets available to him to meet his objective and because it was 
only his intention to return to work part-time, his earning capacity was reduced. So I think he 
had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than his normal scheme retirement 
age to supplement the recommended annuity income along with his other DB scheme 
income. And only a transfer out of the DB scheme would provide Mr W with the amount he 
needed to last him until he reached state retirement age and received his state pension.
By transferring Mr W was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income in retirement and 
his pension income was likely to be lower than he wouldve otherwise have been entitled to. 
But I think that in the circumstances this was necessary. And while Mr W subsequently went 
on to spend all of his tax-free cash, based on Openworks advice that Mr W had to make his 
tax-free cash last to supplement his income, I think he wouldve likely had sufficient overall 
income to meet his needs until his state pension became payable.
For these reasons Im not currently persuaded that Openworks recommendation was 
unsuitable or that it didnt act in Mr Ws best interests.
I said above that Mr W went on to spend all of his tax-free cash in a short space of time and 
his representative has said he was a vulnerable consumer, something Openwork ought to 
have been aware of and taken into account when it advised him.
But in my view there is nothing to indicate that it was reasonable for Openwork to have 
known this at the time or been put on notice of Mr Ws vulnerabilities. I can see that Mr Ws 
representative says it wouldve been clear from looking at Mr Ws bank statements of his 
issues  but in my view there was no reason for Openwork to request or review these. Mr W 
wasnt for example borrowing money that required an affordability check. Ive already said 
that Mr W engaged with Openwork openly about his health, which he said wasnt a problem. 
And during the discussion about Mr Ws income and expenditure, the adviser interrogated 
the amount he was spending and Mr W said that he didnt spend a lot. In my view Mr W was 
fully engaged in the advice process and there was nothing to indicate that Mr W didnt 
understand the recommendation or wasnt in a position to make his own decisions. And so I 
dont think it was reasonable for Openwork to have taken any additional steps in dealing with 
Mr W - I dont think it treated him unfairly or unreasonably in this regard.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with my provisional decision. In doing so it provided 
evidence of Mr Ws health, including the medication he was on at the time of the advice, and 
it also provided a social media clip, which it says demonstrates Mr Ws vulnerability at the 
time of the advice. In summary it also said:
It was a matter of fact that Mr Ws DB scheme provided a Bridge Gap option, which 
wouldve provided him with a lump sum in excess of the £20,000 he needed, but this 
option wasnt discussed with Mr W. Openwork deliberately misled Mr R and he 
wasnt able to make a fully informed decision. 
Remaining within the scheme would have incurred no charges and left Mr W with a 
substantially inflation proofed pension more aligned to his immediate needs.
The property Mr W lived in and was 40% owned by him was due to be sold 
imminently and the cash to be generated from the sale was ignored by Openwork.Openwork concluded Mr W was a spender and had no experience in managing 
money, yet they provided him with a substantial cash sum to manage himself.
Its clear neither the ombudsman nor Openwork believe Mr W was vulnerable at the 
time.
The annuity questionnaire highlights Mr Ws vulnerability, his health and his lifestyle 
yet Openwork ignored this and chose not to explore things further or ask for bank 
statements to show Mr Rs spending. In effect Openwork order took.
Openwork didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including thinking carefully about what Mr Ws representative has said in 
response to my provisional decision, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, Ive not 
been given reason to change my mind  so Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
before and for the same reasons. In my view Mr Ws representative has not raised anything 
new here and theres not much more I feel I can usefully add to what Ive already said.
As I said in my provisional decision, I can see that Mr Ws DB scheme appeared to offer a 
Bridge the gap option, which allowed Mr W to take a higher income initially reducing once 
he reached state retirement age. And I said that it wasnt clear Openwork considered this. 
But even if it had, Im still not persuaded this was a viable alternative. While the initial income 
offered with this option wouldve been around the same amount as the recommended 
annuity, once Mr W reached state retirement age it would reduce significantly. This would 
mean Mr Ws income need at this point would not be met. In acting in Mr Ws best interests, 
Openwork not only had to consider Mr Ws immediate needs, but it also had to consider his 
longer term needs into retirement. And Im not persuaded this option wouldve suitability 
addressed both for the reasons Ive explained.  
Mr Ws representative says that Mr Ws property he lived in, which he part owned, was due 
to be sold imminently and Openwork ignored the cash that this would provide Mr W. But Ive 
not seen any evidence to support this. Mr W told Openwork at the time that it was likely hed 
have to start paying rent in the future because he indicated that his family members who had 
the remaining share in the property he lived in were keen to extract and share in the 
potential rental value they were foregoing  not that they planned to sell the property.
I can see that Mr Ws representative considers neither I nor Openwork are persuaded that 
Mr W was vulnerable at the time and points to the evidence it has provided in support of his 
vulnerabilities. Im sorry to hear about Mr Ws situation and the most recent events theyve 
described. But the issue for me to decide here is whether Openwork knew, or it ought 
reasonably to have known about Mr Ws vulnerabilities at the time of the advice, and if so, 
whether it ought to have acted differently and/or altered the advice and recommendation it 
gave.
But my view here hasnt changed. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Openwork asked Mr W about his health. And in my 
view, Mr W was clear here about his belief that his health issues were solely related to work and that, now hed removed himself from what he saw as the source of the problem, his 
health wasnt a problem. Equally, when Openwork interrogated and challenged Mr W over 
his income and expenditure, Mr W said that his socialising for example wasnt extreme and 
that he didnt spend much. I think it was reasonable for Openwork to have relied on what 
Mr W told them. As Ive also already said, I think Mr W was fully engaged in the advice 
process and there was nothing to indicate that he wasnt in a position to make his own 
decisions or that he didnt understand the advice he was given. So I remain of the view that it 
is not reasonable to suggest Openwork ought to have known about Mr Ws vulnerability 
based on the interactions it had with him. It follows that I dont think it was reasonable for it to 
have done anything differently or taken any additional steps in dealing with or advising Mr W 
- I dont think it treated him unfairly or unreasonably in this regard. 
Overall, based on what I think it is reasonable for Openwork to have understood about 
Mr Ws overall circumstances and needs at the time, I think its recommendation was suitable 
and I think it would be unfair to conclude that it didnt act in Mr Ws best interests.
My final decision
For the reasons contained within my decision, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award in Mr Ws favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman