DRN-3365679
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of two defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension schemes (OPS) to a personal pension plan. Mr B says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint so to keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. Ill also refer to these two pensions as OPS1 (the larger pension) 
and OPS2 (the smaller pension) respectively. 
What happened
Mr B approached Portal in 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. A fact-find 
was produced by Portal as a result of a telephone call with Mr B. The information gathered 
by Portal about Mr B was broadly as follows:
Mr B was 55 at the time and divorced with no dependents. He had some health 
conditions but was mainly in good health overall.
Mr B had a main income earning £1,900 per month (net). He had a car loan, said to 
be around £6,000 which was being paid down monthly, and £5,000 in savings. He 
appeared to have no other assets or liabilities. Mr B was in rented accommodation 
and paying £280 per month. He had disposable monthly income after expenses of 
around £900.
Mr Bs two pension schemes had a combined cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of around £150,000. OPS1 had a CETV of around £98,000. OPS2 was a pension 
Portal said Mr B was currently still an active member of. Its estimated CETV at the 
time was around £52,000.
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr B had an aspiration as 
of 2015 to access his pensions more or less immediately, although he said he didnt 
intend to actually stop working until the age of 60. 
Portal issued a suitability report on 19 June 2015. The report recommended he should not 
transfer his pensions but leave them where they were instead. Nevertheless, in the same 
report, Portal said that because Mr B was adamant he wanted to transfer out of his two 
OPSs, it would help him do this. It said it could treat him as an insistent client, a term used 
in the industry to describe a situation where a client goes against the advice of a 
professional financial adviser.
Mr B says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal. His complaint has been referred to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr B ultimately went against its advice of 19 June 2015. It says that he was 
advised in the suitability report of that date that he ought to stay inside the DB schemes, and 
it was Mr B himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out to access cash. It says this meant 
he became an insistent client. Ive therefore considered this point first.
There was limited guidance available specifically about insistent clients at the time of this 
advice, but nonetheless, the regulator placed important general obligations on firms like 
Portal. These included the overarching principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 
- skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
I have also taken account that the regulator had expressed concerns and expectations about 
how businesses should execute insistent client business in connection with defined benefit 
transfers. It did this in July 2014 when it published TR14/12 Enhanced transfer value 
pension transfers. 
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mr Bs objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was simply used by 
quickly and easily Portal to transact what Mr B thought he wanted to achieve.
Was Mr B an insistent client?
Everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of important 
responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr B thought he wanted, I think his 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that he would be clearly guided on 
the basis of his circumstances and means. The information ought to have been clear, fair 
and not misleading. In particular, it should be clear that the business has not recommended 
the transaction and the risks of the proposed transfer ought to have been pointed out.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
On first look, the suitability report of 19 June 2015 appeared to be cautioning against 
transferring out of Mr Bs DB schemes. However, the report said Mr B had wanted to be 
treated as an insistent client and had indicated this on a form hed signed the previous 
week. Ive looked at this form and note the first part involved Mr B selecting from one of two 
tick-box pre-determined options which had been set out by Portal. In my view, these were 
not the only options available to Mr B and Portals advice ought to have fairly reflected this. 
The second part of the form showed Mr B had signed a type of disclaimer, again this had 
information on it about why he wanted to transfer out. These statements came from Portal, 
as opposed to Mr B himself. I therefore dont think theres any evidence showing the idea to 
go against the advice came from Mr B; it was directly presented to him by Portal.
Also, despite Portal saying its advice was against transferring out of the scheme, there was 
a clear underlying bias in the suitability report in favour of actually transferring out anyway. 
Directly under the reports recommendation it said Mr B had told Portal he wanted to transfer out and so Portal made another recommendation just a few lines down from the first. This 
second recommendation was directly at odds with the first; it said Mr B would be treated as 
an insistent client and that Portal would carry on with the transfer process. The report said, 
my recommendation is therefore that you transfer the pensions summarised in the next 
section to a  personal pension. By following this recommendation you will:
Meet your stated objectives.
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a tax-free cash lump sum to meet your 
needs; you have elected to take £37,701.
Overall, I think all this was merely setting the scene for Mr B to transfer out anyway and the 
Declaration Form Portal had previously got Mr B to sign was intended basically to indemnify 
Portal from any responsibility. 
So, Portals actions and inactions here fitted what the regulator later described as a 
papering exercise. Mr B says he never actually met anyone from Portal and I dont believe 
the evidence is plausible that Mr B even was an insistent client. Mr B wasnt experienced in 
these matters and so was likely to be heavily influenced by his advisor. Portal produced 
mainly templated forms and statements which failed to highlight the risks and issues of him 
giving up his pensions, in a way that was personal to him. Other options for accessing cash, 
such as taking out a loan, bore no real relevance to Mr Bs situation in my view. So I dont 
think any alternatives were genuinely sought to Mr Bs apparent objectives. 
Given that I dont think Mr B met the definition of an insistent client I went on to consider 
whether I thought this made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. In particular, Ive 
given a great deal of thought to whether transferring out could be said to be suitable.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. This means Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Financial comparisons 
Theres no real dispute in this case that Mr B could be losing out in the longer term by 
transferring out of his DB scheme. After all, Portal itself says its recommendation of 19 June 
2015 originally said he shouldnt be transferring out. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses werent required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The suitability report quotes a critical yield of 13.5% to match the benefits of OPS1 at age 
60. For OPS2, the critical yield of 11.1% was quoted for benefits at the age of 65. Ive noted 
the different retirement ages being provided here and Ive also noted Mr Bs aspiration was 
to access his pension much earlier anyway, at the age of around 55. However, the point 
here is that by Portals own admission, the amount Mr Bs pensions would need to grow 
outside these schemes to even match leaving them inside, was very high.  
On the same basis as the figures and ages above, the relevant discount rates were 3.8% per 
year for 4 years to retirement and 4.4% for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year. 
So, I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate. I have also considered what Portal said about Mr Bs attitude to risk being 
moderately adventurous. However, based on his financial circumstances and lack of any 
investment knowledge or experience I think this categorisation was too high. And there 
would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
schemes only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 11.1%, I think he was highly likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB schemes at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with his realistic attitude to risk.
For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Portal described Mr Bs main objectives as being to access his pension early to pay off debts 
and buy his council house. However, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that these were real 
objectives. I note, for example, that Mr B appeared only to have a car loan, set out as it was 
on Portals own fact-find. Everything Ive seen suggests this was properly being paid off and 
well within his means. I havent seen any supporting evidence he was actively looking or 
even able to buy the property he was in. Portal also said the amount he needed in cash 
was £37,701. Theres no indication why he needed this much. I note, however, that this was 
exactly the same amount hed be able to access by way of his 25% tax-free element for both 
pensions. 
Portal also recommended a flexible access drawdown for the remaining funds. However, 
based on the evidence Ive seen Mr B didnt have the need for either the tax-free cash or 
drawdown. He had a disposable income to use each month and modest savings. So, whilst 
obviously an attractive prospect for Mr B in some respects, accessing his pension needed to 
be considered very carefully in his circumstances and balanced against other aspects of his 
overall situation and longer-term retirement security. I dont think its clear that Mr B had a 
genuine need to transfer out of his two DB schemes to access cash to the exclusion of 
everything else.
Mr B was only around 55 at the time of the advice and based on both what Ive seen and 
been told by Portal, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the 
fact that it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
schemes. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was suitable for Mr B to give up all the guaranteed benefits the 
DB schemes came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in later life would be. I 
cant see evidence that he had such an urgent need for cash at this point. Accessing the 
pension at 55 was therefore to the exclusion of other priorities, especially when considering 
what hed have to forgo to get at them. These pensions represented his retirement provision 
and I dont think Portal explained any of this to Mr B in a meaningful way.
Death benefits
I dont think these types of benefits featured much in Mr Bs case but in any event whether 
the death benefits were improved following a transfer depended on how much remained in the pension funds at the point of Mr Bs passing. Given average life expectancy, and the size 
of the funds, it was always likely that the funds would be entirely depleted prior to Mr Bs 
death, providing no death benefits at all. 
Suitability of investments 
Portal recommended that Mr B invest his funds in a personal pension plan. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB schemes wasnt suitable for Mr B, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB schemes in a far clearer and 
more persuasive way. And so the investment in the new fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I have set out in this decision why I dont think Mr B met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr B had said he wanted to achieve  access to his pension early.
As a result of this finding, I went on to consider whether the transfer out was suitable. Portal 
facilitated the transfer and recommended a course of action which was not in Mr Bs best 
interests. As regards suitability, given Portal itself has said it advised against a transfer, it 
would be hard for it to argue that the transfer was in fact suitable. And I agree that it was not. 
The financial comparisons showed hed be worse off transferring and there was no coherent 
assessment of Mr Bs retirement needs. Ive also noted Portal said Mr B was still an active 
member of OPS2.
Mr Bs existing DB scheme contained a number of valuable guarantees and benefits which 
made transferring out something that needed a great deal of consideration. Portals job 
wasnt to simply transact what Mr B thought he wanted  it was required to understand his 
needs and provide him with suitable advice, relevant to his particular circumstances. 
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether, if Mr B had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. With his circumstances and 
lack of investment experience, Mr B went to Portal seeking advice, which he paid for. I think 
its more likely that he would have followed that advice had it been delivered with the skill, 
care and diligence required and shown to be in his interests.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in his DB schemes if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pensions isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
In acknowledgement of the importance of Mr Bs pensions and the knock-on effect and 
emotional impact of the unsuitable advice, Portal should pay £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman