DRN-4260656
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she has overpaid on her mortgage with Skipton Building Society and is 
due a refund.
What happened
Mrs D took out a mortgage jointly with her now ex-husband, Mr D, in 2000. It was repaid in 
2005, when Mr and Mrs D re-mortgaged to another lender.
In 2022, Mrs D complained to Skipton. She said Skipton had charged too much interest, and 
she and Mr D had paid too much. She wanted a refund.
Skipton said it was confident it hadnt overcharged Mr and Mrs D. It also said the mortgage 
had been arranged by an independent broker, so Mrs D should contact the broker if she felt 
shed been misled.
Mrs D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Skipton consented to us 
looking into the complaint, even though the mortgage had been taken out and repaid a long 
time ago.
Our Investigator didnt think Skipton had done anything wrong, so she didnt recommend that 
it pay Mrs D anything.
Mrs D didnt accept that. She still thought she had been overcharged and is due a refund. 
The complaint was therefore passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has explained her severe financial difficulties, and I was sorry to read that shes in 
such a difficult situation. 
Ive looked carefully at the mortgage offer Skipton issued to Mr and Mrs D in 2000, at the 
interest it charged, and at what Mrs D thinks has gone wrong. Having done so, Im not going 
to require Skipton to pay her any compensation or a refund. 
The mortgage offer says that the interest rate was variable, not fixed. It also says the 
variable rate would follow Bank of England base rate, plus 0.75%. That is also set out in the 
2005 redemption statement. 
Mrs D says that, if the interest rate had been 6%, for example, 6% of the amount she and 
Mr D borrowed (which was £81,700) is £4,902. She says they should therefore have paid 
Skipton a total of £81,700 + £4,902 = £86,602 over the 25-year term of the mortgage. She 
says the monthly mortgage payments should therefore have been a lot lower than they were, 
and she should get a refund of the overpayments. 
However, this isnt how mortgage interest works. The percentage interest quoted is the 
interest charged per year, not the total interest over the whole mortgage term. Interest is 
calculated daily and added to the mortgage monthly. I find nothing to indicate that Skipton 
agreed to operate the mortgage in any other way. 
My conclusion is that Skipton hasnt overcharged Mrs D, so I dont require it to pay her 
anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman