DRN-2556262
The complaint
Mrs L complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly refused a claim she made 
for storm damage to her property under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs L contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Following heavy rain shed noticed 
water coming into her attic. 
Initially, once Lloyds explained about the policy excess, Mrs L said shed carry out the 
repairs herself, but she later asked Lloyds to register a claim as she was worried about her 
roof following comments from her builder. Lloyds visited Mrs Ls property shortly after to look 
at the damage, but having done so, it declined the claim. It didnt think the damage could 
have been caused by a one-off storm event.
Mrs L complained to Lloyds, she said her builder had confirmed the damage to be storm 
damage. She said the builder had told her if the damage had happened gradually hed 
expect to see damp and water marks inside the property, but as there werent any he 
thought it was a storm that had caused the damage. 
Mrs L also asked for her premiums to be returned as she wasnt covered for storm damage 
as she thought she was. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in declining the claim. Mrs L didnt 
accept that, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls policy does cover loss or damage caused by a storm, so on the face of it; damage 
caused by a storm is potentially covered.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section.
Mrs Ls policy doesnt define what would be considered a storm. But it seems to accept there 
were significant wind speeds around the time Mrs L says the damage happened. So I dont 
think its in dispute that there were likely storm conditions. 
I also think the damage is consistent with storm damage, in that Mrs L noticed water coming 
into her property from the roof, which could be impacted by storm conditions.
But like our investigator, I dont think it can be said that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. So I think the answer to the last question is no and so Lloyds hasnt acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim. Ive explained why below.
The report carried out by Lloyds says that materials on the roof have deteriorated and that 
the heavy rainfall only highlighted an existing problem. The issue seems to be with a section 
of flat roof that extends from Mrs Ls main roof. The photographs provided by Lloyds show 
the front edge of the flat roof covering has started to lift and come away. It also shows that 
where a window meets the roof, the material around the window has worn away and is 
cracked. Both of these issues appear to be the cause of allowing water to get into the 
property. I think the photographs support Lloyds position about the state of the roof, and that 
such damage would be unlikely as a result of a one-off storm event.
Mrs L has provided comments from the builder who fixed her roof. In his opinion, the roof 
was fine; just the corner was damaged. Where there is conflicting evidence, our role is to 
decide whats more likely to have happened and which piece of evidence were most 
persuaded by. In this case Im more persuaded by Lloyds report. There isnt any other detail 
provided from Mrs Ls builder other than notes of what he repaired. Mrs L said he told her if 
there was an ongoing problem there would be damp and water marks inside the property. 
But I think its likely that water wasnt getting into her property until the storm highlighted the 
issue. But the fact it hadnt happened before doesnt mean that Lloyds has to cover the claim 
as storm damage. 
Overall, the comments from Mrs Ls builder arent enough to persuade me that Lloyds acted 
unfairly in relying on its report to decline the claim for storm damage. On balance, taking 
everything into account, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Mrs L has said that her premiums should be returned as she isnt covered as she thought 
she was, and Lloyds have accepted the insurance knowing the age of the property. But Im 
satisfied that she is covered for storm damage if it is shown that storm is the cause of the 
damage. And just because this claim isnt being paid in this instance doesnt mean Lloyds 
needs to refund her premiums. So Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman