DRN-3556623
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc refuses to refund payments he says he lost to an 
investment scam. 
Mr M has referred his complaint using a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill treat all 
submissions as having come from Mr M.
 
What happened
Mr M came across an individual on a trusted media platform. The individual (Hannah) 
showed that she traded in Forex. Mr M researched Hannah and saw that she had a popular 
media and social media platforms with a large following. Mr M sent Hannah a message on 
one of her social media platforms enquiring about how long shed been trading. She 
explained it was eight years, so he trusted her experience and credibility. Hannah asked Mr 
M for a small payment to start with and she asked that he; send his payment to Moonpay; 
exchange it for crypto; and deliver the crypto to a wallet address with a trading company 
called CardinalFX.
Mr M saw that Hannah was generating profits for him which were quite large and he was 
happy the investment was doing well. He proceeded to invest further funds and made 
payments via various crypto exchanges. From 1 February 2021 to 17 February 2021, using 
his Visa debit card  linked to his Barclays current account  Mr M made five payments in 
total to the crypto exchanges totalling £6,392.07  with the final payment being £4,087.38. 
When Mr M wanted to withdraw his profits, he was unable to find the option to do so on 
CardinalFXs trading platform, so he contacted Hannah. She asked that Mr M pay fees to top 
up his account. When he did so, he was asked to pay further fees to an account in Monaco, 
which he did. After this, Mr M was asked to pay a different fee and was sent documentation 
purporting to be from the IRS in order to persuade Mr M to pay a tax requirement. He also 
paid this fee. Mr M was asked to pay further monies and he realised at this point, hed been 
scammed. Mr M discovered CardinalFXs trading platform was a cloned website which had 
negative reviews. 
Mr M complained to Barclays. It considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded he had no 
chargeback options because he paid legitimate crypto companies. Barclays also felt the first 
three payments were not out of character and as the payees were legitimate, it didnt think a 
more in-depth conversation would have prevented the payments. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They were of the view that chargeback 
claims wouldnt have succeeded and the payments werent all that unusual for Mr M. They 
did feel that a warning from Barclays wouldnt have made a difference in any event. Mr M 
didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr M.
Barclays concluded it had no chargeback rights that covered the situation Mr M found 
himself in. He paid legitimate crypto exchanges, not CardinalFX and he would have received 
a service from the crypto exchanges which would have involved changing his £sterling into 
crypto before sending it to the wallet address he supplied it with. His disagreement is with 
CardinalFX, not the crypto exchanges he paid. Barclays could only have processed 
chargeback claims against the recipient of Mr Ms payments, which were the crypto 
exchanges. I consider Mr M stood no reasonable prospect of success if Barclays had 
processed chargeback claims against the crypto exchanges and so I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by choosing not to do so.
Fraud prevention
I dont think Barclays could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr M 
lost. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms 
and conditions of the account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Ive taken into account what Mr M has said and whilst I dont agree the first four payments 
were so unusual that Barclays ought to have intervened, I do agree that the final payment of 
£4,087.38 ought to have prompted an intervention from Barclays. This payment was 
sufficiently unusual for Mr M when considering the way in which he operated his account and 
I think Barclays should have contacted him to ask some further questions around the 
payment he was making.
I would have expected Barclays to be familiar with cryptocurrency fraud at the time of Mr Ms 
payment, but by Mr Ms own admission, hed carried out the necessary checks on Hannah - 
the individual that told him about the opportunity and was trading on his behalf. He noted she 
had a large following and had been trading for eight years, so he trusted her expertise. 
There were no credible warnings published about CardinalFX until the month after Mr M 
made his payments, so I dont think Mr M would have given Barclays cause to suspect he 
was the victim of fraud or a potential scam. And so, I dont think, on balance, Barclays could 
have said anything to change Mr Ms mind about making this payment. Hed already invested by that point and had seen profits and was bought into the entire scam. He hadnt 
experienced problems with withdrawals at that point and even when he later experienced 
problems with withdrawals, he was further scammed into making multiple payments that he 
believed were plausible. So, Im inclined to agree with our Investigator, that a warning 
wouldnt have made a difference to Mr M. 
 
This means that as Barclays didnt interact with Mr M at the time of the payments  and Ive 
concluded that an intervention from Barclays wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Ms 
decision to pay  Im satisfied Barclays didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent 
the payments before they were sent.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ms loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman