DRN-3919288
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) acted unfairly 
when it declined his credit card application and gave no reason for doing so.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a credit card with Barclays in 2021 and this was rejected, so he 
reapplied six months later and again his application was rejected. Mr B says Barclays 
havent provided him with any explanation why his credit card application was declined, and 
its hard credit searches have left a negative impact on his credit file. Mr C wants Barclays to 
explain why he has been declined, as he has been informed his credit score is good. Mr C 
also wants Barclays to provide a modest credit limit to prove he can borrow and repay the 
debt and additionally for it to remove the hard credit searches from his credit file. 
Barclays says Mr Cs credit card application didnt meet its credit scoring criteria and it was 
unable to offer any specific reasons for being declined as this would mean divulging its credit 
scoring process, which it wasnt prepared to do. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt feel Barclays needed to provide a reason why Mr Cs credit card 
application didnt meet its criteria. Additionally, the investigator says Mr C would have known 
credit searches would be conducted at the time of his application and she couldnt tell 
Barclays it must now remove those. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr C to learn his credit card application had been 
declined without a full explanation being provided by Barclays as to why. When looking at 
this complaint I will consider if Barclays needed to provide any further details as to why Mr 
Cs credit application was declined, and if it should remove the credit searches it conducted 
from Mr Cs credit file. 
While I understand Mr C feels Barclays should give him a reason why his application didnt 
meet its credit criteria, especially as he feels he has a good credit score, Im not fully 
persuaded by his argument. I say this as businesses like Barclays are entitled to have in 
place its own credit criteria before it agrees to any credit application and an individuals own 
credit score wouldnt necessarily be the only criteria taken into account when making any 
credit decision. 
Even though Mr C may not agree, its also worth saying its not the role of this service to tell 
banks like Barclays what that lending criteria must consist of, nor that it must divulge to any 
applicant the reason behind any lending decision it makes  after all that would be 
considered sensitive business information and its a commercial business decision for 
Barclays to make. 
Thats not to say if Mr C had approached a different lender it may have used different criteria 
and may have possibly approved a facility, as all lenders will use its own credit criteria when 
making lending decisions. 
Additionally, as far as the credit searches are concerned, Mr C would have been made 
aware prior to any credit card application such searches would be carried out, so I cant say 
Barclays did anything wrong when it carried out those searches and recorded them on Mr 
Cs credit file.
With that in mind it would be unfair of me to ask Barclays to remove those searches, as it 
was a fair and factual reflection of what happened here, and Barclays do have an obligation 
to accurately report this to the appropriate credit reference agencies. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman