DRN-1068157
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mrs D that she had a choice about 
it. But Mrs D says it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was optional.
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of Mrs Ds application form for the credit card. This included 
a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show whether she wanted to take 
it out. And the yes box has been ticked.
If Mrs D didnt want the PPI, I think she couldve ticked the no box. So I think Barclaycard 
did make it clear to her that she had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs D chose to take it, 
knowing she didnt have to.
Barclaycard says it recommended the PPI to Mrs D, so it had to check that it was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right 
for her. For example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And shes told us she didnt have any savings or other 
means she couldve used to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Barclaycard had to give Mrs D clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have been 
useful for Mrs D if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mrs D off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
 
 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because:    Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell 
     Mrs D, that was unfair.
    To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman