DRN-4094003
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr N was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement. Mr 
N experienced issues with the car which couldnt be resolved and MotoNovo agreed that the 
car could be rejected.
Mr N wasnt able to reach agreement with MotoNovo on the appropriate redress. In 
particular Mr N didnt think MotoNovo should make a deduction from his refund of monthly 
payment to reflect fair use. He said the car had increased in value since he acquired it and 
that all of his payments should be refunded.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which I explained that, in cases where a 
rejection is agreed, Id expect the business to refund any deposit and refund monthly 
payment subject to a deduction for fair use. I said that in this case, Mr N had covered over 
10,000 miles in the car since the point of supply and it was fair for MotoNovo to make a 
deduction for fair use based on one monthly payment for every 1000 miles. I explained that I 
didnt think that any increase in the value of the car was a good reason not to allow 
MotoNovo to make a fair use deduction because the right to deduct for fair use was 
contained in the relevant legislation. I also said that I wasnt persuaded that the car had 
increased in value in any event, as the value of the car would be the car in its current 
condition i.e. with the fault.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
MotoNovo accepted my provisional decision. Mr N raised some queries about what I was 
recommending and sent some further evidence about the value of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything but my decision hasnt changed. Im not persuaded that the value 
of the car in its current condition is more than the value of the car at the point of supply. And, 
as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think the value of the car is relevant to the right of 
the business to make a deduction for fair use.
Putting things right
To put things right, MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr N
Refund the deposit together with simple interest of 8% per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund monthly payments calculated net of fair usage deduction of £1885.50 together with 
simple interest of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay a sum of £377.66 to Mr N to reflect loss of use
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman