The complaint
Ms D says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her. Ms D says the lending was unaffordable 
for her, and she got into financial difficulty. She had to borrow further to keep up with the 
loan repayments. If MYJAR had checked her credit record it would have seen Ms D had 
other defaults and other debts.        
What happened
This complaint is about one payday and three instalment loans MYJAR provided to Ms D 
between June 2016 and August 2017. Ms Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 06/06/2016 07/06/2016 1    £100.00 £131.20
2 27/06/2016 22/09/2016 3    £175.00   £86.01
3 05/03/2017 20/07/2017 6    £300.00   £97.11
4 03/08/2017 Outstanding 12 £1,575.00 £238.86
The second of our adjudicators to assess the complaint didnt think that loans three and four 
should have been given. When compared to Ms Ds income and expenditure that MYJAR 
had recorded, the repayments were unsustainable for her. 
MYJAR didnt agree with the adjudicator but offered to uphold loan four, offset this against 
the amount outstanding on the loan and Ms D wouldnt have any further commitment to 
MYJAR.
We put the offer to Ms D, but she didnt want to accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
DRN-1883300complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ms D didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Ms D had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.When Ms D applied for loan three, the amount had increased compared to earlier borrowing 
and the term was for six months, double that of previous borrowing. MYJAR has given us 
details of Ms Ds income and expenditure it recorded before it agreed to loan three. Ms Ds 
monthly income was £1,300 and to be deducted from this  using MYJARs internal credit 
scoring  was £397 (monthly income standard) and expenditure of £728. This only left Ms D 
with a disposable income of £175 and after paying the loan repayment of £97, would have 
meant she was only left with £77 per month. And bearing in mind the loan was to be repaid 
over six months, I think Ms D would have struggled to make those repayments on a 
sustainable basis. 
And for loan four, the amount being borrowed had significantly increased to £1,575 and the 
term had further doubled to 12 months. Ms Ds monthly repayment amount for this loan had 
correspondingly increased and stood at £238.86. So, taking into account Ms Ds recorded 
income and expenditure for loan four, this would have left her in a negative position.
Taking this into account, I dont think either of these loans should have been given. The 
repayments for them were unsustainable for Ms D which I note is one of her complaint 
points.
So, like the second adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans three and four 
and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do 
If the outstanding balance due on Ms Ds loan has been transferred to a third party MYJAR 
should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms D towards interest, fees and 
charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms D originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Ms D as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Ms D having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Ms D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms D. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation to loans three 
and four.                                                                                                                                  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman