DRN-4073645
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about her car insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited regarding a claim 
she made to it when a van reversed into her.
What happened
Mrs R told Tesco about the incident, reporting that the car was having some mechanical 
issues. Mrs R thought Tesco would write the car of, but it sent an engineer to inspect it. 
Mrs R felt like the engineer wasnt listening to her, she later complained to Tesco that he 
only seemed take a cursory look at her car, not sitting in it or starting it. He felt it could be 
repaired, and a garage a little way from Mrs Rs home was found. Mrs R wasnt happy about 
the extent of the repair or the location of the garage, so Tesco agreed to consider an 
estimate from Mrs Rs local manufacturer garage.  
Mrs Rs local garage felt the car would cost £3,976.04 to repair, including painting, checking 
of warning lights and a mechanical repair. Tescos engineer felt no painting would be needed 
 as the part requiring replacement came ready painted and he didnt think the mechanical 
issue was accident related. He also felt that, for the replacement part, the total labour 
charged, was too high. Adjusting the estimate with all that in mind, the engineer said the car 
could be repaired for £1,704.08.
Tesco told Mrs R its garage could do the work. Or she could arrange for her garage to do it. 
In that respect it would round the sum offered up to £2,000 (an increase of £295.92) to 
account for any distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs R, noting it had paid £100 
compensation earlier in the claim process too. Mrs R agreed to the settlement but told Tesco 
she remained unhappy. She complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt that Tesco had settled the claim fairly. He noted there had been some 
service failings from Tesco but felt the £395.92 it had paid in compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs R said she was disappointed in the view. She said that Tesco had not acted fairly in any 
way and that it should be accountable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repairs
I appreciate that Mrs R thinks there was a mechanical issue caused by the accident. But 
Tescos engineer felt that was unlikely because the engine bay and wheels were not 
impacted or affected by the accident. I dont think that is an unreasonable conclusion for a 
motor engineer to come to, and I dont think he reasonably needed to sit in, start or drive the 
car to do so. Also, whilst I know the repair estimate from the manufacturer garage includes a 
mechanical repair, that doesnt equate to an opinion that such a repair is needed due to this 
accident. So Im satisfied by the decision Tesco reached in this respect.
The mechanical issue was only a small part of the repair cost  equating to around just over 
£100 to the overall estimate. Mrs Rs estimate also includes paintwork, as well as removing 
and refitting things like door parts, wing mirrors and wheelhouse shells. The engineer said 
the replacement part comes painted, and his view was the doors and wings werent affected 
by the accident. They are seemingly scratched, but the van reversed into the centre of 
Mrs Rs front bumper. So I think the engineers view is reasonable. I note hes deducted all 
of the paint costs  materials, labour and VAT, and about half of the labour for removing and 
refitting  nearly nine hours of work is estimated for whereas he thinks five and a half is 
reasonable. Having taken everything into account I think the sum calculated by the engineer 
for the work necessary to fix the likely accident related damage, is fair and reasonable.
Service
Clearly Mrs R felt like the engineer wasnt listening to her when he visited. I wasnt there so 
I cant know what was said. But, if he didnt do so, he should have taken some time to help 
Mrs R understand that he was not dismissing her view that there was a mechanical issue, 
rather that he, in his experience, just didnt agree with her it was related to the accident.  
I can understand why Mrs R was unhappy about the location of the garage Tesco intended 
to use  it was about an hour away from Mrs Rs home. But Im also mindful that Tesco 
doesnt control the availability of the garages in the area and it did offer to consider an 
estimate from a garage of Mrs Rs choice. 
I think its fair to say though that Tesco did provide some poor service here. There were 
certainly some unsatisfactory delays at the start of the claim. There was also an instance 
where Tescos update to Mrs R caused her to believe that her estimate had been accepted 
in full, when that wasnt actually the case. I accept that Mrs R felt she had to call and email 
Tesco a lot in order to get anything done or any answers. I think its also fair to say though 
that Tesco has recognised itself that it failed Mrs R at times, and it has offered 
compensation. In the circumstances here I think the compensation paid by Tesco of £395.92 
is fair and reasonable, so I wont be making it pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont make any award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman