DRN-2766975
The complaint
Mr B has complained that BW Legal Services Limited are chasing him for a debt which he 
feels they havent proven.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan from 2019, which was sold from the original creditor to a new 
owner in October 2020. The new owner brought on BW Legal to manage the account on 
their behalf.
Mr B says he wants proof that the debt has been properly purchased  specifically, the deed 
of assignment. Otherwise, he feels the debt is only alleged. He feels that BW Legal are 
harassing him. He also says the original creditor wrote off his debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They were 
satisfied this was Mr Bs genuine debt, which had been sold to the new owner, and so it was 
fair for BW Legal to contact him about it.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I can understand if Mr B wanted to make sure that he really did owe this debt to the current 
owner, as he wouldnt want to pay the wrong people.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including the credit agreement in Mr Bs name  which 
confirms the loan was paid into his genuine bank account. Ive also looked at the statement 
of account, which confirms the balance. And at the notice of assignment, where the original 
lender confirmed theyd sold Mr Bs debt to the new owner. Ive certainly not seen any 
compelling evidence to suggest that this is not Mr Bs account. Im satisfied that it is his debt. 
And so I think its fair that BW Legal have been pursuing him for it.
BW Legal have provided the relevant notice of assignment, which I think is sufficient to show 
that the new owner owns the debt. Its not clear why Mr B would also like to see the deed of 
assignment, which is a private document between the original creditor and the current 
owner. The deed would contain business-sensitive information, but would not contain 
anything that Mr B needs to see, and BW Legal did not have an obligation to provide this 
document to him. So I think its reasonable that they havent.
I also think it was reasonable that BW Legal asked Mr B to pay back the debt that he owed. 
And I cant see that BW Legal communicated with Mr B excessively or unreasonably. 
Amongst his correspondence, Mr B made some points surrounding the enforceability of the 
debt. As our investigator explained, only a court can look at whether a debt is legally 
enforceable or not  thats not something I have the power to determine. With that said, I am 
aware that there are websites and forums that make big promises about clearing debts using 
obscure legal arguments. Just in case Mr B has been relying on those, I would warn that if 
something seems too good to be true, it usually is. Id strongly recommend seeking legal 
advice from a properly qualified and verified person before attempting to use those same 
kinds of arguments in a court.
Mr B pointed out that the original creditor have recorded the debt as being written off on their 
end, and I can completely understand why he raised this. Thats normally just a way of 
reflecting that Mr B doesnt owe the original lender the money anymore  because he owes it 
to the new owner instead, who BW Legal are working on behalf of. Its worth noting that the 
write-off on the original creditors system is recorded from the same time the debt was sold 
to the current owner. If the original creditor hadnt written the debt off on their end, then the 
records could have potentially shown that Mr B owed the debt to both the original creditor 
and the new owner at the same time  and of course that wouldnt have been right. But just 
to clarify, the debt does still exist, and Mr B does still owe it  just to the current owner 
instead of the original lender. As our investigator said, he is also free to contact the original 
creditor or complain about them separately if he feels theyve mis-recorded things.
I hope I can reassure Mr B that it is quite normal for debts to be bought like this, and that BW 
Legal still have a duty to deal with him appropriately, including setting up repayments that 
are affordable. He might want to get back in touch with BW Legal to see what assistance 
they can offer him in repaying the debt. Ive also sent Mr B the details of charities who can 
give him free advice and help in dealing with debts. And he can always get back in touch 
with our service as a separate complaint if he later feels that BW Legal arent taking his 
situation into account when working out how to repay the debt.
But as things stand now, I think BW Legal have acted fairly, and I think its reasonable for 
them to ask Mr B to repay the money he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman