DRN-3423299
The complaint
Ms W complains about the handling of her claim by Ageas Insurance Limited following a car 
accident under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms W was involved in an accident where a third party drove into the side of her 
car. She made a claim to Ageas under her policy. The car was inspected and damage to the 
drivers side door was identified. Ms W claimed additional damage was caused during the 
collision. Ageass engineer didnt think this was the case. 
Ms W didnt want Ageas to arrange repairs. As a result, it provided her with a payment in lieu 
of the repairs and the claim was then closed as a non-fault incident. 
Ms W contacted Ageas again in August 2020. She says when the car was returned there 
was no fuel in it. This meant she had to walk to a petrol station, buy a can of petrol and then 
walk back. She also says a number of interior panels had been removed and wires left 
exposed by the garage. When asked why this wasnt reported earlier Ms W says it was 
because of Covid. 
Ageas says the car was collected by the garage with no petrol in it. It says there was no 
work needed that entailed removing the interior panels and Ms W provided no evidence to 
support this. Its garage says the damage claimed wasnt something it caused. 
Ms W contacted Ageas again in June 2021. She asked for compensation for the petrol can 
issue and for the repairs she had to carry out to her car. Ageas says no evidence of repair 
work or costs were provided and no photos were sent to show the damage claimed. It didnt 
offer any payment. 
Ms W referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He 
says the checklist completed when the car was collected by the garage confirmed the petrol 
tank was empty. This had been signed by Ms W. He says there was no evidence of the 
damage Ms W claimed and he didnt think the business need to do anything further.
Ms W didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint. Let me explain.
Ms W refers to injuries she sustained as a result of the accident. She didnt include this in 
her claim, and it didnt form part of her complaint to Ageas. So, I havent considered this 
here. My focus is on the issues relating to the petrol can and the damage Ms W claims was 
caused to her car. 
Ive looked at the checklist completed by the garage that collected Ms Ws car. There is a 
section that asks about how much fuel there is. The box is ticked to show the fuel tank is 
empty. 
I have read the engineers inspection report completed in November 2019. This includes a 
photo of the dashboard with the ignition turned on  the fuel gauge light is on, and the 
needle points to empty. 
I understand Ms W is upset that she had to buy a can of petrol. Im sure this was 
inconvenient for her. But the evidence shows the fuel tank was empty when the car was 
collected. Ms W signed the form to confirm she agreed with what it said. If this wasnt 
accurate, I think its reasonable to expect her not to have signed it. I dont think there is a 
requirement for Ageas to fill Ms Ws car with petrol. So, I dont think Ageas has been shown 
to have been unfair here.
From the records provided Ms Ws car was returned to her in December 2019. She 
contacted Ageas around eight months later to complain about the condition of the car when 
it was returned. More specifically that interior panels had been removed, wires were left 
exposed and repairs were needed to the steering wiring. 
I can see that Ageas asked Ms W to provide photos of the damage as well as invoices to 
demonstrate what repairs were carried out. Ms W didnt provide this information. Although 
this was some time after the car was delivered back - Ageas asked the repairing garage 
about this issue. It says it wasnt aware of the points Ms W highlighted. Ageas says it was 
told by the garage that it only needed to carry out a geometric test on the wheels  there 
was no need to strip or dismantle the vehicle. 
Ive considered the evidence in detail. But there is nothing to show the damage Ms W 
complains about  or that this was caused by the garage. I dont dispute Ms Ws recollection. 
But I have no evidence to support the claim she is making. I acknowledge Ms W says Covid 
prevented her from raising this issue sooner. But she hasnt explained why this prevented 
her from telling Ageas about the problems at the time the car was returned. I think its 
reasonable to expect the damage shouldve been reported much sooner. This will have 
better allowed Ms W the opportunity to support her claim. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Ageas treated Ms W unfairly in how it handled her 
claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman