DRN-3612265
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund around £8,000 she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S authorised the disputed payments she made to Jubiter.com 
using her HSBC debit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers 4EX7 from her crypto wallet). The payments were requested by her using 
her legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mrs S has lost around £8,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over three separate and smaller increments which, in my judgment, would 
not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mrs Ss 
spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating 
that she might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of 
such an amount, for example, that it would represent a significant deviation from the way 
Mrs Ss account was normally run, as I can see from her statements that she had 
previously made a payment in excess of £4,000 on 22 June 2020.
I appreciate than an FCA warning has since been issued about 4EX7. But this had not 
been published until after Mrs S had already made the payments. In any event, Mrs S 
did not pay the scammer directly; she made the payment to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. So, even if the FCA warning had been published at the time she made the 
payments, there still wouldnt have been any reason for HSBC to automatically block 
them, as the payee would not have flagged as suspicious. 
So, having considered the payments Mrs S made to Jubiter.com, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mrs S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mrs S used her 
debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company she paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). I note that Mrs S 
also did not respond to HSBCs request for further evidence to be able to pursue the 
chargeback claim in any event. Therefore, I do not think HSBC acted unreasonably by 
failing to pursue the claim any further. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman