DRN-3315981
The complaint
Mrs Hs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
In summary, the CMC says:
Mrs H was advised to invest too much money, namely 80% of her available savings. 
She was advised to take too much risk. 
What happened
In 2003 (and 2006), Mrs H was advised to invest in an ISA and OEIC. In 2009, she 
surrendered the investments with a loss.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Lloyds treated Mrs H fairly. 
Just because she was an inexperienced investor doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
The recommendation wasnt high risk  as suggested by the CMC  but in line with 
her low to medium attitude to risk (ATR).
The recommendation also met her objective for capital growth, over the longer term, 
above what was available from a savings account.  
Following discussions, 50% of the funds were invested in the low risk Corporate 
Bond Fund  suitable for low risk fixed interest investors, primarily investing in AAA, 
AA and A rate bonds. The remaining 50% of the funds were invested in a medium 
risk Strategic Income Fund  with the objective to provide income and growth 
primarily invested in the UK and European Corporate bonds, and other fixed interest 
securities of which 35% would be invested in Government securities. 
A composition of the funds represented a low to medium risk rating which was 
suitable for her and didnt expose her capital to too much risk. 
The Corporate bonds were much less risky but still offered the long-term growth 
opportunities that she had requested.  
Despite what the CMC says, Mrs H wasnt taking a gamble with her money. 
There are detailed notes of the discussions, and the adviser was entitled to rely upon 
the information provided by Mrs H. 
Although the CMC says that Mrs H was advised to invest 80% of her available 
assets, this isnt supported by the documentation. It was recorded that she had a 
savings account with a total of £94,000 and the investment represented roughly 50% 
of the amount. 
The business cant be held responsible for the performance of the investment. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary it explained that Mrs H had paid out a total of £25,000  from her total available 
cash  to her children. It also provided a recent sworn statement from her to that effect. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Despite checking the point of sale documents, he was unable to find any evidence of 
Mrs Hs plans to pay her children a total of £25,000. In other words, if that was her plan, she 
hadnt made it clear to the investigator.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation  to invest in the ISA and OEIC  was unsuitable.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, on a balance of probabilities whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
Im mindful that in 2003 Mrs H was in her mid-60s, retired, and in receipt of a pension. She 
was also married, in good health and owned her property, without an outstanding mortgage. 
It seems she also had no financial dependents.  
I note Mrs H had received inheritance money following the death of her mother. I note it was 
recorded that she had savings of around £89,000 with Lloyds. She also had £2,000 savings 
elsewhere and a mini cash ISA into which shed invested £3,000.  
In the circumstances, I think Mrs H was in a reasonably good position to invest and take a 
risk with a portion of her money from the inheritance, which she wasnt reliant upon at the 
time. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs Hs ATR was discussed and that she was willing to take a 
low to medium risk to meet her objective for capital growth over the medium to longer term. 
I note in relation to the low risk element of her investment it was recorded that she didnt require capital protection. This would suggest that Mrs H was aware that her investment 
could go up as well as down and was willing to take a measured risk.   
I note in the suitability letter the following was recorded:
Mrs H (name anonymised) you could commit £50,000 into the ISA / OEIC which offers the 
opportunity for capital growth over the medium to long term. This would mean that as 
mentioned above to give capital better potential returns over the medium term to boost 
capital. You do not require access to this money for the medium term and are keen to give it 
potential to grow for your future needs.
You are able to commit £49,999.82 as a lump sum to satisfy this need. This is because you
wish to pay initial charge for ISA on top of initial investment making this £7,253.83. The
remaining £42,746 will be to OEIC. Your chosen funds. Corporate Bond Fund and Strategic 
Income Fund. Your agreed stated attitude to risk is low and medium. You understand and
accept the level of risk with these investments and that your capital is not guaranteed.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs H may not have been an experienced investor, based on the 
above and what the investigator says, Im satisfied that she was still aware of the general 
risks involved and was happy and willing to invest her capital in a risk-based investment, 
split equally between the two funds mentioned above. So, I dont think the recommendation 
to invest in a low to medium risk ISA and OEIC was unsuitable. Im broadly satisfied that it 
met her objective for potential growth.  
Despite whats said, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H was risk averse or didnt want to 
take any risk with her money in order meet her objective. On balance, I think its unlikely that 
Mrs H wouldve wanted to invest this money in deposit-based account. And just because this 
mightve been her first time taking a low to medium risk investment, doesnt mean the 
recommendation was unsuitable, or that it carried more risk than she was willing to take.  I 
note the following was recorded in the documentation: 
you are concerned that the money is in a bank account suffering from low interest rates you 
wish the capital to have a better potential to grow to build a lump sum for use in future years. 
At this time you have no specified purpose in mind but you are trying to build up as much 
capital as possible for your future. You know that in the medium-term years the capital will 
come in useful. You are happy you have sufficient left for short term need and emergencies.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that Mrs H was advised to invest 80% of her money. 
Based on the point of sale documentation, Im persuaded that she was advised to invest 
roughly 50% of her money  split between two funds  leaving her with access to enough 
money for planned expenditure and emergencies.     
I appreciate what the CMC says about the payments to her children, and Im grateful for the 
(recent) sworn statement. However, based on documentation available at the time, it seems 
that the adviser was aware that shed given some money to her children, but she still had a 
lot left. In other words, Mrs H was leaving £40,000 on instant access for treats, holidays and 
short-term needs. 
There was no suggestion that a further £25,000 was to be paid out of the £40,000, which I 
understand is at odds with what the CMC says  namely that Mrs H had planned and told 
the advisor that she was to gift £5K to each of her 5 children thus reducing her available 
liquid savings.I note the business confirmed the following in the suitability letter:
The reason for your action is your mother died early this year and you have received
inheritance, you have given some to children but still have a lot left, you are leaving over
£40,000 on instant access for treats, holidays, short term needs, but feel able to put £50,000
aside for a minimum 5 years, you want to put this money aside for future uses and want the
potential for better growth potential than current rates on bank/building societies accounts.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the adviser was made aware of the specific amounts 
Mrs H paid, or planned to pay, her children. So, whether (or not) these payments were 
made, the adviser couldnt have considered these payments if he wasnt made aware of 
them. In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that the adviser was entitled to offer 
advice based on the information provided which on balance doesnt seemed to include a 
payment of £25,000 to her children.  
In the circumstances and on balance, I think its more likely than not Mrs H knew what she 
wanted and made an informed decision. If for whatever reason the information recorded on 
the fact find was incorrect or inaccurate, she ought reasonably to have raised it with the 
adviser at the time, and not signed the relevant forms, effectively confirming the information 
was correct. 
Despite what the CMC says about performance, the drop in the value was down to several 
factors, including adverse market conditions which are beyond the control of the business. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, the business couldnt have been able to predict or control 
the impact of a global financial crash, for which it isnt responsible.
In other words, despite what the CMC says, poor performance isnt generally of itself 
evidence of unsuitable advice. 
I appreciate Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give Mrs H what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman