DRN-3835008
The complaint
Mr C complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Inspirational Financial Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and 
so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to IFM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to IFM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr C was 53 years old, married and with no dependent children. He was described 
as being in good health and at the time of the advice he had accrued over 35 years 
of pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr and Mrs C lived in a home with no mortgage outstanding. 
Mr and Mrs C earned around £36,000 and £5,000 per year respectively. After 
expenses they had some disposable income left over each month.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Cs BSPS was approximately 
£452,799. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
IFM set out its advice in a suitability report on 14 September 2017. In this it advised Mr C to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. IFM said 
this would allow Mr C to achieve his objectives. Mr C accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2022 Mr C complained to IFM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, IFM said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr C had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, IFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Cs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Our investigator referred in his view to the critical yield rate. The critical yield is essentially 
the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. It is 
one of several factors that can help determine whether transferring form a DB pension was 
financially viable. Ive considered some other factors too.
In this case, IFM used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield comparisons, rather 
than the new BSPS2. However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Cs case, I think its important to point out 
that IFM could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, 
rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. 
I say this because several weeks before this advice, which was dated 14 September 2017, 
BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had 
also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and more 
details of the BSPS2 were emerging at the time IFM produced its suitability report  mention 
is made of this in the report itself. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr C the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair to say 
that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between 
the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS).
Ive also noticed that the suitability report, dated as it was on 14 September 2017 seems to 
have been issued  together with a recommendation to transfer to a personal pension plan  
before the transfer analysis, which is dated 26 September 2017. So, I cant therefore say 
whether Mr C even had sight of the transfer analysis when he was reading through the 
suitability report and deciding what to do. 
The transfer analysis report itself, commissioned by IFM, said that to replace the benefits 
provided by your former scheme, you would need an investment return, to retirement, of 
8.5% per annum. This related to retiring at the NRA of 65. No other critical yield figures 
were set out in this analysis in relation to retiring early or taking / not taking a tax-free lump 
sum. 
In my view, it should have been obvious to IFM that this critical yield figure was high and 
probably not achievable. And Ive noted that in the suitability report, IFM does seem to 
acknowledge this by saying such growth is probably unrealistic (although I note IFM used 
the term around 8%, rather than the accurate figure of 8.5% as published in the transfer 
analysis).
In its suitability report, IFM did make brief mention of the PPF, a safety net for pension 
schemes when the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. IFM said the critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was lower. But it said this was still 
around 4%. This yield related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and IFM itself 
says Mr C wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember 
here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would have 
further reduced the likely growth. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was only 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement (age 65), which is 
well below the critical yield figure of 8.5% Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the 
lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, IFM assessed Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR) as low 
cautious. 
Taking all these things into account, I think a future growth assumption towards the lower 
end of the regulators projections and also close to the discount rate was most relevant here. 
This would have been around 3 to 4%, which was substantially below the critical yield figure 
for the BSPS. So I think this showed that achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, upon 
transferring out just wasnt likely in Mr Cs case. It was even lower than the PPF critical yield.  
And in my view, all these things, taken together, were clearly indicating that Mr C would 
likely receive lower pension benefits overall as a consequence of transferring away from the 
DB scheme. 
Transferring away, from a financial viability perspective, was not suitable.
Ive also considered some projections IFM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr C well into retirement. I think these were based on 
growth projections which were unrealistic given his ATR. Its also fair to say these were 
certainly not comparing like-with-like. What IFM was showing Mr C were comparisons with 
plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to IFM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, IFM said Mr C also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
IFM recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Cs wider 
objectives. I have summarised the following themes as supporting the recommendation to 
transfer away:
IFM said Mr C required flexibility to control the frequency and amount of income he 
could take from his pension fund in retirement.
It said he wanted to choose to retire when he wanted without the restrictions of the 
PPF or new BSPS2.
It said he was prepared to accept certain investment risks in return for greater 
flexibility.
Reference was also made to Mr C maximising the tax-free lump sum he could take in a 
personal pension plan and more flexible death benefits. So, it seems the supporting reasons 
that IFM recommended the transfer out to a personal pension was for the flexibility and 
control it offered to Mr C. 
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Flexibility and control
Overall, I cant see that Mr C required flexibility in retirement in the way suggested, but in 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by IFM. IFM says that Mr C had wanted to retire at 55. As this was little more than a year away, Ive 
considered this with great care. However, despite IFM saying now that this was Mr Cs clear 
intention at the time, Ive seen only informal references to retiring at this specific age. What 
the fact-find in this case actually shows is that Mr C was keen to retire as soon as 
possible, whilst reference to a specific retirement age came only from the pre-populated part 
of the form. On this, Mr C was invited to select an aspirational retirement age from blocks of 
five years  55, 60, 65 and so on. 
So, I dont think the information at the time was clear enough that Mr C was adamant he 
wanted to retire at 55 at all costs. I completely accept that early retirement may have been 
something he was working towards, but I think if hed been suitably advised, Mr C could 
have eventually achieved what he wanted to do whilst still remaining a member of a DB 
scheme such as BSPS2, and enjoying all the guarantees and benefits this would bring. This 
may well have involved working a little longer, beyond 55 for example, but theres no 
evidence this was realistically explored. 
On the other hand, Mr Cs NRA under the BSPS as it stood, was 65. And I dont think that it 
was reasonable for IFMs advice to have been predominantly based on specifically retiring at 
55 instead, with no other options being considered. Indeed, what Ive seen from the 
documentation is that early retirement was just a possibility Mr C was thinking about and that 
no concrete plans were in place.
There are some significant features from the documentation supporting this view. Ive noted, 
for instance, that the critical yield analysis carried out in his case did not offer examples 
against retiring at the age of 55 - instead the comparison was against the NRA of 65. Ive 
seen a great many similar cases to this, and my experience is that where early retirement is 
being seriously contemplated, the transfer analysis shows wider and more numerous 
comparisons with the planned early retirement age as well as the NRA under the relevant 
scheme. In short, I think that if retiring early, at the age of 55, really was part of an actual 
plan for Mr C, then Id have expected IFM to be including the relevant information and data 
in its advice to him, so he could consider whether this was feasible. 
In addition to this, I noted that IFM itself also implied at the time that any aspirations Mr C 
may have had to retire at 55 were probably premature, given the size of his pension pot and 
what he had said his likely income requirements in retirement would be. It has since said the 
only way he could achieve early retirement was therefore to transfer out and take a risk that 
his funds would grow and that hed eventually get to the age of 67 when his state pension 
would kick in.
But IFMs job here wasnt to simply transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. Its job 
was to really understand his circumstances and make a recommendation that was in his 
best interests. And if this included telling Mr C he simply couldnt afford to meet his early 
retirement goals quite so early, then it could have advised of this. Theres no persuasive 
evidence these alternatives were really discussed and I think IFM just took a hoped for 
retirement age and made a recommendation focusing only on this, despite the many other 
disadvantages, such as the loss of guarantees and benefits.  
So, I think its more likely these were early and aspirational thoughts about retirement in his 
case, rather than reasons to base a recommendation to irreversibly transfer from his DB 
pension on. We also know anyway, that early retirement under the PPF was a possibility, 
and in all likelihood also possible with the emerging BSPS2 pension scheme. So I dont think 
portraying his existing scheme as being so inflexible as to warrant an irreversible transfer-
out to a personal pension plan, was fair. If Mr C, only 53 and in good health, had been 
prepared to work on a little longer, it may well have been his retirement income requirements 
could be met by the BSPS2 and any other resources he and Mrs C had.For example, an estimated annual pension at the age of 65, under the existing scheme, 
was quoted at the time as being £25,265. This on its own met his estimated retirement 
income need of around £2,000 per month. So what Mr C needed to know was how close he 
could get to this figure by retiring earlier than 65, which would have incurred an actuarial 
reduction. We dont know much about Mrs Cs pension or if she had one. But her earnings at 
the time were up to £5,000 per year. So I think this already showed Mr Cs income 
requirements for £2,000 per month werent that far away if he worked a little longer and 
incorporated his wifes income into his calculations.
However, I dont think IFM took enough account of Mr Cs second pension  his employers 
new defined contribution (DC) scheme which he had joined. Mr C and his employer were 
making significant contributions to this. So, even a few more years worth of being in this 
pension would have mattered - there could have been a reasonable amount in this DC 
pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2) if hed been prepared to work a 
little longer and past the comparatively young age of 55. He would also continue to benefit 
from employer contributions whilst employed, whereas upon retirement these would cease.
The points Im making here is that Ive seen nothing that shows Mr C had unmoveable 
retirement plans. He was still only 53 years old and in good health. Ive also seen no need 
for flexibility in his income going forward. In fact, in Mr Cs case, I think the opposite was 
more likely true. Under the auspices of a DB scheme, I think he could probably hope to enjoy 
a satisfactory retirement from a financial perspective. Whenever he chose to draw his 
pension benefits, on one hand Mr C would have had a long-standing DB pension in the 
BSPS2 with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brings. And on the other 
hand, if he was willing to work just a few more years, hed have built up a reasonable DC 
pension pot, which, if he later found he did require any greater flexibility, this could have 
helped provide this. In my view, early retirement in his late-50s was realistic in his case.
Ive also seen nothing showing Mr C had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal 
control over his pension. The evidence here is that Mr Cs previous exposure to investing 
was limited and he didnt want risk. So, I think hed have been likely to need help with 
exercising any control over these funds. As a consequence of this, hed incur fees and 
charges in the years ahead. Alternatively, remaining in a DB scheme  such as the BSPS2 - 
run by trustees, was the much more suitable option for Mr C. 
IFM says the fact-find about all these things was completed on 12 September 2017. Given 
the amount of money Mr C was paying for the advice, I think his expectation would have 
been that it would be based on a comprehensive assessment of his circumstances. In my 
view the fact-find doesnt reflect such an assessment; it captured only brief details about Mr 
C and omitted others  such as not including a detailed analysis of his assets or liabilities. I 
would have also expected to see more details about Mrs Cs employment and pension (if 
any) as these issues could have affected any retirement plans they jointly held. 
I dont think IFM adequately explained these things to Mr C as its advice simply discounted 
him transferring to the new scheme (BSPS2) to obtain flexibility which was both poorly 
defined and which he didnt need. I think Mr Cs circumstances here were much more 
aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do 
so. 
More tax-free cash
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. 
Theres no evidence recorded that Mr C needed to access higher amounts of cash. He had 
no mortgage, for example, nor apparently any debts to pay as far as I know. And IFM didnt 
record any other reasons for Mr C needing large amounts of cash in what at the time was a 
low interest rate environment. Of course, the BSPS2 would have facilitated a tax-free lump 
sum too and a corresponding annual pension. 
Death benefits 
IFM says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr C died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr C. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think IFM explored to what 
extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr C was only 53 and was married. So, I think the likely death benefits attached to the DB 
scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been very useful to Mrs C if Mr C predeceased her. I dont think IFM made the 
value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 53 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably 
affordable product if Mr C really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs C or someone else such 
as a close relative over a shorter period. But more so, it doesnt appear that IFM took into 
account the fact that Mr C could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his 
other, DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr C already had options ensuring part of his pension 
wouldnt die with him.
However, a more obvious drawback with a personal plan death benefits is that the amount 
left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr C, a man currently said to be in 
good health, had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension 
plan. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and IFM 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and IFM said 
he could have more control over his pension fund. So, its quite possible that Mr C was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was IFMs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that IFM should 
have reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr C through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to IFMs recommendation to Mr C to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr C was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think IFM ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I 
think IFM should have advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr C would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that IFM disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr C, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr C to transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against IFMs advice. I say this because Mr C was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if IFM had explained Mr C was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint.IFM should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for IFMs unsuitable advice. 
I consider Mr C would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the 
personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice. To be clear, Mr C has not retired and 
has no current plans to stop working completely. Compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. IFM 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
the complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. I consider its fair that IFM 
calculates Mr Cs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come into effect. 
IFM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and IFM has 
received notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFM to pay Mr C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFM deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. IFM should give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I have also considered the impact on Mr C of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr C by IFM for what he 
referred to as the distress and inconvenience caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken 
into consideration Mr Cs age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension 
would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the 
thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr C. I therefore agree that IFM 
should also pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Inspirational 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Inspirational Financial Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Inspirational Financial Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman