DRN-1510114
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Covea Insurance Plc settled a claim against her motor 
insurance policy as a fault claim for an accident that she feels wasnt her fault. Miss B is also 
unhappy with the way Covea handled her claim overall  and has explained she feels the 
customer service provided to her was poor.
 What happened
Miss B was involved in a car accident after her car was hit by a van outside her home in April 
2019.
Miss B contacted Covea to report the accident on her motor insurance policy. Miss B 
explained that the accident occurred as she was parallel parked outside her home and 
attempting to pull out on to the road. She said she had edged forward a little, but was still 
behind another parked car, so not hanging out into the road. At this point Miss B explained 
she had her handbrake on and the car was stationary and still half on the pavement. A van, 
which had not been visible in her mirrors previously travelled down the road at speed and 
collided with the side of her car. Miss B thinks that the van would have hit her car regardless 
of whether she was in it since it was no further out than other parked cars on that side of the 
road. 
The following day Miss B received a telephone call from the insurance company to confirm 
the details of the accident. During that call the call handler explained to Miss B that since 
there was no independent witness evidence it was likely that the accident would be recorded 
as a fault claim, unless the other party admitted liability for the accident. It was also 
explained to Miss B that she would have to pay £400 excess to the garage once the repairs 
had been carried out on her car. The call handler confirmed that she would instruct a local 
garage to carry out the repairs to Miss Bs vehicle. Miss B explained that the van driver was 
driving without MOT and this might have been a factor in causing the accident. The call 
handler explained that this would have no bearing on Miss Bs claim since they did not 
insure the van driver. 
Miss B contacted Covea to advise that the garage had not contacted her regarding the 
repairs to her vehicle. It appears that the instructions sent to the garage had not been 
received by them and so the call handler sent out a further set of instructions. 
Miss B also contacted Covea again in May 2019 to chase up a form that was supposed to 
have been sent to her. During the course of that conversation Miss B relayed the details of 
the accident again. The call handler advised Miss B that he would amend the claim to 
dispute given the circumstances but never did. 
Miss B complained to the insurance company for the service that she had received. She 
noted that when she had spoken to Covea previously it had the details of the accident 
wrong. She said on a number of occasions shed needed to clarify that she was parked 
outside her home, and not pulling out on to a side road when the accident happened. And 
Miss B explained the customer service she had received was poor. For example, she noted 
there being delays in it appointing the garage to repair her car. 
Covea looked into the concerns raised by Miss B and partially upheld the complaint. Covea 
found that their service had fallen short in not making their process clear to Miss B, not 
managing her expectations in terms of the liability issue, and call handlers referring to 
incorrect accident details. Covea offered Miss B £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in service. Covea did not uphold Miss Bs 
complaint in respect of liability and excess and advised that as insurers they are able to deal 
with claims as they see fit, and that they were satisfied that they followed their own 
processes correctly. 
Miss B was not happy with the outcome of the investigation and referred her complaint to us. 
The investigator looked into things for Miss B and felt that Covea had handled Miss Bs claim 
fairly, had fully considered the circumstances of the claim and was right to record the 
incident in the way that the they did. The investigator did not uphold the complaint. Miss B 
disagreed with the investigator and so this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained my reasoning 
below.
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Covea acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in their handling of the 
claim. It is not my role to assess liability for an accident; that is the role of the Courts. My role 
is to look at whether Covea acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
The insurance policy provides cover for damage to Miss Bs car in the event of an accident. 
Miss Bs insurance policy explains that the insurer is entitled under this policy to take over 
and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name which is what has 
happened here.
The circumstances of the incident are such that there is no CCTV or independent witness 
evidence available. I understand Miss Bs frustration since she feels that her car would have 
been hit regardless of whether she had been in it or not. However Covea had no 
independent evidence to corroborate her version of events. In the absence of such evidence 
Covea have settled Miss Bs loss and recorded the accident as a fault against Miss Bs 
policy. This is not because Covea believe that Miss B was to blame for the accident, it is 
because it was unable to recover their outlay on the claim from the third party. As detailed 
above Miss Bs policy does explain that Covea are entitled to take over and conduct 
settlement of any claim.  I feel that this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss B paid £400 excess in order to get her car back from the garage. Covea explained that 
the first £400 of any claim regardless of fault is payable by the policyholder. This is within the 
terms and conditions of the policy which explains that the total excess shown in the 
schedule of insurancemust pay these amounts for every incident that you claim for: and is 
standard practice in motor claims. Miss B would have had to pay this amount regardless of 
how her claim was handled or who was found at fault for the accident. 
On occasion, it is possible for an insurer to recover the cost of an excess from a third party 
of their insurer. And so, the excess paid by the policyholder can be reimbursed to them. But, 
in this instance, Covea decided not to pursue a third party for the loss. And as above, I do think Covea made this decision fairly. So, given the excess on Miss Bs policy was payable 
by her, and not recovered elsewhere, I dont require Covea to reimburse this amount to her.
Miss B advised Covea that the van driver didnt have a valid MOT at the time of the accident. 
The call handler advised Miss B that this would not be relevant to her claim. This is because 
Covea did not insure the van driver and therefore I wouldnt expect them to intervene. 
Miss B had to contact Covea on numerous occasions in order to ensure that the accident 
details were recorded correctly, and to chase up the repairs to her own vehicle. The service 
provided to Miss B by Covea has fallen short of what I would have expected. Miss Bs 
expectations were not managed and the process by which claims are settled should have 
been explained more clearly. Covea offered to pay £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in their service. Im satisfied that this is a fair and 
reasonable offer. I say this because I think it fairly recognises the upset caused to Miss B in 
relation to the above
My final decision
Covea Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Covea Insurance Plc should pay Miss B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman