DRN-1697401
The complaint
Mr I complains Black Horse Limited supplied him with a car of unsatisfactory quality. He 
wants to be allowed to reject the car and compensation for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused.
What happened
On 13 September 2017, Mr I entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The car 
was around four years old and had travelled 35,700 miles at the time of purchase.
Mr I says he noticed a warning light coming on and a drop-in acceleration in November 
2017, a few months after purchase. He felt the dealership from whom he originally 
purchased the car was too far and so he took it to a local dealership. 
Mr I says he had repeated problems with the warning light coming on and issues with the 
performance of the car. He says the local dealership inspected the car in November 2017 
and again in March 2018 for the same problem.
Mr I called a third-party vehicle recovery company on two occasions in March and May 2019. 
It recommended a part be replaced and Mr I says commented to him that the car had similar 
problems in the past, prior to Mr I am purchasing the car.
Mr I had the part replaced under warranty at no cost to himself. But he feels very strongly 
that the car was sold to him with an existing problem that has caused him a great deal of 
inconvenience and impacted his enjoyment of driving the car. He now wants to reject the 
car.
Black Horse says Mr I contacted the business on 3 May 2019, around two years and eight 
months after the sale. He said he was experiencing issues with the EGR Valve and he 
wanted to reject the car. Black Horse contacted the supplying dealership who confirmed no 
contact had been received from Mr I nor had the vehicle been returned. Following 
information from Mr I, it then contacted his local dealership. It said Mr I had first brought the 
car for inspection in December 2018. The mileage at this time was 50,600. 
In its final response dated 27 May 2019, Black Horse didnt uphold his complaint. It said it 
didnt believe this fault could have been present at inception as the car had travelled 14,900 
miles before Mr I reported a problem and had been in his ownership for around 15 months.
Dissatisfied Mr I brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr I. He said in order to hold the finance provider 
responsible for any faults with a vehicle we have to establish whether the faults were present 
at point of sale. If the issue is raised within six months of purchase, its down to the finance 
provider to investigate and prove otherwise. However, if the fault is raised after six months of 
purchase, its down to the customer to prove the fault was present at point of sale. He said 
he couldnt see any evidence that the fault had been raised with Black Horse within six 
months and all the evidence provided suggested it was more than 12 months later when he 
started to experience problems. He also noted the fault had been repaired under warranty at 
no cost to Mr I and so he didnt find any grounds to allow Mr I to reject the car and so he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr I disagreed. He says he had provided a significant amount of evidence the show he has 
experienced problems with the car throughout his ownership. He says he has been trying to 
get the dealership to identify and sort the problems, which he conceded he eventually did 
under warranty. But he feels when he was made aware this car may have had these issues 
prior to his purchase, as the third-party vehicle recovery company told him, the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was sold to him. He still feels he should be allowed to reject the 
car and be compensated for the trouble and upset this matter has caused. He asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached earlier in our process by our investigator. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr I. These are the reasons why I have 
come to this conclusion. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I have listened to the telephone call between Mr I and the investigator. It is a lengthy 
conversation, in which Mr I make it clear that he is very disappointed that he has 
experienced issues with this car which have eventually been corrected. It seems he is of the 
view that the Black Horse may have supplied finance for a car with a known issue and that 
this has directly led to him experiencing issues of a similar nature. I can understand this 
information may have led him to lose confidence in the car and to feel all the problems he 
experienced, could have been avoided.
I think its important to sat at the outset, that my role here isnt to fine or punish a business. If 
an error has occurred, I look to see look at how a business has sought to address the issue 
and whether that approach is fair and reasonable.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault arises within the first 6 months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one attempt at 
repair. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
I appreciate Mr I has been made aware there may have been previous issues with same part 
he has ultimately had replaced. There is some evidence to show this part was inspected, but 
not replaced and so that doesnt automatically mean the part was faulty.I havent seen any information to show Mr I experienced problems with car within the first six 
months. The local dealership say it was first brought to them in December 2018 and both the 
breakdown reports were in March and May 2019. I also have to take into account the car has 
travelled at least 10,000 miles each year and when he didnt have use of the car, a 
replacement vehicle was provided.
Theres no independent report available for me to assess, and the issue with the car has 
now been fixed, so its unlikely that any report would be able to ascertain when the fault 
started as the part has been replaced.
I appreciate Mr I has taken the car into a local dealership to resolve the issues, but I cant 
see this was within six months of purchase and the matter was first reported to Black Horse 
in May 2019. So, from what Ive seen Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to say 
there was a fault present at the point of sale and as the fault has been repaired, I dont find 
allowing a rejection of the car to be a fair outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman