DRN-3227096
The complaint
Miss A has complained about a hire purchase agreement she has with Advantage Finance 
Ltd. She says she shouldnt have been given the agreement. 
What happened
In December 2018 Miss A acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance. The car cost around £7,000 and there was a deposit of £500. The 
agreement was due to be paid back with 47 payments of £224.40 and a final payment of 
£399.40. 
Miss A says she acquired the car for her ex-partner whod been declined finance. She says 
her ex-partner was very abusive and controlling. She also says a couple of months prior 
shed taken out car finance for herself with another company and payments for that car were 
over £500. 
Advantage Finance received information in August 2019 from one of the credit reference 
agencies that the car it had financed had been recorded as a total loss. 
Midway through 2020 Miss A complained to Advantage Finance and said the agreement 
was unaffordable. And had Advantage Finance carried out sufficient checks she thinks it 
would not have agreed to the lending. She said the last 18 months of her life had been awful 
and her health had suffered. So she wanted to come to some sort of an agreement with 
Advantage Finance. 
Advantage Finance looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said as far as it was 
aware the car was to be used by Miss A. It said it carried out a credit score process, an 
affordability assessment and various document checks. It said the affordability assessment 
indicated Miss A had adequate monthly disposable income.
Advantage Finance wanted to highlight that Miss As application described her as living with 
parents and that she was working full time earning around £2,200 per month. It said her 
commitments were being managed well aside from some historical arrears on a settled 
communications account. But otherwise it thought its decision to lend was fair. 
Advantage Finance also pointed towards the terms and conditions that said Miss A should 
not have let the goods out of her possession. Ultimately, Advantage Finance felt that the 
problems were caused as a result of the car being written off and the breakdown of the 
personal arrangement between Miss A and her ex-partner. But it said it was happy to work 
with Miss A to come to a sustainable arrangement to pay off the agreement. 
Miss A didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. She reiterated that 
Advantage Finance should not have offered her finance. She said her monthly income was 
£2,000 and not £2,200. And that she was paying over half of her wages on the two cars. She 
also highlighted the issues she had with her ex-partner.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Advantage Finance acted reasonably when offering finance to Miss A. He acknowledged 
Miss A sounded like she had been in a difficult relationship. But he thought shed entered 
into the finance agreement willingly and there was an arrangement with her ex-partner for 
payment of the agreement. 
Miss A didnt agree with the assessment. She said Advantage Finance should have done 
more to help her. And that continuing to pay the agreement had put a great strain on her 
finances.  
As things couldnt be resolved the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
I want to say Im very sorry to hear that the matter has negatively impacted Miss As health. I 
appreciate the time and effort it has taken her to bring her complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure Miss A and Advantage Finance that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont 
comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
I think itd also be helpful to set out why I am able to make a decision on this complaint. 
Miss A acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Im first going to turn to Miss As complaint about the affordability of the finance agreement 
as this has been the main thrust of her complaint. 
Affordability
I think there are two key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Advantage Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss A would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss A could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Advantage Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Advantage Finances actions disadvantaged Miss A in any way, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that Advantage Finance 
is required to follow. When deciding to offer finance to Miss A, Advantage Finance was 
required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could 
sustainably repay the borrowing. 
The checks that Advantage Finance were required to carry out had to be borrower focused. 
So instead of seeing how statistically likely Miss A was to repay the borrowing, it needed to 
assess whether she could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking into account her personal 
circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient 
information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to):
The type, amount and duration of the credit. 
The frequency and size of the repayments.
The total amount payable and total charge for credit. 
The interest rate and any other costs which may be payable. 
Any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising from a failure to 
make payment. 
So I think the checks needed to take into account Miss As personal circumstances. 
In this case, Miss A had to pay back nearly £11,500 over four years with monthly payments 
of £224.40. So I think this is a significant commitment. 
From the information Ive been provided I can see Advantage Finance were supplied basic 
details about Miss A including her employers details and her income  which was recorded 
as £2,200. The application also sets out that Miss A lived at home with her parents and had 
no housing costs. 
Advantage Finance has also supplied a copy of a credit search it undertook. This gave 
summaries of her credit accounts with a total balance of around £35,000  the majority of 
which was for the car Miss A had acquired a couple of months beforehand, which had a 
balance of nearly £32,000. The credit search also shows Miss A had a loan with a balance of 
around £1,500 and payments of £164 per month. It also showed she had credit/store cards 
with a total balance of around £1,500. The report shows these accounts were up to date. But 
the report also showed some evidence of previous arrears on other accounts  a relatively 
recent communications account and well as an older communications account and current 
account. 
Advantage Finance has also told us a bit more about its affordability assessment. Its said 
the FCA had reviewed its approach to the assessment and judged it to be sufficient. And that 
it undertook its own verification check on Miss As income. It said it also calculated what it 
thought Miss As disposable income was likely to be  around £1,300.
Ive thought about what Advantage Finance has said about its checks. But just because the 
FCA has reviewed its approach and said it was broadly in line with [their] requirements 
doesnt, to my mind, mean the checks Advantage Finance says it carried out would be 
proportionate for every customer that applies. 
In Miss As case Advantage Finance wouldve seen that shortly before applying for the 
agreement she took out another high value finance agreement with payments required of 
over £500 per month. And it also would have seen she had other monthly commitments 
towards credit agreements. Adding the monthly payment to Advantage Finances agreement would have taken Miss As committed expenditure to around 50% of her salary. But that 
doesnt take in to account other expenditure. There are associated costs with having a car 
such as insurance, tax and petrol. And its not clear whether Miss A had other regular costs 
such as food, subscriptions and bills. Im not sure why the estimated expenditure on 
Advantage Finances own affordability check doesnt better match the credit search it carried 
out. So even with the information it had, I think it ought to have known that its calculation of 
Miss A having around £1,300 disposable income may not have been accurate. 
Moreover, while the arrears Advantage Finance would have seen were mainly historical, 
there was some indication that Miss A had previously ran in to issues managing her 
finances. When Ive factored all this into account, I think Advantage Finance should have 
done more to find out more about Miss As actual expenditure. This wouldve helped it 
ensure she could sustainably repay the borrowing. So I dont think the checks were 
proportionate. 
That being said, I still need to look at whether I think Miss A could afford the borrowing. 
Advantage Finance has highlighted that Miss A, on the whole, has a good payment history. 
But that in itself doesnt prove the finance was affordable. Indeed, Miss A has said she had 
to borrow from friends and family to meet her commitments. 
Miss A has provided us with her bank statements from around the time she applied for the 
agreement. These provide some detail about her income and expenditure. I appreciate 
different checks show different things and that Advantage Finance may have chosen to look 
at something else, but I think the statements are fair for me to consider when weighing up 
Miss As financial circumstances at the time she entered into the agreement. 
I can see in the months leading up to her entering into the agreement with 
Advantage Finance Miss A had a salary coming in at around £2,000 per month. And, while 
of course not representing total expenditure, her direct debits for November and December 
2018 totalled around £1,200. So if you were to add the Advantage Finance monthly payment 
to that, on the face of it, Miss A would have been left with between £500 and £600 for other 
day to day expenditure. 
But, importantly, there was also significant sums being transferred in and out of Miss As 
account, many of which seem to have come from other accounts in her name, as well as 
some other incoming payments. We asked Miss A more about this. And she said she closed 
down her other accounts and was unable to provide the evidence we asked for. She also 
said that a payment of £500 she received in December 2018 was for one off canvassing 
work she carried out. And that other sums in and out of her account were to and from her ex-
partner or from his company. She said she couldnt comment on those transfers because he 
was using her account while waiting for a business account to go live. 
Without knowing more about Miss As financial situation at the time, and from looking at her 
statements, I dont find I have the grounds to say the agreement from Advantage Finance 
was unaffordable. Even if I were to simply strip out the transfers to and from her ex-partner, 
it still wouldnt be clear she couldnt afford the payment towards the agreement with 
Advantage Finance. Miss A has also provided a copy of her credit file. While its a recent 
copy it does show her historical payment history. But theres nothing on there to suggest she 
wasnt maintaining her payments towards her agreements around the time she took out the 
agreement with Advantage Finance, and indeed since shes had the agreement. 
So I think even had Advantage Finance carried out proportionate checks and asked Miss A 
more about her circumstances I dont think it wouldve found the agreement was 
unaffordable. And therefore I dont think Advantage Finance needs to take any action as a 
result of this. Coercion
Miss A has said her main complaint is concerning the affordability checks that 
Advantage Finance undertook. But she has also said her ex-partner was very controlling, 
abusive and manipulative. And that she was not feeling well around the time she entered 
into the agreement. It sounds like Miss A has been through a lot, and as Ive said, Im very 
sorry to hear that. So Ive thought about whether Advantage Finance needs to do anything 
else to put things right or whether it should have offered help sooner. Id reasonably expect a 
business to offer further assistance where it found out there might have been a case of 
economic abuse taking place. 
I dont think there was anything that should have put Advantage Finance on notice that 
Miss A might have been in an abusive relationship when she entered into the finance 
agreement. And from looking at the contact notes it doesnt look like Advantage Finance 
were put on notice that this might be the case when it spoke to Miss A. And this is true even 
after the car was in an accident when it looks like Miss A and her ex-partner had split up and 
Miss A has said she went to lengths so he could not locate or contact her. I think this is 
important to note. 
There could of course have been many reasons why Miss A wasnt comfortable sharing 
information about her relationship with Advantage Finance. But by the time Miss A felt 
comfortable to do so the car had already been in an accident. Things had moved on. So it 
wasnt an option for Advantage Finance to simply take the car back. 
Therefore, while I know itll disappoint Miss A, I dont think Advantage Finance has acted 
unfairly. And I dont find I have grounds to say it should have stepped in sooner to offer 
assistance or that it needs to do anything else now to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman