DRN-3899126
The complaint
Mr L complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered to settle his claim on his 
military insurance policy. 
Mr L has been represented by his father throughout this complaint, however for ease of 
reading, all references to Mr L include the actions of his father. 
What happened
Mr L had an insurance policy with AXA to cover his kit and possessions while he is in the 
military. In December 2021 he made a claim after he lost a signet ring. AXA accepted the 
claim and passed it to its jewellery specialist to settle, Ill refer to the specialist as L.
L initially informed Mr L that he would need to contribute £1,200 to have the ring replaced. 
However this was later retracted and L confirmed that it would be able to replace the ring at 
no cost to Mr L. It said it could do this at a quote of £3,000. Alternatively it said it could offer 
a cash settlement of £1,800 as this is how much it would charge AXA after applying 
applicable discounts. 
Mr L wasnt happy with the proposed settlement as he said it would cost significantly more to 
make a replacement ring. And he didnt think it was fair that the cash settlement was 
reduced. He was also unhappy that L had been appointed in the first place as he had had a 
bad experience with it previously. And it had initially told him he would need to pay £1,200 
which proved to be incorrect. Mr L complained to AXA.
AXA didnt uphold his complaints as it said where a replacement ring can be provided, it is 
only obliged to provide the amount this would cost it to replace as a cash settlement. And it 
said it would also offer a gift card to the full value of the replacement as an alternative. It also 
said that L is its chosen specialist and was confident in its ability to make a replacement ring. 
Finally it accepted L had made a mistake when asking for a payment towards the 
replacement but that this was corrected once the full details of the lost ring were evidenced. 
It offered £100 compensation to make up for any inconvenience that had been caused when 
settling the claim. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this as he said the replacement L could make wouldnt be of the 
same standard as the original ring, as he had obtained quotes for much more than this from 
experts who had seen the ring before it was lost. And he wouldnt be able to buy a suitable 
ring using the voucher as it could only be used in high street shops which didnt stock the 
same standard of ring. So he said AXAs offer meant he wouldnt be able to replace the ring. 
He Asked this service to investigate his complaints.
Our investigator considered all the issues across his complaints but didnt recommend they 
be upheld. He said the policy allows AXA to cash settle at the amount it would cost it to 
replace the ring if it can do so. And as L has offered a replacement he thinks AXA has acted 
fairly in the settlement it has offered. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy states as follows:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If We cannot replace or 
repair the property, We may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
vouchers and/or store cards).
Where We can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but We agree to pay 
a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount We would 
have paid the preferred supplier.
If no equivalent replacement is available then We will pay the full replacement cost of the 
item with no discount applied.
Here AXA has said that its chosen supplier, L, can provide a replacement ring. So under the 
policy, as it is able to replace the ring, its only obliged to pay the amount it would pay its 
preferred supplier. And its shown that this would be the £1,800 its offered as a cash 
settlement. 
However Mr L says that it doesnt agree that L could make a replacement ring for the full 
quote of £3,000. And hes provided quotes from other specialists that are for much more 
than this. 
L has based its quote on the size, material and specification of the ring, including an 
engraving, and it has calculated the cost based on this. Ive seen nothing to show that these 
costs are incorrect or that it wouldnt be able to make a comparable ring for the amount it 
has quoted. I understand why Mr L has concerns that the ring wont be of the same 
standard, as other specialists have quoted considerably more. However different shops will 
charge different amounts based on various different factors, for example the prestige of a 
brand or the varying charges for labour. But as L has used the same specification as the ring 
that was lost, I see no reason why it wouldnt be able to produce a replacement at the cost it 
has quoted, even though it charges less than other places. 
So as AXA has shown it is able to provide a replacement ring, under the policy it only needs 
to offer the amount this would cost it as a cash settlement. And as this is what it has already 
offered, I think thats fair.
If when in receipt of the replacement ring, Mr L is unhappy with the standard, then he would 
be able to make a further complaint to AXA if necessary. But based on the evidence, I think 
its offer is a fair one.   
I note Mr L has raised concerns about AXAs chosen supplier, L, as he didnt want it to be 
used due to previous bad experiences. Its usual for insurers to have established 
relationships with suppliers, that they have contracts in place with and it isnt unreasonable 
for them to use these established contacts when settling a claim. So I cant say AXA acted 
unfairly by appointing L.
I also note Mr Ls comments about feeling pressured to pay £1,200 when L first made 
contact with him about replacing the ring. I understand this would have been distressing. 
However this was taken back shortly after, once the ring was validated so Im glad to see this was rectified promptly. AXA has offered Mr L £100 compensation to apologise for any 
inconvenience caused in the claim and I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I wont 
interfere in this offer or ask that it pays any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman