DRN-2963152
The complaint
Ms F complains that the loan she had from TFS Loans Limited was unaffordable to her.
  
What happened
Ms F took out a guarantor loan with TFS Loans on 11 May 2016. She borrowed £7,500 and 
was due to repay £304.63 monthly for 48 months.
Ms F says that TFS Loans didnt carry out enough affordability checks when she applied for 
the loan. She says the repayments were unaffordable and the loan worsened her financial 
situation which was already poor. Ms F adds that she now owes money to a family member 
who helped her pay off her debts.
TFS Loans says it asked Ms F about her income and discussed her credit report with her. It 
says it also verified her income using payslips. TFU says it agreed that part of the loan would 
be used to repay one of Ms Fs existing loans and that she would be left with around £589 of 
disposable income per month after the loan repayment. It says the information from its 
checks did not indicate further checks were required and it was satisfied the loan was 
affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied TFS 
Loanss checks went far enough and found that proportionate checks were likely to have 
found the loan was unaffordable. He recommended that TFS Loans should deduct any 
payments Ms F made from the principal and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. He 
said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Ms Fs 
credit file.
TFS Loans said that it would like to see the bank statements that our adjudicator used in his 
assessment. When our adjudicator explained why he considered that would add little value 
TFS Loans responded to say that Ms F had few outgoings as she was living with her parents 
and there was no evidence that she was struggling to meet her credit commitments.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS Loans lent to Miss L. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that TFS Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Fs case, Ive considered the following:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Fs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen and listened to evidence to show TFS Loans asked about Ms Fs financial 
circumstances, checked her credit file and verified her income. However, based on the information it received Im not satisfied that the checks carried out by TFS Loans were 
reasonable and proportionate. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 48 months and TFS Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Ms Fs credit file showed:
otwo defaults in the last year, of which one was now satisfied;
I acknowledge that Ms F explained the other was due to an unused 
current account where a small overdrawn balance had continued to 
accrue;
oShe was in arrears on a communications account and recently on a mail 
order account;
oA credit card that was over its credit limit;
oShed taken out a six-year loan less than a year earlier, for which she was 
paying £276 per month;
oA short-term loan taken out two months earlier with £180 monthly 
repayments;
oAn ongoing reliance on short-term lending;
I accept that Ms F was going to use the new loan to repay the larger of her existing loans, 
but, with her other existing credit, this still meant shed be committing almost 50% of her 
income to credit repayments. Even for someone who lived with her parents, who had 
declared few other outgoings, I consider this could be an indication that further lending was 
unsustainable. As her credit file also showed recent defaults, over-limit accounts and 
arrears, and multiple previous short-term loans, I think TFS Loans should have made sure it 
fully understood her financial situation before it approved the loan, especially as it didnt 
verify what Ms F said about her other outgoings.
So Ive had a look at Ms Fs recent credit file and bank statements from the time to see what 
proportionate checks were likely to have shown:
Ms F had two additional loans at the time of her TFS Loans application which she 
hadnt declared and werent on the credit search carried out at the time:
oShe was paying £235 per month on a high cost loan shed taken out in 
December 2015;
oAnd £269 per month on a £925 short-term loan from March 2016;
Her bank statements showed direct debits were regularly returned unpaid;
Ms F was spending around £120 each month on gambling transactions.
In total, excluding the loan that was to be settled, Ms F was committed to paying over £1,000 
of her £1,190 income on credit repayments when she took out the TFS Loan. With her other 
regular expenditure and significant spending on gambling, I think TFS Loans would have 
seen this was unsustainable if it had carried out proportionate checks.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Ms F and TFS Loans did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards interest, fees and 
charges on the loan;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms F which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Ms F the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman