DRN-3182528
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, complained that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a business 
bank account in 2007. He said hed discovered that as a sole trader, he only needed a 
personal account to run his business, not a business account. 
Mr B wants a refund of the business banking charges which hes been charged over the 
years. 
What happened
Mr B had an existing personal account with NatWest, and in 2007, he had a meeting with 
about running his new sole trader business through NatWest. As a result of the meeting, he 
opened a business bank account. After an initial free banking period, he was charged fees.
In early 2021, friends told Mr B that he didnt need to have a business bank account to run a 
sole trader business. They told him they ran their businesses through personal accounts. So 
Mr B asked NatWest, where he said there were conflicting opinions. But one member of staff 
told him he could run his business through a personal account, so Mr B opened a new, 
separate, personal account in January 2021. NatWest also let him transfer the direct debit to 
pay for his business van loan to his new personal account.
Mr B then complained to NatWest about the fact that hed incurred bank charges on the 
business account. He asked for a refund. He also complained about NatWests service, 
because hed struggled to get through, had spent a long time on the phone, and had been 
given conflicting information.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In its final response letter, it said the business 
account has not been mis-sold to you, as a sole trader you are required to open a business 
account with us and not to use a personal account for business purposes. I can see from 
your application that you signed and agreed to the terms and conditions of the account.
However, NatWest apologised for the poor service Mr B had received and paid him £200 
compensation for the poor service and the cost of his calls.
Initially, NatWest said that this service didnt have jurisdiction to look at Mr Bs complaint. 
There are rules about what this service can and cant look at, including rules about 
timescales. These say that we cant consider a complaint if its brought 
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The investigator said that although Mr B had brought his complaint to us more than six years 
after the account had been opened in 2007, hed only heard that he had possible grounds for 
complaint when his friends had told him he didnt need a business banking account as a sole 
trader. Hed then brought the complaint within three years. So this service could consider his 
complaint.
But the investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint that the business account had been mis-
sold. She said that the 2007 business bank application form clearly showed it was a 
business account being opened. And hed ticked boxes to confirm hed been given a copy of 
the account terms and conditions, and charging tariffs. She also said that there might have 
been other features which Mr Bs business required, which the business account provided at 
the time.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed signed the business bank terms and conditions because 
thats what NatWest gave him. He said that if hed known he didnt have to have a business 
account, he wouldnt have taken it because of the charges involved. And he pointed out that 
hed looked online, and as a sole trader its not necessary to have a business banking 
account. Mr B asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
First, I find that this service does have the jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs complaint. Ive set 
out the relevant part of the rules above. I accept that Mr B didnt know he had grounds for 
complaint until early 2021. He brought his complaint to us on 24 February 2021. So I find 
that he brought it in time. Id point out, however, that the events of this complaint happened a 
very long time ago. This means that evidence often isnt available. NatWest doesnt have 
any information about this because of how long ago this happened, and we wouldnt expect 
it to, as a business doesnt have to retain information like this indefinitely. And recollections 
of what happened in person-to-person meetings are likely to be less reliable after 15 years. 
Whether sole traders have to have a business bank account by law
Legally, its essential to set up a business bank account if the business is legally separate 
from the individual. So a limited company has to have a business bank account, but a sole 
trader, like Mr B, doesnt have to. But some sole traders choose to open a business bank 
account  for example if they want to build up a credit rating in order to apply for loans in the 
future.
This means that Mr B didnt have to open a business bank account in 2007, but might have 
chosen to.  Because it was a long time ago, evidence is very limited. Ive looked at the 
business bank account application form which Mr B completed on 11 January 2007. That 
sets out that he was working as a sole trader, that he was applying for a business banking 
account, and that he acknowledged receiving a number of documents, including business 
banking terms and conditions, and charging. 
But what the application form doesnt and cant tell us is about the discussions which went 
on around that form. There are no notes, and I wouldnt expect any as this took place in 
2007. As Ive explained above, personal recollections of verbal discussions from 15 years 
ago are likely to be unreliable. And its unlikely the bank employee Mr B met could be traced, 
because banks dont have to keep records indefinitely, and the employee might not still be 
working for the bank, let alone remember one customer from 15 years ago. So I cant know 
for certain whether or not Mr B was talked through options, and whether or not having a 
business account fitted his circumstances. So Ive looked at what evidence is available 
instead.What the account terms and conditions say
As their own policy, many banks dont allow anyone to run a business through a personal 
account. This means that if the terms and conditions of NatWests 2007 personal accounts 
didnt allow anyone to run a business, Mr B couldnt have opted for a personal account with 
NatWest in 2007.
So its important to look at the terms and conditions of personal accounts, and I asked 
NatWest for copies of these. Ive now seen three versions:
- The current, 2021, version, says that its a breach of the terms and conditions to use 
a personal account for business purposes  though Mr B was able to open a 
personal account for business in early 2021, which Ill deal with separately below;
- The 2007 version, which was effective when Mr B opened the account, didnt 
specifically say that you couldnt run a business through it. So, technically, in 2007 it 
would have been possible for Mr B to have run his business through a  NatWest 
personal account;
- But NatWests 2008 version, like subsequent versions, says its a breach of the terms 
and conditions to use a personal account for business purposes.
What this means is that even if Mr B had opened a personal account in 2007, within a few 
months when the 2008 terms and conditions came in, hed have been contacted by NatWest 
and would have had to swap to a business account at that point. Thats because whenever 
new terms and conditions come in, theyd have applied to all existing accounts. 
Mr B had an initial free banking period. After this length of time, I dont have any 
documentary evidence of how long that was. But at present, for instance, I see NatWests 
website offers 18 months free banking for new business customers. Assuming this might 
have been similar when Mr B took out his account, its likely that Mr B didnt pay any 
business banking fees before the new 2008 terms and conditions came in, under which hed 
have had to have a business not personal account anyway.
This means that even if Mr B only opened a business account in 2007 because he wasnt 
given a choice, he didnt have any financial loss from this. Thats because hes more likely 
than not to have been on free banking until the change in terms and conditions meant hed 
have had to have a business account anyway.
Mr Bs new personal account in 2021
I noted above that a NatWest employee allowed Mr B to open a personal account in January 
2021, which he intended to use for his business. As Ive set out above, from 2008 onwards, 
the personal account terms and conditions said that using a personal account for business 
wasnt allowed.  So Ive considered how the account came to be opened in January 2021. I 
think its more likely than not that Mr B told the employee what he intended to use the 
account for  because he also asked for his business van loan payments to be transferred 
from the business account to this new personal account. And if Im wrong and Mr B didnt tell 
the employee he intended to use the new account for his sole trader business, the employee 
should have realised from the fact he was transferring a direct debit payment from his 
business account. 
So the employee was wrong to open the account and transfer the van loan. But again, I cant 
see that there was a financial loss to Mr B as a result of this error.
Compensation for service issuesNatWest paid Mr B £200 for service issues in relation to being given conflicting information, 
having difficulties getting through to the right people, and his phone call costs. I find that was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman