DRN-3880029
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund payments he says he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr B disputes three card payments made on 15 March 2022, and which total just under 
£3,791. He says that he couldnt do anything to block the payments.
Starling Bank said that it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that Mr B had confirmed 
that no one else had access to his card and registered phone device, that he hadnt clicked 
on any suspicious links via text or email and that he was still in possession of the device. 
Starling Bank said it couldnt find any evidence of fraudulent activity.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she thought it 
most likely that Mr B had authorised the payments himself or allowed someone else to make 
them. Each payment was approved using 3DS which is an added layer of security. So, 
these were made when they had been confirmed through the mobile app on Mr Bs genuine 
device. The device ID was one that had been registered in April 2021 and this couldnt be 
cloned. The speed with which these were approved meant there was easy access to the 
app. Mr B hadnt provided anything to suggest how his details could have been 
compromised. And the device was still in his possession when he reported what happened 
shortly after the last payment.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he didnt make 
these transactions and so if he didnt take this forward he thought hed be admitting that he 
had. He was distressed about the conclusion that hed made these payments and felt that 
was worse than him losing the money. He said he had no request in the app asking him to 
approve the payments. He thought it significant that he couldnt open it after a first payment 
notification. And by the time he could access the app using a tablet device the other two 
payments had gone through. He mentioned that before the first payment of £995 at 16:48 
hed received a notification at 16:47 of a payment to the same merchant of a value of £0 
which he thought should be taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely 
based on the evidence that is available.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with payment card details. And if they werent 
authorised Mr B wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Is it reasonable for Starling Bank to hold Mr B responsible for the payments?
Ive seen the details about how these payments were processed and authenticated. These 
used Mr Bs card details. And they were authenticated through the app. What that means is 
that a notification was sent, and this would enable the payment to be approved through the 
app. Ive seen clear evidence that the device used to make this approval was the one that   
Mr B had registered. Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated. I dont read any real 
significance into the first payment notification of £0 Mr B describes which seems most likely 
to be a check of his card details.
Ive noted that Starling Bank had explained that the first actual payment was to a 
cryptocurrency business and the second two seemed to be to a European electronics 
company. And I know Mr B says he hadnt made these payments or had anything to do with 
them. I appreciate that when Mr B contacted Starling Bank he said he hadnt made any 
online payments before although he had used the card.
Mr B has explained how he kept all his passwords and security information secure and only 
known to himself. He was in possession of the device as these payments happened. And 
saw the notification of payments themselves. Hes clear that he hadnt clicked on any 
suspect text message or email. And Ive seen that Starling Bank has no information to 
indicate that his device was somehow taken over or could have been compromised.
I understand Mr Bs version of events and my intention isnt to cause him further distress. I 
do though need to come to my own assessment of his complaint as hes asked me to.
There is no substantive explanation or evidence to support what Mr B says. I need to think 
about what is most likely taking everything into account. And having done so I do think that it 
was reasonable for Starling Bank to conclude that these payments had been authorised and 
which could have involved Mr B allowing someone else to use his details. So, Im afraid I 
dont have a basis to require Starling Bank to do anything further for the reasons Ive given. 
If Mr B doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman