DRN-4385375
The complaint
Miss L complains Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd (Campbell) 
failed to invest £40,000 she transferred to her advisor.  
What happened
Miss L had a portfolio of investments, some of which were held on a platform Ill refer to as 
Platform A. Over the years shed taken advice on her various investments from her advisor 
at Campbell. 
On 20 November 2017, Miss L transferred the sum of £20,000 to her advisor at Campbell. 
She recalls doing so on the understanding her money would be used to top up her existing 
investments with Platform A. On 6 December 2017, Miss L sent the advisor another £20,000 
with the same expectation. 
In the years following this, Miss L has received updates directly from her advisor at Campbell 
which suggested the money had been invested as expected. On 27 February 2023, the 
advisor sent Miss L a text message which explained they were unable to continue as Miss 
Ls advisor due to an intervention by the FCA. 
In March 2023 a friend of Miss Ls who was also a Campbell customer, directed her attention 
to an article suggesting the advisor was being investigated for fraud. Miss L spoke with 
Platform A and came to understand the £40,000 shed paid to her advisor was missing. So 
she followed the matter up with the advisor at Campbell. 
The advisor explained the money was in fact in a holding account and that it would be paid 
to Miss L presently. But the payment never materialised. Miss L sent Campbell a complaint 
about whatd happened on 3 April 2023. In this complaint Miss L noted the investment 
updates the advisor gave accounted for her missing money. But that Platform A had 
confirmed the money in question was never received, suggesting the investment updates 
werent accurate. 
Campbell did not reply to Miss Ls complaint, so she referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator made efforts to contact Campbell and obtain its response to Miss Ls 
complaint. One of our investigators spoke to a solicitor working on behalf of the advisor. The 
solicitor confirmed Campbell and its advisor were aware of the complaints made against it. In 
the absence of any formal response from Campbell, our investigator upheld Miss Ls 
complaint. They felt she should be compensated for her financial losses, and for the distress 
and inconvenience shed suffered due to Campbells actions.  
To date, our service has received no explanation for, or defence of the issues Miss L has 
raised in her complaint against Campbell. Because of this, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id observe that given the subject matter and implications of Miss Ls 
complaint, its quite extraordinary that Campbell has failed to respond in any meaningful 
way. Im satisfied however that its appropriate for me to proceed with my decision on Miss 
Ls complaint. 
Our rules, outlined in DISP 3.5.9 R explain that I may reach a decision on the basis of what 
has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information 
requested. And that is what I intend to do in Miss Ls case.  
As a regulated firm, when dealing with its customers, Campbell is required at all times to 
uphold a series of high-level principles set by the FCA. Amongst other things, the principles 
outlined in PRIN 2.1.1 R require that: 
A firm must conduct its business with integrity A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence... A firm must observe proper standards of market 
conduct A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Where investments are concerned, these principles are further bolstered by the rule in 
COBS 2.1.1 R, which requires that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. 
Miss L has evidenced she paid two amounts of £20,000 to her advisor at Campbell. One on 
20 November 2017, and the other on 6 December 2017. Miss L recalls doing this following a 
discussion with her advisor. And that the payment was made on the understanding her 
money would be invested in Platform A, where she held a model portfolio product called 
Active Managed Portfolio 6. Ive seen copies of Miss Ls authentic statements from 
Platform A which clearly name Campbell as being her financial advisor. 
Following this, Miss Ls provided copies of investment updates she claims to have been sent 
by Campbell. These updates appear to show both her investment in Active Managed 
Portfolio 6, and a separate holding, also with Platform A, to the value of slightly less than the 
£40,000 shed paid Campbells advisor. Miss L says shed understood this was the money 
shed paid to Campbell across November and December of 2017. 
Our investigator has attempted to locate the holding shown on Campbells investment 
updates that Miss Ls identified as being her £40,000 deposit. The investigator 
communicated directly with Platform A and another of Miss Ls investment providers. Neither 
business has been able to account for the money shown on Campbells investment update. 
And whilst Campbells investment updates label the deposit as a Platform A investment, it 
cannot be seen on any statements provided by Platform A. This means theres no evidence 
to suggest the money was ever invested in the way Miss L recalls agreeing with the advisor 
at Campbell. 
When Miss L challenged her advisor on the whereabouts of her £40,000 deposit, they 
assured her the money would be with her shortly. But since that date, Miss L hasnt received 
any payments from either Campbell or her advisor.  Ive seen no evidence that would give me pause to doubt Miss Ls submissions on these 
points. 
In my opinion, if Campbell and its advisor had accepted Miss Ls money in the course of 
legitimate business, it would be relatively straightforward for it to refute her complaint. As a 
firm thats authorised to give advice and arrange investments for its customers, I would 
reasonably expect Campbell to provide evidence of: 
Arrangements and recommendations for any investments its sold. 
Paperwork substantiating the appropriateness or suitability of those investments.  
Diary notes or phone calls recording occasions those investments were discussed. 
The fact Campbell has failed to provide any such evidence is extremely concerning. As is 
the fact that according to the FCA register, Campbell doesnt appear to have ever been 
authorised to hold client money. Mindful of this, and in the absence of any counter-narrative 
defending itself, Im persuaded that Campbell has failed invest Miss Ls money as it should 
have. And by doing so, its failed to uphold the principles and requirements I referenced 
earlier in my decision. Im satisfied that Campbell has failed to treat Miss L fairly. 
It remains for me to fairly and reasonably decide what Campbell must do to address the 
impact its actions have had on Miss L. 
Putting things right
As Ive understood it, it was Miss Ls expectation that the £40,000 shed paid to Campbell 
was to be invested into Platform As Active Managed Portfolio 6. But this did not happen. 
Campbell has declined to say what it did with the money it accepted from Miss L. And by not 
investing the money as it should have, Campbell has caused Miss L to miss out on the 
growth Platform As Active Managed Portfolio 6 has made since 2017. This loss flows from 
Campbells failure to treat Miss L fairly, and so Im satisfied it should compensate her 
accordingly. 
Firstly, I direct that Campbell must pay Miss L the sum of £40,000. 
Next, I direct that Campbell must calculate the growth Miss Ls two deposits of £20,000 
would have made, had they both been promptly invested in Platform As Active Managed 
Portfolio 6. For the purposes of this calculation, I think its fair and reasonable to expect that 
Campbell ought to have invested these deposits the same day they were received, so on 20 
November 2017, and 6 December 2017 respectively. Campbell should calculate growth on 
these investments up until the date it settles this complaint. Completing this calculation will 
leave Campbell with a monetary figure Ill refer to as Figure X. Campbell must provide a 
breakdown of its calculations for Miss L in a clear and simple format. 
Once it has completed this calculation, I direct that Campbell must pay Figure X to Miss L. 
Finally, Ive considered what Campbell must fairly and reasonably do to compensate Miss L 
for the significant trouble and upset the events of her complaint have caused her. From the 
historic correspondence available to me, Miss L appears to have enjoyed a relatively 
informal relationship with Campbells advisor. I have no doubt that the realisation shed been 
deceived by the advisor as to the whereabouts of her money, combined with the anxiety of 
not knowing what had happened to her funds will have had a significant impact on her. 
Miss L has described the time she was forced to spend calling around between her 
investment providers and her advisor at Campbell. And the time shes spent compiling information for this service and the FCAs investigation into Campbells actions here. All the 
while, not knowing whether her money, a not insignificant sum, would ever be returned to 
her. And I have no doubt that this will have caused her significant distress and 
inconvenience. 
Because of this, I direct that Campbell must pay Miss L the sum of £750 in recognition of the 
impact its actions have had on her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons given above I uphold Miss Ls complaint. I direct that 
Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd must now: 
Pay £40,000 to Miss L
Calculate Figure X (as directed above) 
Give Miss L a breakdown of its calculations in a clear and simple format
Pay Figure X to Miss L 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman