DRN-2704111
The complaint
Mrs M complains Nationwide Building Society lent her a personal loan irresponsibly  and 
didnt help her when she told them about her financial difficulties.
Other parties have supported Mrs M in bringing this complaint, but Ill primarily be referring to 
her in this decision.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs M took out a loan for £14,825.16. This was made up of £10,000 of new 
borrowing, and £4,825.16 to repay an existing loan she had with Nationwide. 
In December 2020 Mrs M complained to Nationwide about the lending of the loan. She said 
itd been lent irresponsibly, and affordability checks hadnt been carried out. And when she 
got in touch to speak to Nationwide about her financial difficulties, theyd not actually helped 
her.
She pointed out the loan repayments are approximately 37% of her total monthly income 
which were made up of the state pension, pension credits and a small private pension. She 
added itd cause severe detriment to maintain the loan payments as then she wouldnt be 
able to afford her essential needs. Mrs M, with some support, listed out all of her essential 
costs, and provided Nationwide with an income and expenditure (I&E) form. She also 
explained she suffers from depression and anxiety which causes her to become really 
stressed and means she has difficulties weighing up options and making reasoned decisions 
 and, at the time, had outstanding debts with family members which she was upset about. 
Because of all these factors, she asked for the debt to be written off with no impact on her 
credit file.
Nationwide replied to the complaint a few weeks after Mrs M got in touch. They said when 
she took out the loan she declared an income of £1,000 per month. Combined with the credit 
checks they did, they found the loan was affordable so approved it. They noted Mrs Ms 
concern about using pension income but said as part of their criteria this was OK. And they 
said in September 2020 Mrs M agreed to repay £320 for six months to clear the arrears  
but if this was no longer affordable then she could speak to their collections team to discuss 
things. Because they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, Nationwide didnt refund any 
payments or agree to write off the loan.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and 
overall didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Because of that, she didnt ask 
them to write off the debt, or refund any of the interest.
Mrs Ms daughter, whos been helping her bring this complaint, didnt accept the outcome. 
She said Nationwide agreeing a loan for £297 a month, when Mrs M only earned £897 from 
her pension is disgusting. She said her Mother would most likely be forced into bankruptcy 
now and asked for someone else to look into matters. Because of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly express how sorry I am to hear of the difficulties Mrs M is experiencing. I 
cant imagine how challenging it is, and I can appreciate this loan isnt helping matters. But 
Id like to make it clear I can only require Nationwide to write off the debt, or refund interest, if 
I think theyve done something wrong.
As our investigator explained Nationwide were required to carry out proportionate and 
borrower focused checks to ensure it was appropriate for them to lend to Mrs M  and that 
she could repay the loan sustainably.
Original lending decision
In January 2020 Mrs M applied for an additional £10,000 loan, which was granted by 
Nationwide. So, Ive looked at what checks they did.
Nationwides notes show me that Mrs M took out the loan online. So, when applying for the 
loan Nationwide were basing some of their decisions on the information Mrs M gave them. 
This includes her saying her income was £1,000 per month, with the only monthly payment 
to deduct from that of £124.96 leaving around £875 spare. She also said the purpose of the 
loan was for a car.
In response to our questions about what information theyve used to calculate affordability 
Ive noted Nationwide have told us the following:
They assigned £361.12 for household expenses
£79.19 for council tax
Detected £745 worth of credit card debt outside of Nationwide, so assumed a 5% 
repayment rate to those (which came to £37.25 per month)
They assumed £200 rent as Mrs M had input £0
And factoring all of this in, they calculated Mrs M had a monthly disposable income of 
£322.44 (£1,000 - £361.12 - £79.19 - £37.25 - £200)  meaning the monthly repayment of 
£297.19 was affordable. 
Nationwide added they also validated Mrs Ms income using a credit reference agency which 
gave them a high confidence Mrs Ms income of £1,000 was accurate. And they didnt 
discover any County Court Judgements, defaults or missed payments in the last 12 months.
Mrs M has mentioned that she did have other credit aside from what Nationwide have said 
above  and I can see from the credit file sent in this was £30 a month. This would have 
made the loan unaffordable, but I can also see this didnt show up in Nationwides checks. 
Theyve said their systems update once a month, and this debt was taken out within a month 
of Mrs M taking out the loan so I think thats why it didnt show.
Mrs M is also concerned that this is her pension income thats being used. I understand why 
shed say that, but its ultimately for Nationwide to decide if theyre prepared to lend to 
someone using their pension income  and I can see from the internal information theyve 
given us they are.
I do accept things perhaps could have been tight if an unexpected expense came up based 
on Nationwides calculations. But I also think Nationwide have demonstrated they carried out a proportionate and borrower focused check as theyre required to do. Their check showed 
considerably less disposable income than Mrs M had declared  but it still showed the loan 
repayments were affordable. The figures Nationwide have assumed to calculate this also 
seem reasonable based on Mrs Ms circumstances.
Mrs M also had existing accounts with Nationwide, which often are a good indicator of 
whether someone is in financial difficulties. The only suggestion things had changed for 
Mrs M was her credit score had altered which meant Nationwide wanted to reduce her 
overdraft. They wrote to Mrs M about this, and she contacted them, agreed to pay off £50 
per month over 12 months which she did successfully. Ive not looked into whether 
Nationwide acted fairly in relation to the overdraft as it doesnt form part of this complaint  
but I do think this is a relevant factor for Nationwide to take into account when deciding to 
lend. Essentially, none of her existing accounts or conduct suggested she was in difficulties.
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about how her medical conditions affect her ability to 
make decisions. Ive seen no reason to doubt anything Mrs M has told us here. But the loan 
was taken out online. Nationwide seemingly didnt know about Mrs Ms conditions to be able 
to factor them in. So, I dont think I can fairly hold them responsible for not doing so  when 
Ive not seen any evidence to show she did tell them.
Overall then, I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide made any mistakes when granting the 
loan. 
When Mrs M contacted Nationwide for help
Mrs M has said Nationwide havent helped her when shes got in touch asking for support.
Ive looked at the notes Nationwide have provided to see what Nationwide have said theyve 
done to help her.
In April 2020 Mrs M asked for a payment holiday for three months which was granted. At the 
end of this, in June 2020, she called Nationwide back, discussed further options, and agreed 
to complete an I&E. An I&E shows how much someone is earning, and spending, and is 
designed to help people understand how much income they may have to pay towards 
certain things like outstanding debts. Mrs M completed the I&E, which Ive seen, and this 
showed a surplus of just over £200. Nationwide questioned Mrs M about why she now 
couldnt afford the loan. Mrs M said shed done this for her daughter as she owed her money 
 and nothing else had really changed. This is different from her stated reason for taking out 
the loan which she said was for a car.
At this time, Nationwide agreed a plan for three months at £200 which  based on the I&E 
Mrs M had completed  was affordable. Mrs K kept to this plan.
In September 2020 Mrs M got a letter saying the plan had come to an end, and she called 
Nationwide up again. She said her I&E was still accurate, and at this pointed wanted to pay 
£320 for six months to try and clear the arrears. Mrs M managed this for the first two months 
of the plan but didnt manage to do so after that  with payments being returned by her bank.
All of these arrangements are supported by Mrs Ms loan account statements which show 
what shes paid and when.
Nationwide have said theyre not prepared to consider any more repayment plans at this 
point without discussing things more fully with Mrs M. I can understand why, as it seems 
when discussing things with Mrs M in September 2020 the repayment plan she agreed to 
wasnt affordable.I do think Nationwide could have realised this given the information shed previously given in 
June showing she could afford £200, and that she said in September nothing had changed.
But, I also think its fair to say Nationwide have tried to help Mrs M. They gave her a 
payment holiday for three months quite early in to the loan. Theyve then agreed one 
repayment plan  which Mrs M kept to  and then another plan which she didnt. 
At this stage Nationwide have said Mrs Ms loan is too far in to arrears so theyll most likely 
default it. This decision doesnt deal with whether thats the right approach as Im only 
considering matters up to December 2020. But if the loan is defaulted then it may give Mrs M 
more options in terms of what to do going forward.
Finally, I note when Mrs M complained, using a professional representative to support her, 
the I&E completed at that time in December 2020 showed she had just over £5 available. 
This is significantly different from the information previously provided to Nationwide.
I think if Nationwide had been presented with an I&E that said the available income was £5, 
rather than the £200 previously presented to them, they may have thought about different 
options. That could have included defaulting the account earlier  which might stop interest 
and charges being applied. But Ive not seen any evidence to demonstrate they were told 
this.
As it seems at this stage the account is likely to be defaulted, Ill remind Nationwide theyre 
obliged to treat Mrs M positively and sympathetically if she asks for more support following 
this.
Summary
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably say Nationwide made any error when 
granting the initial loan. And I think theyve treated Mrs M fairly when shes discussed her 
financial difficulties with them. Mrs M has my sympathies for the issues shes experiencing, 
but because I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong, I wont be requiring them to 
write off the debt, or refund any of the interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman