DRN-2421595
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay his home insurance 
claim for his tools stolen when he was working on a property he had contracted to buy.
 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr O was carrying out some renovation work on a property he had contracted
to buy. The intention was that on completion he would move out of his home, which was the
insured property. Mr O kept all of his tools in a shipping container he had had delivered to
the site of the new property. Shortly after it was delivered, the container was broken into
overnight and all of the tools were stolen. He approached Lloyds to make a claim for the
stolen tools and also to use his legal expenses cover to pursue the owners of the shipping
container for negligently failing to put a secure lock on the container.
Lloyds advised that, as the new house wasnt covered under the policy, the only cover
available was for contents temporarily removed from the home for up to three months. But it
advised that the cover under that was excluded for loss or damage caused by theft or
attempted theft other than from a building, and a shipping container couldnt be classified as
a building. Lloyds further said that the tools were likely owned by a business which Mr O
worked for but he said the tools were personally owned, built up over the years. It pointed
out that Mr O consistently said he was losing earnings by not having his tools replaced, so
said the tools were likely used for business purposes, and so excluded from cover. 
On referral to this service our investigator said that the exclusion didnt apply where the theft
was from: An occupied private home or any building where you or your family are working
or temporarily living She said that Mr O was working at the property. She thought that in
accordance with the definition of buildings in the policy, the container was part of a building.
She said that Lloyds should reconsider the claim. Mr O had claimed for loss of earnings and
she said that Lloyds should consider that when reconsidering the claim.
Lloyds advised that we hadnt properly considered its point about business use. It said that
irrespective of the ownership of the tools Mr O had repeatedly asked to claim for loss of
earnings due to his being unable to use the tools.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in the circumstances of this case I thought the 
shipping container could be classified as a building. And that the exclusion still didnt apply in 
respect of the theft itself. But I said that I thought Mr O was holding his tools with the 
intention of earning an income from using them, which is what is meant by business or
professional purposes. So I thought that Lloyds was acting reasonably in applying that 
exclusion and not paying the claim.
Lloyds has confirmed it had no further comment to make.
Mr O didnt agree  Ill deal with his comments in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I should emphasise here that Im only considering Mr Os home insurance claim in this
decision. His legal expenses claim is made against a different insurer and will be considered
elsewhere.
As Lloyds relies on exclusions to reject the claim, it is for it to show that its most likely that
the exclusion applies.
I think the right cover under the policy that applies here is the cover for contents temporarily
removed from the home. The policy says:
We will pay for loss of or damage to contents when temporarily removed from your home to
anywhere in the British Isles for a period not exceeding three calendar months if caused by
an event covered under contents covers 111.
The relevant exclusion to that cover is:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft other than from:
An occupied private home or any building where you or your family are working or
temporarily living,
Any other building, caravan or motor home but only if force and violence are used to gain
entry or exit.
I dont think Mr O was working at the new house. The context of that exclusion in my view
relates to employment rather than carrying out private work to his own home. But I dont
think that term was as relevant as the second one. Clearly, if the theft was carried out as I
understand it by the lock being cut off by an angle grinder then force and violence were used
to gain entry. The thing to be decided is whether a shipping container is any other building,
caravan or motor home. I dont think I should apply here the definition in the policy.
Buildings, plural, is defined but building is not and isnt in bold so isnt intended by Lloyds
to apply to it. Instead, as Lloyds has pointed out I should apply its natural meaning. The
phrase itself is I think intended to be widely interpreted as it specifically says, any other
building (my underlining).
A dictionary definition of a building is a structure with walls and a roof, such as a house or
factory. A shipping container could come within this, indeed they do seem to be increasingly
used these days on private property So, as the cover applies to theft from any building I think
that this claim came under that cover. I dont think I need to go into whether the container
was an outbuilding, the shipping container was a building in itself.
Lloyds also argues that Mr Os tools are for business use. And therefore excluded from any
cover in the policy. I see that it investigated whether the tools belonged to the company Mr O
is a director of. Although there was some evidence that a couple of replacement saw blades
were charged to that company I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that the rest of
the tools didnt belong to Mr O. But, repeatedly throughout the claim Mr O said he wanted to
claim for loss of earnings. And this was based on the fact that he was without the tools. He
said in an email to the legal expenses insurer:
I have now spent almost 3 months since this theft occurredwith the loss of earnings that
my tools and plant would have allowed me to earn a living ..
That email has been put to Mr O so he can explain what he meant by it. Im not sure that Iunderstand his explanation. He says that when he realised what had happened, and as
Lloyds was unwilling to replace his tools, he couldnt earn any money by having the use of
them. But as he went on to say, he obtained work as a project manager, which is his usual
line of work. He wouldnt have, by his account been earning any money whilst working on
the property. And earning a living says to me that he generally uses or intended to use the
tools to earn an income from. There is also the fact that repeatedly while the claim was being
considered he said he wanted to make a claim for loss of earnings. And the inability to earn
an income was directly linked to the fact that he no longer had these tools.
The policy contains an exclusion, which applies to both the contents and personal
belongings cover, so that Lloyds wont pay for:
Any articles used or held for business or professional purposes other than as described in
the Office contents and equipment section.
The ownership of the tools isnt relevant in respect of this exclusion. Its how the tools are
held or used. In light of what Ive said above I think that Mr O was holding those tools with
the intention of earning an income from using them, which is what is meant by business or
professional purposes. I bear in mind that the email Ive quoted above came from fairly early
on in the course of the claim and so seems to me to reflect a realistic view of the situation.
With regard to Mr Os concern about the policy booklet, this would be supplied (or made
available online) when taking out the policy, not when the claim is made. Mr O will have to
check his policy schedule to see which parts of the policy applied. I can say that the
business use exclusion is common to most home insurance policies.
So regrettably whilst acknowledging that the circumstances of the theft could have given rise
to a valid claim, I think Lloyds acted reasonably in applying the above exclusion in rejecting
the claim.
Mr Os comments are mainly addressed to the way the container was delivered and secured. 
He makes the point that he thinks there was clear negligence on the part of the suppliers. 
Those points may be relevant to his legal expenses claim, but they arent relevant to this 
claim. For the record, Ive made no finding concerning negligence by any party or the way 
that Mr O hired the container. Ive already made (and reconfirm) a finding that the 
circumstances of the theft could have given rise to a successful claim, but for the exclusion 
regarding business tools.
Mr O questions my interpretation of the exclusion for loss or damage caused by theft or 
attempted theft. Ive set out my view clearly and stand by it, I think it was fair to do this, even 
if another exclusion applied.
I have considered Mr Os comments about whether the tools were for business use. So that I 
dont unfairly paraphrase him I set out those comments verbatim:
My suggestion of loss of earnings was based on the premise that I was unable to work on 
my house without personal tools and plant I had stolen, and I was unable to take on any 
plumbing or heating work in the interim as again I had no tools! A lose, lose, situation! 
Clearly my insurance company were not breaking their necks to assist!
The reference being made to earnings, that has been seized upon, was me simply pointing 
out that I could not work on the proposed new home without tools and plant, did not have 
finance designated for hiring tools and plant over a period of time - which now would be over 
18months! I would however be able to revert to either working with my son doing 
plumbing/heating or similar, but would require tools for the job!As explained previously, where a claim for loss of earnings is mentioned, I had no idea that 
I would not be compensated for the theft of my tools, or that it would take what seems like a 
lifetime to resolve. This was a change in direction for me, as I had predominantly earned my 
living as a freelance project/site manager, but when my tools were stolen I was referring to 
the fact that without my tools I would not be able to take up alternative employment. This in 
essence was based on the aggravated time frame to receive information from insurers when 
decisions or assistance would be available, as insurance seemed to be a name only on a 
document.
Also I referred to Mr Os email to the legal expenses insurer in my provisional findings 
above. I quote that in more detail: 
"I have now spent almost 3 months since this theft occurredwith the loss of earnings that 
my tools and plant would have allowed me to earn a living, which I have taken the 
responsibility of mitigating this by taking freelance site management work.
Regrettably Im not persuaded by Mr Os explanations. As I said in my provisional findings, I 
accept that the evidence doesnt show that the tools were owned by anyone but Mr O. But 
its the use of the tools that decides whether the exclusion applies. Mr Os comment to the 
legal expenses insurer refers to earning a living. And his claim for loss of earnings doesnt 
make sense to me if, as Mr O has explained, his normal line of work is as a project manager. 
He mentions mitigating his loss by taking a job as a project manager but he didnt have a 
loss by his account, except that he could have earned an income but for the loss of his tools. 
I dont think either that the evidence shows to me that it was only when faced with a loss of 
tools that Mr O said he could have used them to earn money. He says he was unable to take 
on any plumbing or heating work in the interim as he had no tools. And he says he would 
have been able to revert to either working with his son doing plumbing/heating or similar. 
Revert to me means go back to.
So I still believe that Mr O used or held his tools for business or professional purposes (i.e. 
to earn an income from). And I still think that Lloyds acted reasonably in applying the 
exclusion for the theft of the tools. My provisional findings as set out above are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman