DRN-1891240
The complaint
Mr H says that he has lost out financially due to delays caused by St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management plc (SJP), and its agent O&M, dealing with his transfer request from his 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a personal pension with St Jamess Place.
He says that his transfer value was around £26,000 less than it shouldve been due to 
SJPs errors and omissions. He says he paid substantial fees to get regulatory advice and 
was let down.
What happened 
Mr H was a deferred member of a defined benefit occupational scheme, which Ill refer to as 
Scheme C. The pension administrators for that scheme sent Mr H a guaranteed transfer 
value of £696,045.81, dated 31 January 2018 (CETV 1). The deadline for accepting CETV1 
was 26 April 2018.
In mid-February 2018, Mr H agreed for O&M, as agents of SJP, to provide him with advice 
on the transfer. Given the nature of the transfer, Mr H was obliged to obtain advice before 
the transfer could go ahead. SJP passed on Mr Hs details to O&M on 20 February 2018.
Scheme C says it received a letter of authority from O&M regarding Mr Hs pension on        
23 February 2018, but no further information was requested at that time.
O&M emailed Scheme C on 26 February 2018. The email concerned requested an 
explanation on revaluation and on a transfer credit. When it didnt receive a response, O&M 
chased this up on 6 March 2018. There was a typographical error in the email address used 
on 26 February 2018, which meant that Scheme C did not receive O&Ms first email. 
O&M got Scheme Cs response on 5 April 2018 around a month after it was sent. Later 
that same day, O&M asked Scheme C a follow up question about how the CETV was 
calculated at age 55. O&M got Scheme Cs response to this follow up enquiry on 16 May 
2018, nearly six weeks after it was sent.
The deadline for Mr H accepting CETV1 was missed. Mr H received a revised CETV of 
£670,203.05 (CETV2). He signed the paperwork for the transfer to go ahead. Scheme C 
transferred the guaranteed amount from CETV2 to his new personal pension scheme on 
7 December 2018. Mr H says hes lost out because he intended to transfer and accept 
CETV1 and wasnt able to do so because of SJPs and O&Ms errors and omissions.
Mr H complained to SJP. It did not uphold his complaint. As a gesture of goodwill, 
recognising the trouble and upset Mr H was caused by the time taken overall for his 
transfer to go ahead, it offered him £1,000 to settle his complaint. Mr H didnt accept SJPs 
offer and referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Hs complaint. Initially he thought it should be upheld. He later 
reviewed his decision and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. Our 
adjudicator concluded that, in summary:
it was not inappropriate for O&M to obtain extra information about the way Mr Hs 
CETV had been calculated. It was engaged to provide him with advice about the 
transfer;
although the email address used in O&Ms email to Scheme C on 26 February 
2018, contained a typographical error, and was not received, O&M chased this up 
in a timely way on 6 March 2018. This was within a week of not receiving the 
requested information. Whilst O&M was responsible for the weeks delay, this delay 
was not the reason why the CETV1 deadline was missed;
O&M received the information from Scheme C on 5 April 2018, and the next day 
went back to O&M querying the calculations;
O&M were told the calculations would be provided within 20 days and proactively 
chased the reviewed calculations a number of times around 12 April 2018,                   
16 April 2018, 25 April 2018, 26 April 2018, 8 May 2018 and 15 May 2018; 
O&M made reasonable efforts to proactively get the calculations. O&M could not be 
held responsible for the time taken by Scheme C to provide the information;
O&M appeared to have acted diligently. O&M was engaged to review the CETV and 
requested the new calculations from the Scheme C as part of that role; and
SJP made reasonable efforts to drive the transfer process and the losses Mr H 
suffered were not as a result of SJPs errors.
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicators revised view. He said, in summary:
The fact-find and investment strategy had already been concluded at that point, they 
were just following due process via O&M as per regulatory requirements;
O&M were negligent. It asked Scheme C to recalculate the CETV because it had 
incorrectly calculated the amount itself. The figure given in CETV1 was, in fact, 
correct;
the delay of a week did contribute towards his loss. Had Scheme C been told of his 
intentions to transfer and the deadline, the information couldve been provided 
sooner, and the deadline couldve been met;
Neither SJP nor O&M raised with Scheme C the deadline, a point highlighted by the 
Pensions Ombudsman when investigating a complaint made against Scheme C. Had 
Scheme C been told it was Mr Hs intention to transfer, Mr H believes the situation 
wouldve been resolved by Scheme C sooner;
Had Mr H been advised on the 5 April 2018 what was going on, he couldve made an 
informed decision about whether to accept CETV1, ring fencing this with the option of 
retrospectively requesting a recalculation at a later date, at no risk to him;
He had accepted CETV1 and was happy with it. The CETV was given to him in early 
January and he was told he had to sign up there and then in order to meet the 
deadline;
There appeared to be no recognition of the risk to him, SJP (O&M) must have known 
by 5 April 2018, given the timescales conveyed to them by Scheme C, that the 
deadline could not be met;
His pension pot is £26,000 down, through no fault of his own and having paid 
substantial fees for regulatory advice
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to reading through the paperwork I have listened to a telephone call between our 
investigator and Mr H. Mr H asked during that call that I give particular consideration to the 
Transfer Value Regulations, which I have.
I note the Pensions Ombudsman Service has investigated a complaint concerning       
Scheme Cs actions. My role is here is confined to how, if at all, SJP and its agent O&M, 
may have contributed to the loss Mr H says hes suffered.
Like our adjudicator, whilst I sympathise with the situation Mr H finds himself in, based on 
what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that Mr H has lost out financially as a direct result of 
SJP and its agents actions. Ill explain why.
asking Scheme C about the valuation
O&M was appointed to provide Mr H with advice on the transfer of his benefits from a 
defined benefit scheme with Scheme C, to a personal pension scheme with SJP. Ive looked 
at Mr Hs CETV calculation and because he transferred in benefits from former schemes and 
had AVC benefits, it seems to me this made the calculation of his CETV more complex.
I agree with our adjudicator therefore, I dont think it was inappropriate for O&M to query how 
the calculation was reached, given what it was instructed to do. 
And based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that O&M acted negligently, just 
because the CETV1 figure originally provided turned out to be right.
email of 5 April 2018
Ive looked at the email to Scheme C from O&M on 5 April 2018 requesting further 
clarification. Once it had received the information from Scheme C, it responded on the same 
day. So, I think it did so in a timely way. 
At that stage, it seems the only issue left to be clarified was the calculation of benefits at age 
55. O&M said it had arrived at a figure of £12,915.35 which was a lot higher than the figure 
that has been quoted at 55 of £12,683.32. It therefore asked Scheme C to provide a full 
breakdown of how the figure at 55 of £12,683,32 had been reached. So, it seems the 
variance between O&M and Scheme Cs calculations, was an additional £232.03 per year in 
annual pension, arising from a 4.62% transfer credit into Mr Hs Scheme C from a former 
pension scheme.
However, again I cant see that it was inappropriate for O&M to raise this query with   
Scheme C, given that it reasonably believed that Mr H may be entitled to a higher CETV, 
than quoted.
chasing a response
I can see from O&Ms notes made at the time, that it contacted Scheme C on 16 April 2018, 
by telephone, chasing a response to its 5 April 2018 email. Its noted that Scheme C told it 
that it could expect a response within 20 working days.
It seems to me, that at the latest by 16 April 2018, it ought to have been apparent to O&M 
that it was possible it would not get a response to the follow up query before the deadline. 
Scheme C had clearly told O&M that its service target was 20 working days for providing a 
response (by 4 May 2018). On 25 April 2018, Im told SJP asked Scheme C to issue a further CETV.
I can also see a further telephone call made by O&M on the deadline day. Scheme C 
informed O&M that it was still on course to provide a response to the queries within 20 
working days (4 May 2018). Scheme C didnt provide the response until 16 May 2018.
updating Mr H
I havent been told that prior to 26 April 2018 (CETV1 deadline day), O&M communicated the 
delay to Mr H, explained to him what it was seeking to clarify or the variance between the 
figures. I cant see that it involved him in, in any way, a discussion about the ongoing 
process.
I think fairly and reasonably O&M ought to have kept Mr H properly informed about the 
situation. If the deadline was missed, the amount included in CETV1 would no longer be 
guaranteed and any subsequent valuation may be higher or lower than CETV 1. So, I agree 
with Mr H, he was the one bearing a risk, if he always intended to transfer, by not accepting 
CETV1 within the deadline. In the circumstances, I think this was something that should 
have been discussed with him. Likely O&M wouldnt have known at the time that his 
subsequent CETV would be nearly £26,000 less, particularly as getting responses from 
Scheme C wasnt a quick process. But the risk that it could be less, wouldve been known. 
It was also possible that Scheme C could have mis-calculated Mr Hs CETV in the way O&M 
thought. And this couldve potentially led to Mr H being entitled to a higher CETV, which he 
wouldnt have got if he accepted CETV1.
Also, if a new CETV had to be issued, as it was here, then this wouldve resulted in a further 
delay whilst a new valuation was issued, accepted and the transfer made. Seemingly, 
Scheme C was taking at least 20 working days to deal with correspondence, so this also had 
to be factored in. Any delay may or may not have had an impact on the potential for 
investment returns in Mr Hs new personal pension scheme, given it was his intention to 
transfer.
So, I think SJP and O&M should have done more to keep Mr H abreast of developments.
typographical error in email address
Having looked at the time line here, I cant see that the short delay caused by the 
typographical error in the email address, directly contributed to the deadline for CETV1 being 
missed. 
did the business do anything wrong?
So, I think O&M did something wrong. It did not keep Mr H properly informed, which I think it 
should have done, given the circumstances and that he was the one bearing the risk. So, I 
must now look at what I think the position wouldve been had O&M and SJP kept Mr H better 
informed.
consequential losses
Mr H said he wouldve followed up things direct with Scheme C, had he known of the 
situation. Mr H seemed to think he wouldve got a quicker response out of Scheme C, 
because it was his former employer. By not discussing the position with him, I think he was 
denied the opportunity to approach Scheme C. Understandably, I can see this might leave 
Mr H questioning what might have been.I have also taken into account that at no time did O&M or SJP appear to make it clear in the 
telephone discussions or emails with Scheme C that Mr H wanted to transfer and the CETV 
deadline was 26 April 2018. I cant know if it had of done so, whether it wouldve given       
Mr Hs information request any greater priority.
Ive noted that Scheme C said that had it been made aware of these things, it may have 
been able to prioritise the information requests. But balanced against that, I note that 
Scheme C had set a 20 day target for responding to enquiries. And O&M did chase up the 
enquiry, on a number of occasions, and even so, Scheme C provided the information 12 
days after the delivery target. It provided the information late, even having been chased 
twice by O&M after the delivery target was missed. 
So, I dont think I can fairly say, that more likely than not, had Mr H had the opportunity to 
chase Scheme C up, or had Scheme C been directly told of Mr Hs intention to transfer, it 
wouldve provided the information in sufficient time for O&M and SJP to advise Mr H before 
the deadline. Scheme C was clearly was under pressure turning enquiries around, to have 
missed its own internal deadline to the extent it did. In reaching this conclusion, I have taken 
into account that it only took O&M one day to issue its report, but the timing of this was 
dependent on the information being received from Scheme C.
I asked SJP what options wouldve been available to Mr H, if it had made Mr H aware of the 
issues and he said he wanted to accept CETV1 regardless, whether it was a correct 
valuation or not. SJP said it wouldnt have been prepared to short-circuit the full transfer 
analysis conducted by O&M. That was because O&M had a responsibility to thoroughly 
review matters before submitting its report and SJP had to act on the reports findings when 
assessing the viability of the recommendations made. It said it didnt consider it wouldve 
been a reasonable course of action to take to proceed with some form of disclaimer from the 
client regarding the amount of the CETV.
Ive taken into account the regulatory regime that exists requiring members transferring out 
of occupational pension schemes to take advice first. And that this exists to safeguard the 
interests of members, who are often giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. The 
requirement is there to ensure that they are able to make informed decisions.  Its not 
optional. So, I can see why SJP wouldnt have considered it appropriate to allow this process 
to be cut short, where information was still outstanding, which may potentially have led to   
Mr H being better off, simply to meet the CETV deadline.
So, whilst I think SJP and O&M couldve communicated better with Mr H before the deadline 
passed, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the financial loss Mr H says hes suffered. SJP 
and O&M was reliant on receiving information from Scheme C first, to be in a position to 
properly advise Mr H. As I see it, O&M actively pressed Scheme C for this information. 
So, given the regulatory regime that exists, I cant see that Mr H couldve unilaterally decided 
to accept CETV1 before the deadline. From what SJPs telling me, the full process wouldve 
needed to be completed before a report was issued providing Mr H with the regulated advice 
he had to have.
trouble and upset
So, whilst I sympathise with the situation Mr H found himself in, and I agree with him that 
SJP and O&M didnt keep him properly informed so that he could try to move things along quicker, I cant see that he has more likely than not lost out because of SJP and its agents 
actions.  It was a statutory requirement for Mr H to obtain this advice before he could 
transfer, and if O&M and SJP did not feel it had all relevant information in order to be able to 
advise him because it was awaiting information reasonably requested from Scheme C, then I 
cant see that it was responsible for the deadline being missed.
SJP has offered Mr H £1,000 compensation a gesture of goodwill, recognising the trouble 
and upset Mr H was caused by the time taken overall for his transfer to go ahead. I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable amount to recognise its shortcomings here. So, I 
make no further award
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman