DRN-3379160
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In August 2017 Mr T met with D C Financial and it 
completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that Mr T was 47 years old; he was 
working full-time; he was married; he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of 
£40,000 that had seven years remaining; he had a car loan which would be repaid in a year; 
and he had cash savings of around £4,000. D C Financial also carried out an assessment of 
Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious to moderate.
On 11 September 2017 D C Financial issued its formal written advice and it recommended 
Mr T transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the 
proceeds in investment funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Ts attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were that Mr T wanted to 
control his pension fund;  he wanted to avoid going into the PPF; penalties would be 
imposed by the DB scheme for early retirement; he was concerned about the potential for 
benefits to be cut further by the BSPS; he was interested in potentially accessing tax-free 
cash (TFC), when he reached 55, but not immediately take an income; and the inflexible 
death benefits of the existing scheme concerned him and he wanted to leave his pension 
fund to his children.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr Ts pension transfer completed in December 2017 and around £345,000 was received 
into the new personal pension.
Mr T complained to D C Financial in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice.
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary it said Mr T wanted to transfer 
because he had a lack of trust in the BSPS and he was concerned about entering the PPF, 
which would mean he would lose future flexibility and his benefits would be reduced. It said 
the transfer met Mr Ts objectives of wanting to be able to retire early, take control of his 
pension and allow his family to benefit from his pension upon his death. It said neither the 
BSPS2 nor the PPF would have met Mr Ts income need at his desired retirement age. 
Overall it said the recommendation was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr T asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said D C Financial should pay Mr T compensation. In summary 
they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said that, given the growth rate 
required to match Mr Ts scheme benefits, he was likely to be worse off in retirement as a 
result. They also didnt think there were other compelling reasons for the transfer  for 
example they said there was nothing to show Mr T needed flexibility in accessing his tax-free 
cash and delaying taking his income. They said better or different death benefits shouldnt 
have been prioritised over providing Mr T with an income in retirement and that Mr Ts 
concerns about the scheme could have been allayed by D C Financial waiting for the BSPS2 
details and using this in formulating its advice. They said they thought Mr T wouldve 
remained in the occupational scheme and eventually transferred to the BSPS2, as this would 
have given him the greatest degree of flexibility in the future.
D C Financial disagreed. In doing so it provided a substantive response, which I have read in 
full. But in summary it said the BSPS2 did not exist at the time so it couldnt have 
recommended Mr T transfer to it. It said it doesnt think the critical yield and whether this was 
achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at suitability. If the critical 
yield was considered it said the only relevant comparison would be to the PPF. But it didnt 
think critical yields were relevant as Mr T didnt intend to purchase an annuity. In any event it 
said even if the growth achieved through transferring meant the benefits of the new pension 
were the same as, or even slightly less than the DB scheme, the advice would still have 
been suitable as it provided Mr T with flexibility. And the past performance and what had 
happened since the advice, which it says shouldnt be disregarded, showed that this level of 
growth was achievable. Overall it said it still felt that the recommendation to transfer was 
suitable as it allowed Mr T to achieve his goals and avoid moving to the PPF. It also argued 
that it was not responsible for any losses caused by bad investment advice since it had 
stopped providing ongoing servicing of Mr Ts pension. And it said if the ombudsman 
concludes that the advice wasnt suitable, it wants a provisional decision issued with an 
opportunity to consider and respond to before a final decision is reached.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
Id firstly like to briefly address something D C Financial raised in its response to the 
investigators assessment. It said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
previously undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and 
they didnt highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the advice was tailored for each matter, it 
applied a consistent approach to determining suitability and recording its advice. So it has 
questioned how our service can come to a different conclusion  that transfer advice was 
unsuitable.
My role and that of our service is different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of a complaint - not a business processes and practices as a whole 
- and decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
taking into account the considerations I listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
I can also see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on this 
case before I make a final decision. But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered 
everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons 
given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C 
Financial in its two substantive submissions following the investigators assessment are new. 
And Im satisfied that the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. 
Im also not making my decision based on any new information provided by Mr T. So, it 
follows that I can issue a final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
D C Financial carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits. But at the time of D C Financials written advice of 11 September 2017, the Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) (under pensions law, a RAA is a 
restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its 
liabilities in respect of a DB pension scheme) was approved by the Pensions Regulator. This 
meant scheme members would have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or 
remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr T. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the 
announcement, D C Financial shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and used 
the BSPS2 figures instead so Mr T had all the relevant information to make an informed
decision.
I can see that D C Financial has argued that BSPS2 was very far from being a certainty at 
the time of the advice, so the only comparison it could provide was the benefits available to 
Mr T through the PPF. But I think D C Financial is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not 
happening. As I said above, the RAA had been formally approved and in my view all of the 
available information indicated that the new scheme would go ahead. So for these reasons 
I still think D C Financial shouldve waited and taken the benefits available to Mr T through 
the BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice so that he was able to make a properly 
informed decision. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr T was 47 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork records that he would like to 
retire at 55  albeit it also says that he was prepared to work for longer. The TVAS dated 23 
August 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 7.52% if he took a full 
pension through the existing scheme and at age 55 it was 13.09%. The TVAS didnt provide 
the critical yields for a reduced pension and tax-free cash. The critical yields required to 
match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 were 4.97% if Mr T took a full 
pension and 4.56% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The TVAS didnt set out 
the critical yields at age 55.
But as Ive said above, Mr T remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But, I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
 
This compares with the discount rate of 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement in this case
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5% and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts
recorded cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, 
and contrary to D C Financials view, there would be little point in Mr T giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme.But here the critical yield assuming Mr T took a full pension at 55 through the existing 
scheme was 13.09%. Unfortunately D C Financial didnt produce a figure based on Mr T 
taking a full pension at 55 through the PPF. But if Mr T were to opt into the BSPS2 and take 
the same benefits at 55, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between that of 
the PPF (had it been provided) and the existing scheme but closer to the existing scheme of 
13.09%. Given this rate was significantly above both the discount rate and the regulators 
upper projection rate, I think Mr T was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value 
than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of 
investing in line with his cautious to moderate attitude to risk.
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the 
benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, would have required 
Mr T to take a higher level of investment risk than he indicated he was prepared to take. And 
while by D C Financial only produced a critical yield figure assuming Mr T took a full pension 
at age 65 through the PPF and not at 55 as well, I think they were likely to be higher than 
those at 65 given the longer period the benefits would be in payment. So I dont think the 
situation was much different here - I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided 
by the PPF was limited if Mr T transferred out of the BSPS.
Given Mr T was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests.
D C Financial has said that during the time it managed Mr Ts pension, it achieved growth of 
5.28%, which is higher that the critical yield to match Mr Ts benefits through the PPF at 65, 
and it says it sees no reason why this wouldnt have continued with suitable advice. But the 
advice was predicated on Mr T retiring at 55. Ive already said that D C Financial didnt 
produce a critical yield figure for the PPF at 55, but I think its likely it wouldve been higher 
than the figure at 65. So given this and the fact that the critical yield figure for the BSPS2 
was likely higher still, I think this only supports my view that the transfer was not financially 
viable and Mr T was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result.                   
I can see that D C Financial says that the critical yield should not be a substantive 
consideration when looking at whether advice was suitable. It also says the critical yield is of 
limited relevance because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough 
to purchase an annuity and Mr T didnt want an annuity. But crucially the regulator required  
D C Financial to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the 
critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr T 
could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 8 years and perhaps 
longer. Its entirely possible that Mr T would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
 
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable and in Mr Ts best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
D C Financials suitability report said that Mr T would like to retire at 55 but was unhappy 
with the high penalties imposed by the BSPS for doing so. It also said he wanted the 
flexibility to be able to take tax-free cash but not have to take an income at the same time.But I dont think Mr T knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
While Mr T was 47 and it wouldnt be unreasonable for him to start to make plans for his 
retirement, based on what Ive seen, he didnt have any concrete retirement plans  in fact I 
dont think he had any real plan. And I think this is supported by whats recorded in the 
advice paperwork where it say that despite Mr Ts preferred retirement age being 55 he was 
prepared to work for longer - until 66 - if he needed to. So it strikes me that, like most 
consumers, if asked, Mr T was interested in retiring early - but his was a nice to have and 
not a specific or firm objective of Mr Ts.
Ive not seen anything to show or suggest Mr T needed variable income throughout 
retirement or that he needed access to a lump sum and delay taking an income. There
was no reason noted for requiring access to a lump sum. Mr Ts mortgage  which seems to
have been his only major debt at the point of the advice  had seven years remaining, so 
this was due to be repaid before he was thinking about accessing his pension benefits. So 
again, when asked, Mr T mightve indicated he liked the idea of taking a lump sum and 
delaying taking an income but I dont think this had been decided.
For these reasons I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out 
of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement 
would be.
D C Financials suitability report said that Mr T was unhappy with the penalty imposed by the 
BSPS for taking early retirement and he thought it was too high. What the adviser was 
referring to here was the actuarial reduction that would apply to Mr Ts DB scheme, or the 
PPF, if he took his benefits early at age 55. The TVAS report estimated that if Mr T took a 
full pension under the existing scheme at age 65 his starting pension would be £21,876 a 
year. And at age 55 his starting pension would be £11,901. Because of the reduced 
revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 these figures would be lower, but in my view still close 
to these figures. Both would continue to escalate while in payment. Under the PPF Mr Ts 
starting pension at age 65 was estimated to be £18,204  no figure was provided for age 55. 
I accept the idea of potentially receiving less income a year wasnt something Mr T would be
happy about. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid
for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from
age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking an income
at age 55 Mr T wouldve been receiving his pension for 10 years longer. So its a trade-off,
rather than a penalty  in my view the word penalty implies the DB scheme was inferior. In 
simple terms, it meant that Mr T couldnt have the same pension he was due at 65 at age 55 
 hed have to accept less because it would potentially be paid for longer. And I think this 
shouldve been made clearer to Mr T.
Mr Ts income need was recorded as being £1,800 a month net or just over £23,500 gross a 
year. Ive already said that I dont think the transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
financially viable. And its clear that at age 55 Mr Ts income need wouldnt have been met 
by either the BSPS2 or the PPF if the scheme hadnt gone ahead. And while Mr T and his 
employer were contributing to his new workplace Defined Contribution (DC) scheme  20% 
combined contribution  which at 55 had the potential to produce a pension fund of around 
£60,000 (not accounting for growth) this was unlikely to provide the difference Mr T needed.
But crucially as I said above, Mr Ts plans to retire at 55 were not set in stone. At age 65 the 
likely income available through the BSPS2 was much closer to his target income. And given 
the extra years contributions to his DC scheme, Mr T wouldve likely had a not insignificant 
pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed. So I think any shortfall couldve been met by accessing income and/or lump sums from here  certainly until his state pension 
became payable. So I think D C Financial ought to have pointed out to Mr T that his income 
target wasnt achievable or realistic at 55, but that at 65 it was, so that he could revise his 
plans and accept that hed need to work for longer, which is what its recorded he said he 
was prepared to do in any event.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 
D C Financial indicated hed be entitled to a pension of just over £18,200. This was likely 
lower that the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. But I dont think it was 
substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive 
said above, Mr T wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on flexibly until his state pension 
became payable.
Overall, because Mr Ts plans for retirement were not finalised, I dont think it was in Mr Ts 
best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he 
really needed at the time. 
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr T was concerned about the inflexible death benefits 
of the existing scheme him and he wanted to leave his pension fund to his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy provision tool. And I dont think
D C Financial explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr T predeceased her. I dont think D C Financial made the value of 
this benefits clear enough to Mr T. They were guaranteed and escalated  the spouses 
pension under the BSPS2 would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. 
Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was  so if investment returns were poor and/or Mr T lived a 
long life, there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. In 
any event, D C Financial should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for 
higher or different death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore D C Financial recorded that Mr T had death-in-service cover through his 
employer if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, 
which he could nominate his spouse to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it also 
knew that Mr T was paying into the DC pension scheme and he wouldve been able to 
nominate his spouse and/or children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt 
already done so. 
But if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family over and above that which was 
already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think D C Financial shouldve instead explored 
additional life insurance. And in my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr T 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, after taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which I see no reason why it wouldnt have been affordable given Mr Ts surplus monthly 
income and his good health. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think D C 
Financial did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr T to meet this 
objective.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I have no doubt that Mr T was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr T was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was D C Financials 
obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going 
ahead. So, the advice shouldve been delayed to properly take the benefits available to Mr T 
through the BSPS2 into account, and I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Ts concerns about 
the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that 
D C Financial shouldve reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought or was led to believe.
As I set out above, the income available to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still provided a 
solid base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his income need at 
retirement. He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that Mr Ts concerns shouldve led to D C 
Financial recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr T was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr T. But as I said earlier, D C Financial wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF at a 
time when I dont think his retirement plans were formulated. By transferring to a personal 
arrangement Mr T was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits at his chosen 
retirement age. And I dont think there were any other particular or compelling reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for 
him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Mr T that he should not transfer the benefits of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. And if things had happened as they 
should have and D C Financial had waited until the details of the BSPS2 had been known 
before formulating its advice, it shouldve recommended that Mr T opt into the BSPS2. I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think everything 
pointed to it going ahead. Because Mr Ts retirement plans were not set in stone and he said 
he was prepared to work up to 66 if needed, I don't think that it would've been in his interest 
to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr T wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age - if he needed to. Also, Mr Ts spouses pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement (if Mr T chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice. D C Financial says that, considering Mr T was fully aware of the benefits 
he was sacrificing and bearing in mind the objectives he was keen to achieve, even if theyd 
recommended against transferring, he wouldve continued with the transfer as an insistent 
client.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while 
Mr T was motivated to transfer when he approached D C Financial, on balance, I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened as they 
should have. Mr T was not an experienced investor who, in my view possessed the 
necessary skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were given in 
pension matters. So, if D C Financial had provided Mr T with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had explained that Mr T could meet his income needs in retirement by re-
considering his retirement age as he said he was prepared to do and so not risk his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr T 
would have insisted on transferring out of his scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £150 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr T. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr T. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr Ts retirement provision is 
of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I 
think an award of £150 is fair in all the circumstances.
Finally I can see that D C Financial says that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses as a 
result of any subsequent bad investment advice  a reference to any losses stemming from 
those investments after it ceased managing Mr Ts pension investment. But the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for D C Financials unsuitable advice. So, I dont agree that its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice should be capped when it 
ended its agreement with Mr T.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr T would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair 
that D C Financial calculates Mr Ts redress in line with new guidance and rules when they 
come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider if things had 
happened as they should have and D C Financial had waited until the details of the BSPS2 
had been known before formulating its advice, it shouldve recommended that Mr T opt into 
the BSPS2. So D C Financial should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr T.
D C Financial must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, compensation should be based on Mr T taking benefits at age 65.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and D C 
Financial has received notification of Mr Ts acceptance of my decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay Mr T.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If D C Financial deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. D C Financial should give Mr T 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
D C Financial Limited should also pay Mr T £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman