DRN-2292783
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC Bank (UK) PLC (HSBC) closed his account after it had been 
dormant for 12 months. He says the account balance returned to him was £20,000 less than 
he was expecting.
Mr K brings this complaint on behalf of his business, B Limited.
What happened
Mr K had an account with HSBC that he hadnt used for some time. Between 23 November 
2017 and 6 February 2019, the account sat dormant with the only movement on the account 
being a regular charge of £5.50 a month from HSBC.
HSBC wrote to Mr K on 23 January 2019 and 25 March 2019, asking him to get in touch so it 
could complete a review of his account. It told Mr K the review would need to be completed 
by 29 March 2019. Mr K didnt contact HSBC, so it froze his account on 29 March 2019 and 
wrote to him to confirm it had done so. HSBC repeated its request for Mr K to complete a 
review with HSBC.
Between April and September 2019, Mr K entered into correspondence with HSBC, telling it 
why it wasnt entitled to block his account. HSBC repeatedly requested him to complete a 
review with it, but Mr K declined to do so.
Mr K complained. He said HSBC didnt have authorisation to block the account, and that he 
wanted £13,500 in compensation, increasing the longer HSBC declined to comply with his 
request. He also said £20,000 had disappeared from his account. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint, so he came to our service. 
Our investigator said two payments of £10,000 had been made by telephone banking, using 
security details known to Mr K. He said he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest a third party 
had made the payments, and noted Mr K had declined to answer when HSBC asked him 
about the transactions in April 2019. He concluded that the transactions were authorised by 
Mr K, so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that if, as HSBC had said, the account was dormant, by definition 
the account balance should be the same at the end as it was at the start. So, because the 
balance had decreased by £20,000, HSBC had to pay him £20,000.
Our investigator pointed out that HSBC said the account was dormant for 12 months up to 
January 2019, and that the two £10,000 transactions had left Mr Ks account in March 2019. 
He also reiterated that the evidence suggested Mr K authorised the payments, and again 
noted Mr K had declined to comment when HSBC had asked him about those transfers.
Mr K didnt offer any evidence to support his claim and didnt comment as to whether or not 
he had authorised the two £10,000 transactions himself. 
Because our investigator couldnt reach an agreement, the matter came to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the account in question  which both HSBC and Mr K had to 
comply with  say HSBC can close an account by giving two months notice. 
On 3 September 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr K with notice that it would close his account in two 
months. This was after it had invited Mr K to book an account review on several occasions. It 
cited his declination to complete the review as the reason for its decision. HSBC closed Mr 
Ks account on 6 November 2019.
Im satisfied HSBCs letter gave the correct notice and that HSBC therefore complied with 
the terms and conditions of the account when it closed the same. And so, I cant reasonably 
up this part of Mr Ks complaint or ask HSBC to compensate Mr K.
I also wont be upholding Mr Ks claim that HSBC should refund him the £20,000 that left his 
account on 12 and 13 March 2019. Mr Ks argument is that, because HSBC says his 
account was dormant, he should be due the balance that was in the account before it was 
considered to be dormant. But that is not what HSBC has said. It said his account had been 
dormant for 12 months as at 23 January 2019. The transfers left the account after that date.
Further, and more to the point, all the evidence Ive seen suggests Mr K made the two 
transfers out of his account himself. Before I wrote this decision, I asked Mr K to confirm if 
that was not the case and if he was suggesting the money had been taken from his account 
by someone without his authority. 
Mr K declined to answer my question, and instead repeated his claim that HSBC describing 
his account as dormant must mean the balance at the date of closure was the same as 
before HSBC said it was dormant. Mr K also declined to answer the same question asked by 
HSBC and our investigator.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Ive seen nothing to suggest the transfers in question 
were completed without Mr Ks authority. So I wont ask HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman