DRN-3370985
The complaint
Mr C complains that the plumber provided by his Home Emergency insurer, Inter Partner 
Assistance SA (IPA), failed to repair a leak on his stop tap for two weeks. He said this left 
him without water for several days. He also complains that IPAs plumber misdiagnosed a 
toilet leak. And that this resulted in the flexi-pipe on his toilet being replaced with a pipe that 
didnt have an isolation valve. Hed like the newly installed flexi-pipe to be replaced with one 
that has an isolation valve. And hed also like additional compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
Mr C has Home Emergency cover through his home insurance policy through another 
provider. But IPA are the underwriters for the Home Emergency cover and are responsible 
for this complaint. Ill only refer to them in my decision.
What happened
Mr C contacted IPA on 12 June 2021 to report a leak from his downstairs toilet. A plumber 
attended his property the same day. IPA said that during the visit, the plumber found a leak 
on the toilet flexi-pipe. They said he replaced it and tested for further leaks. But found none.
Mr C said that the plumber had misdiagnosed the cause of the toilet leak. He said it didnt 
come from the flexi-pipe. As the plumber had replaced the flexi-pipe with one with no 
isolation valve, Mr C said the leak continued and he couldnt stop it without the isolation 
valve. Mr C said he asked IPA to replace the new flexi-pipe with one with an isolation valve 
as he felt the original flexi-pipe had been removed incorrectly. 
Mr C said he had to turn off the water supply. And that he had no water. 
Mr C contacted IPA again on 12 June 2021 as he said the leak had reoccurred. IPA said that 
their plumber went back and found a slight drip from the nut on the ball valve. They said he 
tightened it and this resolved the issue. IPA said that Mr C asked the plumber to replace the 
new flexi-pipe with one that had an isolation valve. They said he was told that that wouldnt 
be covered under the terms of the insurance policy as the leak had been resolved.
Mr C contacted IPA for a third time that day at around 10pm. He said that the leak had 
returned. IPA arranged for a plumber to return to the property the following morning.
On the morning of 13 June 2021, IPA said that the plumber couldnt find any active leaks on 
the toilet. They said that Mr C asked their plumber again about fitting an isolation valve to the 
new flexi-pipe. They said that he was again told that this wasnt covered.
Mr C reported the same issue to IPA a few hours later. But IPA said that they declined to 
visit his property because of their recent visit, where theyd found no active leaks. But they 
did arrange for a plumber to visit that afternoon at Mr Cs request. He had told them he had a 
leak underneath the kitchen sink. He said that when the flexi-pipe had been replaced, the 
plumber turned off the water at the stop tap under the sink, using an iron rod. He said the 
plumber had forcefully twisted the stop tap and that this had damaged it and caused the 
leak. 
The plumber returned to Mr Cs property on 13 June 2021. He found the leak on the stop 
tap. IPA said he removed the nut and wrapped tape around it before refitting it. They said he 
tested the stop tap after completing this work and found no active leaks. They said he told 
Mr C to monitor the situation. And noted that the plumbers report said that before he left the 
property, Mr C told him about a leak from the flexi-pipe on the toilet. They said their plumber 
looked at the flexi-pipe but found no active leaks. They said Mr C was told to monitor this 
separate leak.
Mr C made a further call to IPA on the evening of 13 June 2021. He wanted them to have 
another look at the leak on the toilet. IPA arranged for a plumber to visit the following day. 
On 14 June 2021, IPA said that the plumber checked the stop tap under the kitchen sink and 
the flexi-pipe connected to the toilet. But could find no active leaks. Mr C said that hed tried 
to show the plumber video and photographic evidence of the leaks from the toilet and from 
the stopcock on his phone, but that the plumber ignored the evidence. 
On 15 June 2021, a plumber visited Mr Cs property and replaced the toilets inlet valve. 
Mr C said hed contacted IPA on the 15, 16, 17 and 18 June 2021 to resolve the stop tap 
leaks. He said that IPA told him that theyd arrange a plumber to do the repair work as soon 
as possible. He asked IPA to send a different plumber as he was unhappy with the service 
hed had so far. He said they eventually sent a new plumber on 25 June 2021.
IPA said that Mr C reported another leak on 23 June 2021. Although IPA had recorded that 
the leak was from the cold-water tank, Mr C said this was incorrect. He said he reported a 
leak on the stop tap. He said the plumber again ignored his phone evidence. IPA said they 
arranged for a plumber to visit. They said that Mr C had then told the plumber on that visit 
that there was a drip from the stop tap under the kitchen sink. But that the plumber had 
found no signs of a leak when he checked. 
IPA said that Mr C reported the stop tap leak again on 24 June 2021. IPA arranged for a 
different plumber to visit on 25 June 2021. Mr C said he showed this plumber the photos and 
videos from his phone. And that this enabled a further repair to the stop tap and pipe under 
the sink. 
Mr C complained to IPA about the service hed received.
IPA partly upheld the complaint. They offered Mr C £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
hed suffered. They said that theyd seen evidence that showed there were no active leaks 
during the plumbers visits when no repair work had been carried out. They said that the 
policy only allowed their plumbers to carry out repairs and replace parts to resolve the 
emergency when a leak had been found. They acknowledged that there was evidence that 
there had been an ongoing leak on the stop tap. But said that theyd got no evidence of Mr C 
being without water for an extended period of time. They said their plumbers had confirmed 
that the water supply was never left isolated after any of their visits. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said shed seen no 
evidence that the original toilet leak had been misdiagnosed. Therefore she didnt think it 
was reasonable to ask IPA to replace the flexi-pipe. She said that while shed not seen 
enough evidence that IPA had damaged the stop tap, she felt that they had taken steps to 
put things right over what she considered a reasonable time frame. Our investigator felt 
there wasnt enough evidence that IPA had caused Mr C to be without water for an extended 
period of time. Overall, she considered that IPA had offered Mr C reasonable compensation under the circumstances. And felt that they didnt need to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He said that hed contacted IPA several times 
between 15 June 2021 and 18 June 2021, as well as the contact points shed noted. He said 
that the stop tap hadnt been leaking before the first plumber damaged it. And he said that 
the toilet leak was persistent, as hed shown in the video hed shared with this service, which 
he felt showed water leaking profusely from the cistern inlet valve at the base of the toilet 
water tank. He said that although the first plumber had ignored the video, the second 
plumber had known straight away after seeing it when the leaks had occurred. He said that if 
the toilet leak had come from the flexi-pipe there wouldve been no more leaks. 
Our investigator asked IPA to review their claim notes and attendance records in light the 
additional contacts Mr C had mentioned. IPA provided a timeline of events that excluded the 
contacts Mr C said hed made between 15 June 2021 and 18 June 2021. It also didnt cover 
the repair work that had been carried out on 15 June 2021. Our investigator asked IPA to 
investigate the work done on that date. 
IPA were able to provide evidence that their plumber had attended Mr Cs property on 15 
June 2021. And that theyd replaced the inlet valve on his toilet at 4.30pm on that day. 
Our investigator also shared the short video clip Mr C had provided with IPA. This showed 
the leak to his toilet AFTER the flexi-hose had been replaced. She asked IPA to comment on 
Mr Cs points that their plumber had misdiagnosed the leak and replaced the flexi-hose 
unnecessarily. 
IPA asked their plumbers for information. The plumber said that on 12 June 2021 they had 
found the leak coming from the flexi-pipe. Theyd replaced it with a new one and confirmed 
that had resolved the leak. They said that theyd not been able to help when Mr C had 
repeatedly asked for the new flexi-pipe to be replaced with one with an isolation valve. This 
was because the new flexi-pipe wasnt leaking. As there was no home emergency, the 
replacement wasnt covered under the policy. The plumber acknowledged that the toilet inlet 
valve had been replaced on 15 June 2021 by another plumber. But said that the pictures 
theyd taken during each of their visits showed that there werent any leaks from the toilet 
during any of their earlier visits.
Our investigator issued an update to her view on 14 March 2022. She said shed reviewed 
all the additional evidence provided. But that it hadnt changed her position. She said that 
although the toilet inlet valve had been replaced on 15 June 2021, she felt that this wasnt a 
pre-existing issue and was separate to the previous repairs carried out to the flexi-pipe. She 
explained that the reason she felt this way was that before the valve replacement on 15 June 
2021, plumbers had visited the property on five separate occasions to investigate leaks 
around the toilet. And shed seen photographic evidence from those visits which supported 
the plumbers position that thered been no leaks present during the visits. She didnt feel 
that the evidence supported Mr Cs complaint that there was a misdiagnosis of the original 
leak. Or that IPA should be asked to replace the new flexi-pipe.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mr C. But Im 
satisfied that IPA took reasonable steps to put things right. Ill explain why.There are several aspects to this complaint which Ill consider in my decision. These are:
Did IPA fail to repair the stop tap for 2 weeks, and did this mean that Mr C was left 
without a water supply?
Did IPA misdiagnose the original repair required for the toilet? And should they be 
required to replace the new flexi-pipe with one with an isolation valve?
Is the compensation IPA have offered Mr C fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of his complaint?
Did IPA fail to repair the stop tap for 2 weeks, and did this mean that Mr C was left without a 
water supply?
Mr Cs complaint is that IPA failed to repair his stop tap for two weeks. He said that IPAs 
plumber damaged the stop tap and caused it to leak when they used an iron rod to forcefully 
twist the stop tap. And that this caused him to be without water as he didnt feel he could 
leave his supply switched on while he had a leak. 
After the initial repair work to the stop tap on 13 June 2021, Mr C said hed contacted IPA on 
14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 June 2021 to resolve the stop tap leak. And that IPA had told him 
theyd arrange a plumber to carry out the required repairs as soon as possible. But that they 
didnt send a plumber until 25 June 2021.
IPA acknowledged that there was evidence that there had been an ongoing leak on the stop 
tap. And paid £75 compensation to Mr C for the inconvenience theyd caused. But said that 
they didnt ever leave Mr C with no water supply. 
While I acknowledge that Mr C said the first plumber used an iron rod to twist the stop tap, 
Ive not seen any other evidence that the plumber damaged it. Therefore I cant say that on 
balance of probability IPA were responsible for it leaking. Regardless of how the leak 
started, Ive looked at what IPA did to fix the problem. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C first reported a problem with his stop tap on 13 June 2021. The 
plumber who visited that day found the leak and took steps to repair it. But also told Mr C 
that he should keep an eye on it. Mr C then reported that the stop tap was still leaking on 14 
June 2021, and on various other dates in June. IPA arranged for plumbers to visit his 
property on 14 June 2021, 15 June 2021 and 23 June 2021 but found no leaks on the stop 
tap. As I understand it, the stop tap leak was eventually repaired by the new plumber who 
visited Mr Cs property on 25 June 2021.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said and the information theyve provided, 
including the photos Mr C provided. Having done that, I agree with our investigator that the 
stop tap leak mustve been quite slow. I say this because the photos he shared only show a 
small amount of leaked water. And from the visit notes its clear that the plumbers who 
visited the property on 14, 15 and 23 June 2021 couldnt locate a leak. The plumber who 
visited the property on 25 June 2021 was able to locate a leak. And carried out a repair.
I dont consider that just because the plumber who visited on 25 June 2021 took steps to 
repair a leak, that means the plumbers who visited the property earlier in June shouldve 
also done so. From what Ive seen, those plumbers couldnt identify that there was a leak 
during their visits, despite looking for it. Therefore I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold them responsible for not repairing it during their earlier visits. IPA have 
acknowledged that there was evidence of an ongoing leak. And paid £75 compensation  
effectively for not finding it sooner. So while I do understand that it mustve been frustrating for Mr C to have to wait to get the leak repaired, I consider that IPA took reasonable steps to 
put things right.   
In respect of Mr C turning his water supply off, I acknowledge that it mustve been very 
difficult for Mr C. But Ive found no evidence that IPA told him to turn off the supply. And 
theyve confirmed that their plumbers never left him without a water supply. Therefore, I cant 
uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint. 
Did IPA misdiagnose the original repair required for the toilet? And should they be required 
to replace the new flexi-pipe with one with an isolation valve?
Mr Cs complaint is that IPAs plumber misdiagnosed the original leak to the toilet. And in 
doing so, replaced the flexi-pipe with an inferior version when they shouldnt have replaced it 
at all. Hed like IPA to replace the flexi-pipe with one that has an isolation valve. 
IPA said that the repair was the correct one and that the policy doesnt allow their plumbers 
to replace a part that isnt leaking. 
After the flexi-pipe had been replaced, Mr C could still see a leak. He reported this and the 
plumber tightened the nut to the cistern. After hed done this, he couldnt identify a leak. But 
on 15 June 2021, a different plumber visited and replaced the toilet inlet valve. 
Mr C has shared a video of the leak to his toilet which shows quite a serious leak. He said 
that the original plumber hadnt looked at the video. But that the second plumber had. And 
that hed immediately known what needed to be done having done so. Mr C feels that the 
video shows that the leak was related to the toilet inlet valve. And that this shows the original 
repair was the wrong one. 
Ive considered all the evidence presented. And while I acknowledge how unlucky it was for 
Mr C to have two separate leaks to his toilet so close to each other, I havent seen enough 
evidence that the original plumber misdiagnosed the first leak to uphold this part of the 
complaint. I say this because the video Mr C shared with this service shows a significant 
leak, that wouldve been obvious to the first plumber. And the photos Ive seen from the first 
plumbers visit dont show any sort of obvious leak. But they do show a rusting flexi-pipe. 
The photos from the second visit also show no leak from the toilet. From what Ive seen, I 
think its more likely than not that the original plumber correctly diagnosed the first leak to the 
flexi-pipe. But then the second leak occurred some time after that repair was carried out.  
The original plumber found a leak coming from the flexi-pipe and replaced it under the terms 
of Mr Cs Home Emergency cover. Under the terms of the policy, a temporary repair can be 
made to stop further damage being caused. The terms state the following specifically about 
parts (page 41):
We may not replace parts on a like for like basis but will provide an alternative suitable for 
containing the Emergency.
I understand why Mr C would prefer to have a flexi-pipe with an isolation valve fitted. But 
from what Ive seen, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require IPA to do that.  
Distress and inconvenience
IPA have acknowledged that they caused Mr C some distress and inconvenience and paid 
him £75 in compensation. 
Mr C said IPA put him through a very hard time. He said thered been lots of callouts and delays and he doesnt feel that £75 reflects the time he had to take to get the leaks resolved. 
He said he felt £200 would be more reasonable.
Mr C also told this service that he had to shower and bathe at a friends home during this 
time to avoid having his own water on.
I acknowledge that this wouldve been a difficult time for Mr C. And Im sorry that he felt he 
couldnt leave his water switched on. But Ive seen no evidence that IPA told him to turn off 
his water supply. And IPAs plumbers have said that they never left him without a water 
supply. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold IPA responsible for Mr Cs decision to 
turn his water off.
I understand Mr Cs position that he had to make lots of calls. And that he had to chase IPA 
many times to get them to resolve the leaks. But from what Ive seen, IPA generally reacted 
quickly to his requests for assistance. They fixed two separate leaks to his toilet. And two 
separate issues with his stop tap. They made a total of eight visits to Mr Cs property over a 
period of less than two weeks. They provided a different plumber when he asked them to. I 
appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr C to sort out the leaks, but I cant fairly say that 
IPA made it particularly difficult for him to do so.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that IPA have already taken 
reasonable steps to put things right. While I acknowledge that the complaint has caused 
several concerns for Mr C, I dont uphold it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman