DRN-2443659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have buildings and contents insurance policy with Fairmead. On 24 July 2020, 
they noticed water coming into their home through the roof after a period of rain. They made 
a claim and provided photographs of the damage and a quotation for repairs. 
Fairmead appointed a surveyor to attend the property and assess the damage. He 
concluded the roof elevations, in particular the areas above the landing, showed long-term 
wear and tear. He couldnt confirm the damage being claimed for was caused by an insured 
peril.
Fairmead declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It said it had checked local weather records on the 
day of the incident and storm conditions werent present. It also said Mr and Mrs Ps policy 
excluded damage caused due to wear and tear.
Our investigator concluded Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim; she too 
didnt find the weather conditions experienced around Mr and Mrs Ps area amounted to a 
storm. And she thought it was fair and reasonable for Fairmead to apply the wear and tear 
exclusion in this instance.
Mr and Mrs P have asked for an ombudsmans final decision. In summary, theyve said 
theyre not satisfied with the claim being decided based on just weather reports. They say 
theyve spent around £4,000 on roof repairs and it has been kept in good condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about their complaint. But I can only reasonably uphold it if 
I find Fairmead acted unfairly.
The starting point for any complaint about an insurance claim is the contract between the 
parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is provided, definition 
and any exclusions that apply.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy is not an all risks policy. This means it doesnt provide cover for all 
eventualities. The only event it provides cover for are the insured perils listed within the 
policy document. These include  amongst others  theft, escape of water, fire, and damage 
caused by storm, flood or weight of snow. That means for Mr and Mrs Ps claim to succeed, 
it has to be for an insured peril (and for no exclusions to apply).
It isnt in dispute Mr and Mrs Ps property experienced an ingress of water following a period 
of rain. But it doesnt necessarily follow they have a claim under the policy  that depends on 
whether the ingress of water was caused by an insured peril; in this case a storm (the only 
peril that could be applicable as Mr and Mrs P arent covered for accidental damage).
The policy doesnt define storm. We would usually say a storm involves high winds which 
might be accompanied by rain, snow or sleet. Sometimes we might find that rain, snow or 
sleet by itself can constitute a storm. But it would need to have been exceptionally severe 
and this is quite rare. Its also important to note a storm is not the same as mere bad 
weather conditions. It is usually a one-off event, not rain which continues for a prolonged 
period.
Ive looked at the weather records for Mr and Mrs Ps area for 24 July 2020 and the days 
leading up to it. Although there are periods of wind and some rain, these were not of a 
strength or intensity that would lead me to conclude a storm had occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P have said two independent companies they obtained repairs quotes from have 
said the damage was caused by a storm. Ive carefully considered the information contained 
in the quotes. Although they refer to storm damage, I dont find this persuasive. These 
quotes arent as comprehensive as the report from the surveyor. The builders werent there 
to assess and explain how the damage came about, but to provide a quote for repairs. I find 
the surveyors report to be more persuasive. And Im satisfied it is something Fairmead can 
rely on.
Mr and Mrs P have also said theyre unhappy their claim has been decided based on 
weather reports. But in order to consider a complaint about a storm damage claim, it is 
important to establish whether storm conditions occurred. Weather records are a key piece 
of evidence for this. In Mr and Mrs Ps case, Ive not seen enough to disregard the weather 
reports or to depart from our usual approach on how we consider such complaints.
As I conclude there was no storm, it follows the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Ps property 
hasnt been caused by a peril insured under their policy.    
For sake of completeness, even if I were to conclude there were stormy conditions on the 
day (and this isnt my conclusion here), it doesnt follow this claim should succeed. Im 
satisfied from the surveyors report and the pictures that the main or dominant cause of the 
damage to the roof was wear and tear. And so, the damage would be caught by the 
following policy exclusion:
11. Wear And Tear Exclusion
We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or 
indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, 
damp, rising damp, rising water table, insects, vermin, fungus, condensation, rot, 
fading, frost or anything that happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, 
repair, alteration, renovation, restoration or anything reaching the end of its 
serviceable life.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are strongly of the opinion their roof has been kept in good 
condition. But I cant reasonably ignore the opinion of an appointed professional in these 
circumstances. Indeed, the pictures Ive seen corroborate his findings. 
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I conclude Fairmead acted reasonably in declining 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. This is because 
the damage claimed for hasnt been caused by an insured peril. And even if it was, it would 
be caught by the wear and tear exclusion.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman