DRN-2857132
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs R complain about the decision by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) to turn down their buildings insurance claim.
What happened
In 2020, Mr H and Mrs R made a subsidence claim to RSA after cracks in their 
conservatory had become bigger, and the doors wouldnt work properly. RSA turned 
down the claim as it didnt think the conservatorys foundations were sufficient. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H and Mrs R brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Given the conservatory had 
been built in 2002, she thought that if the foundations hadnt been adequate, damage 
would have occurred much earlier. The investigator recommended that RSA accept the 
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 May 2021. Heres what I said:
In turning down the claim, RSA has relied upon the policy exclusion for faulty 
workmanship or the use of defective materials. In relying on an exclusion, the onus falls 
to RSA to show that it most likely applies.
Whilst assessing the claim, RSA arranged site investigations and two boreholes were 
dug. The conservatorys foundations in one area were 120mm deep, and 590mm deep 
in the other. There were no roots found below the foundations, and the drainage was in 
good condition.
As I understand it, RSA thinks the subsidence has been caused by shrinkage of the clay 
soil due to water demands of nearby trees.
Theres a large area of trees close to Mr H and Mrs Rs property. And I note that their 
main house has piled foundations (presumably because of the nearby trees and the clay 
soil).
RSA has provided an extract of building regulations in force at the time the conservatory 
was built. These say that foundations on clay soils shouldnt be less than 0.75m.
Conservatories can be exempt from building regulations. I dont know if Mr H and Mrs Rs 
conservatory was exempt, but even if it was, I think building regulations can be 
considered a guideline for good building practice at the time.
Mr H and Mrs R have provided an information sheet their builder gave them at the time the 
conservatory was built. This says that the specification of the foundation footings may vary 
to accommodate actual ground conditions.
I dont know if the builder was aware that the main house had piled foundations. RSA 
thinks this would have been apparent when digging next to the main house, which isnt 
an unreasonable point. If the builder did know this, then that alone would have likely 
alerted them to the fact that the site conditions warranted deeper foundations than they 
might have planned.
Though even if the builder wasnt aware that the main house had piled foundations, I 
think the builder ought to have made sure the foundations were sufficient for the ground 
conditions (as its information sheet states), and also considered the likely impact of the 
nearby trees.
Given the difference between the recommended depth of foundations on clay soils in 
the building regulations, and the actual depth of the conservatorys foundations (which 
were particularly shallow in one area), I think it was reasonable for RSA to say that the 
foundations of the conservatory were insufficient for the site conditions.
Ive thought about the fact that the conservatory was built in 2002. If signs of damage 
had only happened recently, an argument could be made that the foundations werent 
defective because the conservatory had stood undamaged for a long time. However, I 
dont think the evidence supports that the damage only recently happened. Ill explain 
why.
During the claim, Mr H and Mrs R told RSAs agent that there had always been cracks to 
the lower brickwork walls of the conservatory, but they were never that big. They had 
previously filled in the cracks. However, six months earlier, they said the cracks had 
become much bigger and the doors couldnt be opened, which is why they made the 
claim.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage, and I see theres evidence of repairs where some 
of the cracks have previously been filled in. Theres one crack in particular that has 
widened significantly since the earlier repair had been done. RSA thinks this indicates that 
the repair had been done some time ago. That doesnt seem an unreasonable conclusion.
Also, after RSA had turned down the claim, Mr H and Mrs R contacted RSA in June 2020 
and said the conservatory had stood the test of time until a few years ago. This would 
suggest that the conservatory had showed signs of subsidence for a few years (and 
perhaps for significantly longer, given that the lower brickwork had always had cracks), 
which supports RSAs view that the conservatory was poorly designed.
On balance, and whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr H and Mrs R, I think 
RSA has shown that the conservatory has inadequate foundations, and that this has 
likely led to the subsidence.
I asked both parties to provide me with any comments they wished to make before I 
reached a final decision.
Mr H and Mrs R made the following points:
All nine properties on the development have piled foundations, including those 
that dont border the woodland to the rear or have any trees in the vicinity.
They have no large trees in their garden at all. 
Out of the nine properties, eight of them have had conservatories and they have 
all had issues with movement. Mr H and Mrs R say most have had insurance 
claims upheld.
The house builders have recently revealed it was likely there would be issues 
with any additional structures added. 
They accepted that the cracks in the brickwork had developed over some time. However, they think that if they had made a claim when they first became 
evident, a subsidence claim wouldnt have been paid because they didnt impact 
greatly on the structure. 
They think RSA didnt carry out a proper investigation into the problem. 
RSA didnt provide any further comments by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion expressed in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr H and Mrs R think RSA didnt carry out a proper investigation, but Im satisfied RSA 
carried out sufficient investigations in order to determine that thered been subsidence. They 
also established the depth of the conservatorys foundations. 
I appreciate there arent any large trees in Mr H and Mrs Rs garden, but there is a large 
area of woodland close to their property. I think it was reasonable for RSA to conclude that 
the subsidence had been caused by the affect of those trees on the clay soil. 
Ive noted Mr H and Mrs Rs point that all the conservatories built on the development have 
experienced problems. I cant comment on the other properties, but as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, I think it was reasonable for RSA to conclude that Mr H and Mrs Rs 
conservatory wasnt built with sufficient foundations. If it did have sufficient foundations and 
there was still subsidence damage, then RSA wouldnt have been able to rely on the faulty 
workmanship exclusion to turn down the claim.  
If Mr H and Mrs R had made a subsidence claim when they first noticed the damage, its 
likely this would have still been turned down because of the insufficient foundations. I merely 
referred to the damage being there for some time to explain why I didnt think I could say the 
conservatory had stood undamaged for a long time, despite the shallow foundations. 
I therefore remain satisfied that it was reasonable for RSA to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman