DRN-2976763
The complaint
Miss B complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when she returned her hire vehicle. 
What happened
Miss B entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with MBFS in October 2018. The vehicle 
was returned at the end of the agreement period in February 2021.
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 8 February 2021. The report 
from this inspection notes damage to three alloy wheels that are outside of fair wear and tear 
and indicates that the charge to Miss B for these items will be £330.
Miss B complained to MBFS about these charges. She says the damage to the wheels 
wasnt measured, so there isnt any evidence that its outside of the vehicle return standards. 
Miss B also complained that the return standards dont specify that any damage is added 
together, so any scuffs should be measured in isolation. Finally, Miss B was unhappy with 
the charge of £110 per wheel, saying that shed previously been charged £35 for a damaged 
alloy wheel upon return of a different vehicle under a different agreement. 
MBFS responded to Miss Bs complaint in March 2021. They said the damage is evident and 
outside of the vehicle return standards, so the charge is payable. They also said their 
charges are bench marked against industry standard guidelines and are available to view 
online. 
Unhappy with this, Miss B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss B. He thought the damage to one wheel was clearly outside of the return 
standards, and so MBFS could fairly charge for this. He didnt think the photos showed the 
damage to the remaining two wheels was outside of the return standards, so asked MBFS to 
remove these charges. 
MBFS responded to our investigator with additional photos of the damage. He thought these 
showed that the damage to the remaining two wheels was outside of the return standards, 
so the charges had been fairly applied and MBFS didnt need to do anything more. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said the additional photos were taken a week after the vehicle had 
been collected. She questioned whether the photos were of her car, and what happened to 
the vehicle in the week before the photos were taken. Miss B said MBFS should only be able 
to rely on the photos taken at the time of collection. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B signed a hire agreement in October 2018. The terms of the agreement set out that 
the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle.
 
Its clear from the agreement that Miss B was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.  
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
The damage that MBFS say is outside of fair wear and tear, and therefore payable by Miss 
B, is as follows: 
Tyre sealant  Used  Replace - £60
Left-hand front alloy  Rim damage  Refurb - £110
Right-hand front alloy  Rim damage  Refurb - £110
Right-hand rear alloy  Rim damage  Refurb - £110
Miss B has not disputed the charge for the tyre sealant, so I havent considered this. 
MBFS have provided the photos of the alloys taken at the collection inspection, and 
additional photos taken about a week later at the inspection centre. Miss B is concerned 
about these photos. Ive compared the areas of damage in both sets of photos, and Im 
satisfied that they are the same wheels. The damage appears in the same areas of the 
alloys relative to the branding, the spokes and the air valves.  
There hasnt been a second inspection, nor has any additional damage been charged for. 
So, Im satisfied that these photos are evidence of the damage to the alloys at the time that 
the vehicle was collected. 
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor scuffing or damage 
under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVRLA 
fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
alloy wheel is acceptable, and any damage to the spokes is not acceptable. 
Although the photos arent measured, Im satisfied that they clearly show scuffs over 50mm 
on all three alloys, some of which are severe, and damage to the spokes on at least two of 
the alloys. So, Im satisfied that the charges for repair of all three alloys have been fairly 
applied.
Miss B is unhappy with the level of charges that have been applied, and said shes paid a 
much lower price for damaged alloys when returning other vehicles. 
Ive looked into the damage charges, and I can see that the costs are included on a charging 
matrix on MBFSs website. So, Im satisfied that Miss B could have reviewed these and 
decided whether to have the damage repaired instead of incurring end of contract charges. Ive looked at the charging structures for other manufacturers, and the charges applied by 
MBFS are higher than others. I have the power to require businesses to act in relation to an 
individual where something has gone wrong, but not to order a business to change its 
practices more generally. So, I cant say what MBFS should charge for damage when hire 
vehicles are returned, but I can look at whether they have applied those charges fairly. I am 
satisfied that MBFS apply the same charges to all consumers at the end of the hire 
agreement, so I dont think theyve been applied unfairly in this case. 
Ive thought about whether the charges are excessive. Ive taken into consideration that 
charges do differ between manufacturers. Ive also consulted quotation websites, and the 
average cost to repair alloys is between £80 and £125. All things considered, Im not 
persuaded that the £330 charge applied by MBFS is excessive in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman