DRN-3454908
The complaint
Mr H complains that the loans he had from PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) were 
unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr H had four loans from Mr Lender between June 2016 and June 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 1 Jun 2016 £250 3m £139.33 31 Aug 2016 2 Sep 2016
2 28 Oct 2017 £250 3m £137.33 19 Jan 201812 Feb 2018
1 x deferral
3 14 Feb 2018 £200 3m £113.46 11 May 20187 Jun 2018
1 x deferral
4 9 Jun 2018 £400 3m £216.53 31 Aug 201818 Oct 2018
Repayment plan
Mr H says if Mr Lender had carried out proper checks it would have seen he had several 
loans with other short-term lenders and was using one loan to repay another.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks that were in line with its responsible lending policies. It 
says those checks included an income and expenditure assessment, employment 
confirmation, a credit check and a review of previous borrowing. Mr Lender says the checks 
indicated the loans were affordable but, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr H a £25 
shopping voucher.
Mr H did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender were proportionate and that there was nothing 
to indicate further checks were required or that the repayments were unsustainable. Our 
adjudicator confirmed that the £25 voucher was still available to Mr H.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that hed provided bank statements that showed 
multiple active loans at the time of the Mr Lender loans. He said the information he provided 
was not verified and there was a gap between loans 1 and 2 because Mr Lender refused 
further lending. Mr H added that Mr Lender hasnt even offered to remove the data from his 
credit file and it can donate the £25 to charity if his complaint isnt upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loan 1
Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough in the circumstances of 
this loan. I say that because:This was Mr Hs first loan with Mr Lender and repayments were 8% of his income;
Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr H at this stage of the 
lending and the affordability calculations showed Mr H had sufficient disposable 
income to make the repayments;
The credit checks carried out by Mr Lender showed no adverse information and just 
one other outstanding short-term loan at the time of loan 1;
Loan 2
There was a gap of over a year before Mr H borrowed again from Mr Lender. As such, I find 
it reasonable that Mr Lender should consider this to be a new chain of lending. Mr Lender 
again asked Mr H for information about his income and expenditure and checked his credit 
file. I cant see there was anything in the available information that indicated further checks 
were required or that the repayments were unsustainable.
Loan 3
Mr H applied for loan 3 within two days of repaying loan 2. This time it was for less money 
and the repayments were just over 5% of his income. Although Mr H had deferred the 
repayment of loan 2, I can see that he was entitled to do so within the terms and conditions 
of the loan agreement. Again, there was no adverse information in the credit check and the 
affordability calculation showed Mr H had almost £300 of disposable income with which to 
make the repayments. So I dont find Mr Lender was irresponsible to have approved loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr H again used his right to defer one months payment on loan 3 and then applied for loan 
4 two days after repaying it. As this was Mr Hs third loan in the chain, Id expect Mr Lender 
to ask Mr H about his expenditure. I can see it did that, and it also found out the loan was for 
a one-off purchase. Mr H also said he was not bankrupt or in a debt management plan which 
was confirmed by the credit check. As there was no adverse information on the credit check 
and the repayments were still less than 11% of Mr Hs income Im satisfied Mr Lenders 
checks went far enough and there was nothing to indicate the lending was unsustainable. 
I acknowledge that Mr H has provided bank statements that showed he had other high cost 
loans at the time of the lending, but I dont find Mr Lender was obliged to carry out the level 
of checks that would have been required to show such detail. I find it reasonable that Mr 
Lender relied on the information provided by Mr H and its credit checks and that there was 
nothing to indicate further checks would be proportionate.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman