DRN-2619303
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lumley Baxter Asset Management LLP instructed his pension provider 
to deduct charges from his pension plan, without his consent. 
Mr L says he has suffered a financial loss as a result of Lumley Baxters actions.
What happened
Mr L was a longstanding client of Lumley Baxter. Due to a personal relationship with an 
adviser at the business he wasnt charged for the services it provided to him.
In February 2020, Mr L was notified by his pension provider, that Lumley Baxter had 
instructed it to pay it an ad hoc adviser fee of £12,400 and an ongoing charge of 1%, and 
that units had been encashed to fund the £12,400 fee.
Mr L called his pension provider, cancelled the payment of the fees and instructed it to 
prevent Lumley Baxter from accessing his pension plan. He subsequently rebought the units 
in the same funds but as the unit prices had increased overall, he suffered a loss of £158.77.
Mr L complained to Lumley Baxter. He said:
On Monday 3rd February a document was raised by Aviva notifying me I had agreed to pay 
my agent an ongoing Advisor charge of 1%, I did not agree to this, if your firm thinks I did 
then please forward the signed agreement.
On Wednesday 5th February a document was raised by Aviva notifying me I had agreed to 
pay my agent an ad hoc charge of £12,400.00, I did not agree to this, if your firm thinks I did 
then please forward the signed agreement.
When looking at the portfolio breakdown I could see investments had been cashed to value 
of just over £12,400.00, I did not give permission for your firm to do this.
Lumley Baxter responded to Mr Ls complaint. It said:
As you know, LBAM charge adviser fees of 4% initial, plus 1% p.a. on-going for professional 
services. Any deviations from these fees are by special arrangement only - a special 
arrangement with a family member, for example. This special arrangement may include 
allocating monies to investment funds; reallocating monies and fund switching (including into 
cash funds) on your behalf.
Your special arrangement is not a right, it is a concession and a privilege  a privilege 
afforded to the very few!...
Your expectation that you will never pay any adviser fees, whatsoever, is preposterous 
and unsustainable for any business.
I acknowledge that you no longer wish to benefit from the kind and generous pro bono 
service from [name of financial adviser] (and no one else at LBAM is prepared to work for 
nothing) so your special arrangement is now terminated and we will notify the product 
providers accordingly! 
Mr L was not satisfied with Lumley Baxters response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Having considered the information and evidence available our investigator said he was of 
the view that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
He noted that after the complaint had been referred to this service, Lumley Baxter said that 
its intention had been to switch some of Mr Ls funds, and that it had not intended to take 
any fees when it instructed Mr Ls pension provider to pay an ad hoc adviser fee of £12,400 
and an ongoing adviser charge of 1%, in February 2020. 
It provided evidence to show that a fund switch had been discussed around two months 
before the events complained about.
The pension provider supplied a screenshot of the screen on which the charge would have 
been keyed. Our investigator said he didnt think someone attempting a fund switch could 
have requested a one-off charge by mistake. 
He noted that when keying a one off charge the person inputting the instruction had to 
specifically select Add ad hoc adviser charge and tick a box to agree to the statement:
I confirm on behalf of my advisory firm that I have provided my client with the Charges 
Information Document (which provides aggregated costs and charges for their investment) 
and obtained consent from my client(s) to the charges specified.
He also noted that Mr L had provided this service with screenshots of messages sent within 
a WhatsApp group. In the messages Gerbil, who Mr L said was his adviser at Lumley 
Baxter, said to Mr L on 2 February 2020, the day before Lumley Baxter instructed Mr Ls 
pension provider to pay an ad hoc adviser charge of £12,400:
and, [Mr L], the deferred fees on your Aviva pension are £12,400  I will take these on-
line tomorrow!
In view of this our investigator said he was persuaded that Lumley Baxter had intend to take 
a fee of £12,400 from Mr Ls pension. He said he did not accept that it had been attempting 
to make a fund switch. He explained that, as Lumley Baxter would be aware, it is required by 
its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to disclose its fees and charging 
structure before making a recommendation and before any fees are applied.
As Lumley Baxter was unable to provide anything to show that the fees and charging 
structure it had sought to apply had been agreed with Mr L our investigator said he was of 
the view that Lumley Baxter had not treated Mr L fairly when it had sought to retrospectively 
charge for services it had agreed to provide at no cost to Mr L.
He also noted that the 1% ongoing adviser charge (which was deducted from Mr Ls pension 
plan for one month) should not have been applied unless Lumley Baxter had disclosed this 
charge in advance, and provided cancellation rights to Mr L. He said he had not been 
provided with anything to show that Lumley Baxter had done so.
In order to put matters right, he said Lumley Baxter should compensate Mr L for the loss he 
had suffered when he re-bought the funds that had been sold to pay the ad hoc adviser fee and it should repay the ongoing adviser fee that had been deducted from Mr Ls pension 
plan. He also said Lumley Baxter should pay Mr L £200 for the trouble and upset this matter 
had caused.
Lumley Baxter responded to say it did not accept our investigators view. It said that it felt his 
view was not fair and reasonable. It made the following points:
-it felt that our investigator had given insufficient weight (if any) to evidence and facts;
-it disputed whether the message from Gerbil in the WhatsApp group was, in fact, 
Mr Ls adviser at Lumley Baxter. It suggested that this service should require 
independent verification that the message was genuine.
-it said, The WhatsApp message of 2nd February 2020 actually confirms LBAMs 
assertion that no fees were ever going to be taken! If authentic, it states fees will be 
taken tomorrow. However, no fees were taken on the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th or 10th 
February 2020. Six working days and six opportunities to take fees, yet none were 
taken! A fair and reasonable person may conclude that is because there was never 
any intention, by Gerbil or anyone else, to take any fees!
It also said it felt that Mr L was culpable if not wholly responsible for his own loss as he had 
simply reinvested the cash monies at a time and a price of his own choosing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When determining a complaint, I am required to decide what I think is fair and reasonable 
based on the information available. Where the information provided is incomplete or 
disputed  as it is here  I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is to 
say what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances of the complaint. 
In February 2020 Mr L was notified by his pension provider that Lumley Baxter had 
instructed it to pay a £12,400 ad hoc adviser fee from his pension plan and to pay an 
ongoing adviser fee of 1%. 
Very shortly after he received the letters from his pension provider Mr L complained to 
Lumley Baxter. If, as Lumley Baxter has subsequently claimed, the encashment was simply 
in relation to a planned fund switch and had been incorrectly input as an ad hoc adviser 
charge by its administrator, it is not clear to me why, in its email dated 17 February 2020 to 
Mr L it said:
As you know, LBAM charge adviser fees of 4% initial, plus 1% p.a. on-going for professional 
services. Any deviations from these fees are by special arrangement only - a special 
arrangement with a family member, for example. This special arrangement may include 
allocating monies to investment funds; reallocating monies and fund switching (including into 
cash funds) on your behalf.
Your special arrangement is not a right, it is a concession and a privilege  a privilege 
afforded to the very few!...
You have received many £000s of professional advice and service from LBAM over a 
number of years.This professional advice has been wholly and singularly responsible for your investments 
increasing by several tens of £000s in value.
I can find no evidence of you ever paying any adviser fees at all for this service and advice 
either historically or recently.
Your expectation that you will never pay any adviser fees, whatsoever, is preposterous and 
unsustainable for any business.
I acknowledge that you no longer wish to benefit from the kind and generous pro bono 
service from [name of financial adviser] (and no one else at LBAM is prepared to work for 
nothing) so your special arrangement is now terminated and we will notify the product 
providers accordingly! 
If there had simply been a genuine error on Lumley Baxters part, and it had only intended to 
switch Mr Ls fund holdings when it instructed his pension provider to pay it an ad hoc 
adviser fee, I think Lumley Baxter would have immediately explained this to Mr L when he 
queried the letter he had received from his pension provider about the £12,400 ad hoc 
adviser fee. 
But in its response to Mr L, Lumley Baxter made no reference to fund switching. Instead, the 
response referred to a falling out between Mr L and his adviser. It then explained that 
Lumley Baxter had provided free financial advice and services to Mr L for a number of years. 
At no point in this response did it suggest that there had been an error when it instructed 
Mr Ls pension provider to pay a £12,400 ad hoc adviser fee from Mr Ls pension pot and to 
pay a 1% ongoing adviser fee. 
In view of this I am not persuaded that the claims Lumley Baxter has subsequently made in 
relation to a fund switch are correct.
As our investigator explained, and as Lumley Baxter will be aware as a regulated financial 
business, it is required to disclose its fees and charging structure before making a 
recommendation and before any fees are applied. I have not seen anything to show that it 
disclosed its fees and charges to Mr L before it made recommendations to him. Likewise, I 
have not seen anything to show that Mr L had agreed to pay fees retrospectively for advice 
and services that Lumley Baxter confirmed to Mr L had been provided as a kind and 
generous pro bono service.
I note the comments Lumley Baxter has made about the WhatsApp messages provided to 
this service by Mr L. It is beyond the remit of this service to independently verify whether the 
messages are genuine. For the avoidance of any doubt I have not based my decision on the 
disputed messages. I am satisfied, based on the other information and evidence that has 
been provided to this service that it is more likely than not that Lumley Baxter did take steps 
to take an ad hoc adviser fee of £12,400 from Mr Ls pension plan and a 1% ongoing 
adviser charge, without Mr Ls permission.
As this is the case my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Lumley Baxter says it feels Mr L was culpable if not wholly responsible for his own loss as 
he had simply reinvested the cash monies at a time and a price of his own choosing. I do 
not agree with Lumley Baxters position. Mr L has suffered a loss as Lumley Baxter 
instructed Mr Ls pension provider to pay it a £12,400 ad hoc adviser fee. 
In good faith Mr Ls pension provider encashed holdings in Mr Ls pension pot to pay the fee 
that Lumley Baxter incorrectly claimed Mr L had consented to. In view of this I am satisfied that Lumley Baxter should put Mr L back in the position he would now be in, but for the 
incorrect information Lumley Baxter gave to his pension provider. 
I note that Mr L says he feels Lumley Baxter  deliberately chose to try and mislead their 
governing body and he wants the business to be prosecuted or reprimanded for fraud. As 
our investigator explained, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the industry regulator. 
Our role is to determine complaints based on their individual merits, we dont have the power 
to fine or take disciplinary action against regulated businesses  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If Mr L would like to pursue his concerns about the 
actions of Lumley Baxter in relation to this matter, he may wish to contact the FCA directly.
Putting things right
In order to put matters right Lumley Baxter should arrange with Mr Ls pension provider to 
repay the ongoing adviser fee it deducted from Mr Ls pension plan.
It should also confirm with Mr Ls pension provider the current combined value of the units 
lost and gained as a result of the sale and repurchase of units in February 2020. If there is a 
loss overall, Lumley Baxter should arrange with Mr Ls pension provider to augment the 
value of the plan by that sum, taking account of the applicable tax relief. 
If Lumley Baxter cannot make a payment into Mr Ls pension plan, it should pay the amount 
to Mr L, less a deduction equivalent to his marginal tax rate.
In addition, Lumley Baxter should pay Mr L £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused him.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman