DRN-3855885
The complaint
Mr M complains Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr M opened a credit card account Sainsburys and on 9 November 
2021 transferred a balance from another card onto this account. Hes unhappy Sainsburys 
defaulted this account on 21 July 2022. Mr M says they get didnt any message, email or call 
him to make him aware of the problem and he hasnt received any letters from them. When 
he received a letter about the default, he paid the full balance immediately. 
Mr M said he didnt realise that if he didnt pay monthly payments the account would default. 
Hed made some payments of his own back and didnt get any messages saying the account 
would default unless certain amounts were paid on a monthly basis. He said hed even 
asked a few times when logged into the online banking facility as to why interest was being 
charged and no one told him them that he needed to make the monthly payments. He 
doesnt think theyve done everything by the book and shouldve notified him of the 
circumstances before defaulting the account. Mr M asked for Sainsburys to remove he 
default from his credit record.
In its Final Response Letter stared 21 August 2021 Sainsburys didnt uphold this complaint. 
They didnt think theyd made any error on Mr Ms account. They said emails were sent each 
month advising his statement was available to view and download. They could see from his 
records that he was registered for online access to this account and had logged into his 
account, so they thought he had full access to the status of it. They said the account fell into 
arrears in November 2021 and the collections team wrote to and texted Mr M on numerous 
occasions about the account but didnt hear from him and the account remained in arrears. 
They finally sent a notice of default on 23 June 2022 requesting a payment by 21 July 2022 
to prevent a default. As payment wasnt received the account defaulted. Sainsburys said 
what theyd reported was a true reflection of how the account was maintained and the 
default had been applied correctly in line with the terms of this account. They were unable to 
remove the default.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the payment requirements and the 
consequences of non-payment were made clear. She found Mr M had access to his account 
and Sainsburys had also sent several letters to his home explaining what he needed to do 
to clear the arrears before the default in July 2022.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter. He told us he
Was under the impression a direct debit was set up when he made the online 
application;
Didnt think an email notification of the statement being available to view constituted 
him being told the account was in arrears and payment needed to be made;
Didnt go through every clause in the agreement when applying;
Didnt think Sainsburys had done all they reasonably could;
Had only received one letter from the debt collection agency to settle the account, 
after the default, which he did within days;
Didnt see how the investigator could collate him using the secure messaging system 
to say he shouldve known the account was defaulted in July 2022 as there were no 
messages even by that point to say the account was being defaulted.
The investigator reviewed matters but didnt change her view on this. Mr M reiterated hed 
had no notification of the default and there were multiple ways Sainsburys couldve told him 
such as email phone or online messaging.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
The issue here Mr M thinks Sainsburys shouldve done more to let him know there was a 
problem on his account. Both in terms of required monthly payments not being made and the 
eventual final default of the account in July 2021. But I disagree. Like the investigator I think 
Sainsburys have done everything they should and have defaulted the account in line with the 
terms of the agreement. And I think theyve also reported an accurate reflection of the 
activity on the account to credit reference agencies. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr M says he didnt realise not making monthly payments would lead to a default and that no 
one told him he needed to make monthly payments. For the avoidance of doubt the signed 
credit agreement of 27 September 2021 sets out the position on minimum payments. In 
section 2 it states, each month where you have a balance outstanding on the account you 
must repay the greater of  and sets out the three basis on which that will be calculated. 
And in section 7 it details severe consequences of missing a payment and warns it could 
make obtaining credit more difficult. So, Im satisfied Mr M was or ought to have been 
aware of the requirement to make a minimum payment here from the outset. Mr M told us he 
didnt go through every clause in the agreement. That was his choice but he agreed to the 
terms. So, irrespective of whether he chose to read it in full, it was his responsibility to 
comply with the agreement.
Im also satisfied the bank had discharged their obligations in terms of sending information to 
Mr M who was registered for online access to this account. Ive seen monthly statements 
which set out the minimum payment clearly and the implications when that hasnt been paid 
the month before for both the account and Mr Ms credit rating. So, Im also satisfied Mr M 
received monthly emails showing these were available to view. And I can see from the 
Sainsburys records Mr M has been able to successfully log into the online facility on this 
account on several occasions during this time he held the account. 
The details of the multiple letters sent following missed payments, giving notice of the 
arrears and the default have already been set out by the investigator in her second view so I 
wont repeat that here. Ive seen copies of those letters. I acknowledge Mr M said he didnt 
get any letters from Sainsburys but, on balance, Im satisfied they were sent. I dont know 
why it is that Mr M has not been receiving his mail, but I cannot safely conclude that this is 
as a result of something that Sainsburys has done wrong.
As well as the obligations on Sainsburys, Mr M has a responsibility to manage this account 
within its terms. That includes making sure any arrangements he thought were in place for 
payment were there. Aside from any information or communication Sainsburys had to send 
him, Mr M would see on his bank account - from which he thought a direct debit was being 
taken - that this wasnt the case. This would also have been shown on opening and reading 
his monthly statement. It was for Mr M to check this and ensure all was in order and as he 
expected. Had he opened the statements he would have seen the required minimum payment and - in later statements - that this wasnt being made and interest and charges 
were being applied to his account. And, on balance, it seems to me he did this at least once, 
to discover he was being charged interest which led to his query in May 2022. 
Mr Ms acknowledged hes used the secure online messaging to contact the Sainsburys. 
The contact notes/system notes theyve sent us show an online discussion initiated by Mr M 
on 17 May 2022. At this point it was over a month before the notice of arears was sent and 
two months before the default. Mr M asked why he was being charged interest on a balance 
transfer. Its not clear to me how Mr M could know there were interest charges on the 
account if he didnt receive the letters or hadnt opened and read a statement(s) showing 
this. In reply to his query Sainsburys said. I can see that you have been late each month 
with your payments therefore you have been charged late fees and interest as you have now 
lost the promotion on your accountyour promotion will not be reinstated and interest 
will be charged each month to your account unless you pay the balance in full each 
month... I think its reasonable to assume Mr M saw his reply, as he initiated the 
conversation so wouldve been expecting a response. Although I cant see he responded to 
this explanation or challenged the comment about many late monthly payments in any way.
Sainsburys have an obligation to report accurately to credit reference agencies. As I dont 
think theyve made any mistakes here I wont ask them to alter what theyve reported. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Sainsburys have done anything 
wrong here and Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman