DRN-4418279
The complaint
Ms R complains about the price quoted by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) to renew her motor insurance policy. She also complains about the delay in 
dealing with her claim under her policy.  
What happened
Ms Rs car was damaged while parked and unattended, so she made a claim to Advantage. 
Ms R says, initially, there were no garages available in her local area, but Advantage did 
then find a garage and her car was taken in for repairs. While the claim was ongoing, Ms R 
received a renewal invite which she says was significantly higher than what shed paid the 
previous year. So, Ms R complained about this and about delays caused during the claim 
process. 
Advantage responded and explained the repairs still arent complete. They apologised for 
the delay in getting Ms Rs car repaired and not contacting her over a period of a few 
months, so they offered £150 compensation. They explained they understand it will feel 
unfair to Ms R for her premium to increase due to having an open claim on her policy. They 
said, when setting a price for Ms Rs policy, they looked at how likely it was a claim would be 
made and how much it would cost. They said, all claims, regardless of fault, can increase the 
likelihood that another claim will be made, which is why the price can increase. They said the 
claims history isnt the only factor which can increase the price.     
Our investigator looked into things for Ms R. He upheld the complaint about the claim delays 
and recommended Advantage pay an additional £250  bringing the total compensation for 
the claim delays to £400. He also felt Advantage hadnt provided our service with sufficient 
information to show no error had been made when calculating Ms Rs renewal  so he 
recommended they pay Ms R £100 for this. Ms R agreed and Advantage also agreed to the 
£400 compensation for the claim delays. But Advantage disagreed with the £100 for the 
pricing complaint so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
Claim delays 
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Advantage accept they got 
things wrong during the claim process and have agreed to increase their offer of £150 by 
£250  bringing the total compensation for this part of the complaint to £400. Given that I 
think £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and theres no dispute between the 
parties on this, I wont comment any further on this part of the complaint. 
Renewal price 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Ms R paid £491.62 for her premium in 2022, and she was then quoted a price of 
£1,553.06 for her 2023 renewal  which is 216% more than what shed paid the previous 
year. So, I understand why Ms R is concerned about the price increase which led her to take 
out a policy with another insurer. Advantage say the accident forms part of Ms Rs driving 
history and is a rating factor when setting a premium. They confirm the price is correct and 
one of the differences between the price in 2022 and 2023 is attributable to a fault claim.  
When our service looks at complaints about pricing, well ask for information from a business 
to demonstrate why and how a price has increased. What information is considered 
reasonable will depend on a case by case basis, but insurers generally will provide 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how a customers price has been 
calculated. This might involve evidence of rating factors and loading tables to show, more 
specifically, which loadings have increased to justify the price increase. Generally, and 
particularly in cases where the price has increased significantly, its this level of detail that 
allows our service to check the information and provide a customer with reassurance that 
there hasnt been a mistake in the calculation and that theyve been treated fairly and no 
different to any other customer in the same circumstances.  
In this case, Advantage have provided a breakdown of the premium  showing the individual 
components making up the renewal price. Advantage say they arent able to provide any 
further information. Theyve described how their rating strategy now works  they say all 
ratings are built into the system and are produced electronically. They say, in this case, the 
renewal was calculated by the system with no manual intervention  and theyve provided a 
screenshot of their system showing the date and time the renewal was generated. They say 
their rating changes go through a testing process prior to going live to ensure theyre 
performing as expected. Advantage also say their appetite for risk is constantly being 
reviewed and its not just determined by the addition of a claim. They say its not unusual for 
a price to increase at renewal and this can also be down to a general increase. I have 
carefully considered Advantages points about how their system works and the information 
provided. But, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded theres sufficient 
evidence to satisfy me the increase is fair. 
I say this because Advantage havent provided sufficient information or an explanation for 
how any ratings have affected the price. I accept having a claim recorded on a policy is likely 
to be a factor which would increase a loading on any claim related factors. But again, I 
havent been provided with any information or explanation for how this claim impacted the 
price and to what extent. 
I do wish to make it clear Im not saying there has been an error in the pricing calculation. 
Instead, the reason Im upholding this part of Ms Rs complaint is, given the significant 
increase in the price here, I would need to see evidence and a clear explanation showing why and how the price increased as it did for Ms Rs renewal  and in this case, this 
information hasnt been provided in a way which would allow me to reassure Ms R that 
theres been no error here. So, taking this into account, I understand why Ms R was left 
frustrated and confused by the price increase  and I think compensation of £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.   
  
Advantage say Ms R had no obligation to accept the quote and, given they provided a 
renewal quote a month before the renewal due date, they believe it gave Ms R sufficient time 
to shop around for alternative cover. They say, on this basis, they dont feel its fair to award 
any compensation. I acknowledge Advantages points here and, while I dont dispute Ms R 
was given sufficient time to shop around, it doesnt change the fact there was an impact on 
Ms R in receiving a price significantly higher than what shed paid the previous year. And 
while its not unfair or unusual for a price to increase the following year, the issue here is 
that, given the circumstances of this case, Advantage havent been able to provide sufficient 
information for me to conclude the price is fair. I can see Advantage have referred to their 
website which contains information on reasons a price might increase. I have considered 
this, but Im not persuaded this provides a sufficient explanation for Ms Rs price increase as 
the information is generic and not specific to Ms Rs renewal price and circumstances.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Advantage have caused delays during the repair process, and they 
havent provided sufficient information or a clear explanation to demonstrate why and how 
Ms Rs price increased as it did for her renewal. So, for the complaint about delay, in 
addition to the £150 already offered, Advantage should increase their offer by £250 and pay 
Ms R £400 for this part of the complaint. And, in relation to the pricing complaint, Advantage 
should pay Ms R £100 compensation for the frustration and confusion caused. So, the total 
compensation to be paid for this complaint should be £500.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman