DRN-3038819
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. This was an almost new 
car and had only completed 4 miles at the point of supply. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. The oil pan gasket leak was first repaired on this car 
about three and a half months after supply. At that point the car had only travelled about 
1,232 miles and in the absence of evidence to the contrary I think its likely the oil leak had 
been present or developing from the beginning.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present 
at the point of supply. After that they should allow rejection of the car. Mr E took the car back 
to the dealership on 28 March 2019 and a further repair to resolve the same problem was 
completed. At that point hed travelled about a further 4,000 miles. Whilst there was a delay 
of about eighteen months before Mr E complained about a recurrence of the leak I dont 
think thats unusual for an oil leak. I think its reasonable to suggest that a repair may at first 
appear satisfactory and the breach of the gasket may take some time to become obvious. 
So, I think BMWFS have been unreasonable when refusing to allow Mr E to reject the car.  
Putting things right
When a car is rejected wed usually ask a business to end the finance agreement, take the 
car back and refund any deposit that has been paid. Wed suggest they retain some or all of 
the finance instalments depending on the use the consumer had from the car and wed 
consider if the consumer should be compensated for any distress and/or inconvenience. 
The term of Mr Es contract has come to an end whilst hes been waiting for a resolution. In 
those circumstances he had the option to return the car or pay the final optional payment 
and take ownership of it. Mr E decided to purchase the car and hes explained that he did 
that on the advice of Trading Standards. I can see the settlement was accompanied by a 
note from Mr E explaining he was paying under protest. So, I dont think that by taking 
ownership of the car Mr E was accepting it was of a satisfactory standard. It seems he 
wasnt, and I can understand he may have wanted to retain ownership of the car in case any 
further investigations were necessary.
The fact that the contract has come to an end does not negate BMWFSs responsibility for 
the cars quality. They say that as the car isnt theirs anymore they cant be sure of its 
condition. But I dont think much will have been likely to change in the last few months and I 
dont think the change of ownership is likely to have had an impact on the cars condition. In 
fact, I think its more likely Mr E would look after a car he owned than a car he didnt.
So, BMWFS should take the car back but in this case theyll need to buy the car back as    
Mr E now owns it.  The purchase price should reflect the repayment of the deposit Mr E paid 
of £18,000 and a refund of the final payment he made to take ownership of the car of 
£21,586. But to reflect the use Mr E has had from the car since he took ownership of it 
BMWFS can reduce the refund of the final payment by £236.43 (the agreements monthly 
instalment amount) for every full month Mr E has owned the car until this complaint is 
settled, or until one month after the date of this decision (whichever comes soonest).
I dont think the oil leak stopped Mr E driving the car and he was kept mobile with a courtesy 
vehicle when the car was being repaired. So, Im not asking BMWFS to refund any finance 
instalments in respect of loss of use.
But its clear Mr E has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to return the car to 
the garage on occasions and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think BMWFS should pay him 
£150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
buy the car back from Mr E for £39,586 (the sum of Mr Es deposit and the final 
payment he made). BMWFS can reduce this figure by £236.43 for every full month Mr E has owned the car until this complaint is settled, or until one month after the 
date of this decision (whichever comes soonest).
collect the car at no cost to Mr E;
pay Mr E £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Es credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman