DRN-1747384
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy with the compensation Santander Cards UK Limited (Santander) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a store card account. 
What happened
Ms I opened her store card account in November 2007 and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy associated with the account. The first premium for the PPI was charged to the account 
in December 2007 and the final one charged in October 2009.
Ms I has complained the PPI was mis-sold. Santander has agreed to uphold the complaint 
and offered to pay Ms I compensation of £147.34 after tax. 
Ms I is not happy with the amount of compensation offered as she says it should be more 
and she doesnt think Santander has fully investigated her complaint.
Ms I brought her complaint to this service and our adjudicator said what Santander had 
offered was fair. 
Ms I remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold Ms Is complaint the PPI was mis-sold and pay 
compensation. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether the compensation offered is fair. I think it is and I shall explain why.
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI a business should work out what 
was charged for the PPI in premiums and any card rate interest caused by those premiums 
being added to the account balance. The business also has to pay some compensatory 
interest at the rate of 8% simple each year on any amounts the consumer was out of pocket 
for the PPI costs. 
That is what Santander has done in this case. 
Santander has the full data records for the account from when it was opened in November 
2007. So it knows exactly what was charged to the account each month for the PPI premium 
and can work out how much of the interest each month was caused by the PPI premiums. 
I can see from the calculation and information provided that Santander has used the actual 
premiums charged of £87.30 and calculated the interest in total caused by these premiums 
was £1.63. The total interest ever charged to the account was £86.99 and the account was 
open after the PPI was cancelled. I can see from the way Ms I used the account she spent on it regularly but also paid off large amounts each month as well. So there was not a great 
deal of interest caused.
I am satisfied that Santander has used the accurate data to calculate the costs of the PPI 
that Miss I paid. In addition Santander has calculated that Miss S should get £73.01 in 
compensatory interest, which is reduced to £58.41 after income tax is taken off as required 
by HM Customs and Excise. So the total offered after tax is £147.34.
Although Ms I thinks she is due more compensation, she hasnt provided any evidence or 
information to indicate why she feels this is the case.  Based on all the evidence I have seen, 
I think what Santander has worked out as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that Santander Cards UK PLC has offered to Ms I to settle her complaint is fair. So I am 
not upholding the complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman