DRN-3196479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Openwork Limited. Theyre unhappy with the service theyve 
received from their adviser and think he hasnt provided them with the ongoing advice they 
were due.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were clients of an adviser who was an appointed representative of Openwork. 
In 2017 they reduced the level of service they were receiving from the adviser in return for a 
reduced fee. 
They complained to Openwork in 2020 and said, in summary, that the adviser hadnt 
provided them with the ongoing advice they were promised which had resulted in missed 
opportunities to switch their holdings to better performing funds. 
Openwork looked into their concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary, 
that in 2017 Mr and Mrs B had moved from the advisers Wealth Management Service to 
his Report Only Service. This change meant that they paid lower fees, but also had the 
impact of reducing the level of service they were receiving. It meant that they would no 
longer receive annual reviews, which was the only time the adviser would have assessed 
their circumstances and made a recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept Openworks findings and brought the complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator thought about the 
points Mr and Mrs B had raised but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He believed 
they had received the level of service theyd paid for, so Openwork didnt need to take any 
further action. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with his opinion. They thought that the central element of their 
complaint - that they were paying for a financial service that they didnt receive - hadnt been 
addressed. Theyd received written terms which promised high quality specialist advice in a 
particular area of our financial planning and one that would also service existing 
arrangements, including providing ongoing advice. The only area theyd brought to the 
adviser as an area of concern was their ISAs, but no advice was offered.
The adviser had acknowledged in a review meeting that their ISAs were not performing as 
expected. Hed promised to review them six months later but at no point was any advice 
offered, despite later admitting that hed withheld information about a better performing fund 
that hed offered to others in their position. The difference in performance was 8.67% and 
had deprived them of a significant opportunity to maximise their investment. His reason for 
withholding the information was that their level of service didnt attract ongoing advice but 
two years earlier hed promised  in writing  just that.
The investigator didnt change his opinion, and as theres been no agreement, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mrs B, 
Im not going to uphold this complaint and I will now explain why. As Mr and Mrs B have 
pointed out, the crux of this complaint is whether or not they received they service that they 
were promised when they moved to the Report Only Service. 
With that in mind, Ive considered the Client Proposition Document that Mr and Mrs B were 
provided with in 2013 that set out the terms of the different levels of service the adviser 
offered. At the time the adviser said, I asked that you keep any paper copies I gave you in a 
safe place as it's important you understand these both now and in the future.
The document shows that the adviser offered three tiers of service - Wealth Management, 
Report Only and Ad-Hoc Services. Mr and Mrs B were originally signed up to the Wealth 
Management service but then moved to the Report Only service. 
The Report Only Service had charges of 0.62% and, in summary, was described as being 
ideal for customers looking for specialist advice who wished to take control of their financial 
planning. It had the following key features:
A Financial Planning report or summary, as appropriate, including portfolio updates 
and valuations on an annual basis
Specialist financial analysis and reporting
Access to an investment platform, with the ability to view portfolio and contractual 
documents online and use of the investment platform via your adviser
Access to your adviser to discuss further areas of your financial planning
Full access to Practice staff 
Complimentary financial review for one family member
Client record keeping and file maintenance, for example: Policy surrenders or partial 
surrenders, Administration such as changes of address, Replacement and copy 
documents
The Wealth Management Service had charges of 1.12% and was described, in summary, as 
being ideal for customers who were looking for their adviser to provide regular feedback on 
their investments and ensure that the strategy matched their requirements. And who 
required an ongoing review process where their adviser would proactively introduce new 
ideas and opportunities. 
It had the all the features on the Report Only Service and also:
An annual review where there would be a discussion of objectives and goals, attitude 
to risk, change in circumstances, market updates and performance of current 
investments, any impacts on your financial planning, Any changes to your 
investment(s) required as a result of the review were also included.
Portfolio review and rebalancing in line with your attitude to risk and investment objectives 
Consultation with your other professional advisers at your request i.e. 
solicitor/accountant 
Trustee & Executor briefing service
Client Newsletter on a quarterly basis 
Economic and market updates 
Unlimited telephone support 
Mr and Mrs B have said that their understanding was that when they agreed the fee 
reduction with their adviser, only the annual review would be removed. Theyve said they 
consciously moved to the Report Only service as they felt its description in the Client 
Proposition Document - specialist advice in a particular area - was right for them as 
opposed to wealth management services across their entire portfolios. And while they 
understood theyd have to pay for new services, they thought some of the terms of business 
were open to interpretation. 
Theyd sought clarification from the adviser, and he told them he would be always available 
to speak as and when you need me and he would still service your existing arrangements, 
including providing ongoing advice. Any new business, involving significant work, would 
involve further initial fees on an ad hoc basis. Its not much different to our current 
arrangement, expect (sic) that I am removing the annual review after this year. 
I think that there were clearly going to be changes in the level of service Mr and Mrs B were 
receiving from the adviser, given the reduction in fees. And having considered the two 
different levels of service, I think here was a clear distinction between them. The Wealth 
Management Service was the only service that included a portfolio review and rebalancing 
service, in addition to annual reviews where changes could be made. The Report Only 
Service had no facility in place for an annual review or a portfolio review and rebalance, it 
only provided access to an adviser when needed. 
Ive also thought about the advisers email, and I dont think it should be taken in isolation to 
define the level of service that would be provided. The service proposition gave a broader 
definition of the level of service that would be provided. Having considered the terms, I dont 
think there was a requirement for the adviser to proactively contact Mr and Mrs B about 
switching investments.
I also dont think that the adviser gave any assurances that he would proactively contact Mr 
and Mrs B about their existing holdings. I think that the emphasis was on Mr and Mrs B to 
contact the adviser, given what he said being available as and when he was needed. And 
from what Ive seen, the adviser made himself available to Mr and Mrs B when required. 
While he didnt proactively contact them to discuss moving to a better performing fund, as 
they said he did with some of his other clients - I dont think he was required to under the 
terms of the agreement with Mr and Mrs B and therefore I dont think I can fairly say hes 
done anything wrong. 
Ive also thought about if the adviser should have recommended moving funds when Mr and 
Mrs B had a review in 2018 and 2019. I can see that the adviser discussed their existing 
holdings during the November 2018 review. At the time it was noted that there were 
concerns about the performance of their investments over the preceding 12-18 months. The 
adviser gave some commentary on the underlying holdings, and it was decided that the investments would be reviewed in six months time. 
The adviser then had an email exchange with Mr B in March and April 2019. He noted that 
the performance of the investments had improved since the November review. Mr B said, in 
summary, that things had stabilised slightly, but hed still like to speak about the investments 
in addition to a further sum of money that Mrs B wanted to invest. The adviser acknowledged 
Mr Bs comments and said hed be happy to speak at any point about the existing 
arrangements. 
There were further emails in the exchange but there was no mention of existing investments, 
the discussion centred around what the plans were for the new investment. The adviser then 
met with Mrs B, but the notes show that only the new investment was discussed. The 
original holdings werent discussed until 2020 when Mr and Mrs B again raised the matter of 
their performance.
I think that given the advisers previous conversation with Mr and Mrs B, it was down to them 
to bring up the matter with the adviser if they wanted to take it forward. The adviser had 
invited them to discuss their existing arrangements, but they didnt bring it up with him until 
2020. As Ive previously noted, the nature of their relationship meant that there was no 
requirement for the adviser to proactively contact them, so having considered everything I 
dont think hes done anything wrong and I wont be asking him to do anything to resolve the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman