DRN-2727454
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. Miss W 
had said she was cold by St Pauls Marketing about reviewing her pension. She said she was 
called numerous times and in order to stop the calls she agreed to have a review.
Miss W said an adviser reviewed her pension and explained that by moving it she would get 
better returns with no investment risk. Miss W agreed to transfer and approximately £18,150 
was transferred to the SIPP in November 2016. Of this £17,343 was subsequently 
transferred to a stockbroking account and invested in Just Loan debentures.
Miss W, through her representative, complained to Alexander David in January 2019. I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files 
or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that the evidence showed Miss W had conversations with St Pauls 
Marketing about her investments and, given her background, he thought it unlikely she 
would have sought out this type of investment of her own volition. He noted the letter from St 
Pauls Marketing dated 28 September 2016 offered her a free pension review, and within the 
same letter it promoted the debenture offering a fixed return of 8.25%.
The investigator thought St Pauls Marketing had provided information to Miss W about her 
existing pensions, discussed their performance and compared them with the debentures. He 
noted that the letter was personally addressed to Miss W and he thought as a lay investor 
Miss W would have understood she was being advised to invest in the Just Loans 
debentures. The investigator said he thought St Pauls Marketing had personally 
recommended Miss W to transfer. He didnt think someone in Miss Ws position would act on 
an execution only basis. He said, having spoken to Miss W, he thought it unlikely Miss W 
would have been clear about that concept. 
The investigator noted the pension was Miss Ws only pension. She was in her late 40s, her 
income was about £5,500 a year and she didnt have the capacity to take high risks. The 
investor didnt think investing in a bond from a single issuer was appropriate given Miss Ws 
circumstances and lack of investment experience. 
The investigator said St Pauls Marketing was involved in arranging the switching of the 
pension. He referred to COBS 10.2.1 which obliged the firm to assess the appropriateness 
of the investment for Miss W. He considered St Pauls Marketing had failed to carry out such 
an assessment, instead encouraging Miss W to transfer her pension.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However, it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator wrote to both parties on 9 July 2020 explaining that the 
complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a final decision. No 
further evidence or arguments were provided.
The investigator noted that when the debenture matured in December 2018 Miss W had 
decided to reinvest the proceeds from it in new debentures in January 2019. The investigator 
wrote to both parties on 9 March 2021 saying that in light of this he thought compensation 
should be calculated slightly differently to what hed proposed in his original 
assessment. He set out how he thought it should be calculated. No further evidence or 
arguments were received from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Miss Ws original complaint or to the investigators 
requests for information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to 
the investigators assessment. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish 
what happened at the time of the transfer and investment. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Miss W transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Miss Ws 
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this 
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator thought St Pauls Marketing had made a personal recommendation to Miss 
W. And he didnt think that Miss W had the background and knowledge to have arranged the 
transfer and invested in these investments herself. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the 
circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think its more 
likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise Miss W to transfer and invest in the 
debentures. And given the significant risks presented by the investment, I dont think it was 
suitable for Miss W in her circumstances.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Miss W I think the evidence shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in 
arranging the investment. 
The debentures were a non-readily realisable security. COBS 10 required St Pauls 
Marketing to assess Miss Ws knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess whether the 
debentures were appropriate for her.
The investigator said Miss W had no experience of making investments of this nature and 
Alexander David hasnt disputed this. Ive seen no evidence of Miss W having a history of 
making this type of investment. The debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent 
appropriate for Miss W given her background, knowledge and experience, and this should 
have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the 
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Miss W. Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing 
hadnt advised Miss W to transfer and invest in the debentures or if it had told her they 
werent suitable or appropriate for her, she wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Miss W to transfer and 
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Miss W has claimed.
Putting things right
fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss W as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. Miss Ws 
existing pension was invested in funds that provided a greater degree of risk than Miss W 
has indicated she was willing to take or were suitable for her circumstances. I think with 
suitable advice Miss W would have remained in her existing pension plan, but switched to an 
appropriate fund. So I think Miss W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Miss Ws circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should Alexander David Securities Ltd do? 
To compensate Miss W fairly Alexander David Securities Ltd should compare the 
performance of Miss Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Miss Ws pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Miss Ws pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Miss Ws actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age. 
I think Miss W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss W would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment  - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Miss Ws 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should: 
Pay Miss W £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Miss W in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss W how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss 
W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider on transfer would have been 
worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.Why is this remedy suitable? 
Miss Ws circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for 
risk. I dont think Miss W would have transferred with suitable advice. But she was invested 
in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than she had the capacity to accept. So I think 
its likely she would have switched to lower risk funds if suitable advice had been given. I 
dont know exactly how she would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Miss W 
was able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only able to 
take a limited level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss W into that position. It doesnt mean that Miss W would have 
invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider this is a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Miss W could have obtained 
from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 25 January 2019; 
the date that Miss W decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Miss W had made her decision to reinvest her money having raised concerns about 
the suitability of the original advice to invest at the same time. In the circumstances I dont 
think Alexander David is responsible for any losses arising from the re-investment. 
And although Miss W may have suffered a degree of distress when the complaint was made 
and the return provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would have been limited given 
she agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in December 2018. So I think 
£100 is fair in the particular circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Miss W as 
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman