DRN-3042632
The complaint
Ms P complains that the lending made to her by Vanquis Bank Limited was always
unaffordable for her. And she said that when she got into difficulties with her payments,
Vanquis didnt help.
 
What happened
Ms P said she only earned about £800 a month when she took out this card in 2017, so she
thought that the lending Vanquis agreed was never affordable for her. She said shed only
made the minimum payment for about three years. Then the card ended up over its limit.
Ms P said that she asked Vanquis to help, and sent it a lot of personal information, but it
refused to set up a payment plan for her by text message. Vanquis said it had to talk to her.
Ms P said that caused considerable delay, and meant that she ended up paying more in
interest. She said that Vanquis did eventually set up the payment plan, and did this via text.
Vanquis didnt think it had done anything wrong. It set out what it could see when Ms P took
out her card, and details of what showed on her credit file each time it had increased her
credit limit. It said that there were no signs of financial difficulty until August 2020, when a
payment was missed. And it sent us the text conversation it had with Ms P, when she first
asked it to set up a payment plan for her.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied that
the checks Vanquis did when Ms P applied for the card and before each credit limit increase
were reasonable. Based on the information the business reviewed, our investigator thought
its decision to lend to Ms P was responsible.
Our investigator said that Ms P had asked Vanquis to set up a payment plan for her in mid-
November 2020. She asked to make a monthly repayment of £50. Vanquis replied asking
her to call customer services to set up the repayment plan. Our investigator didnt think
Vanquis made a mistake, by asking her to call. She had set up a plan in January 2021.
Ms P didnt agree. She wrote to our service a number of times, and sent further evidence.
Ms P wanted us to consider Vanquis told her in November 2020 it couldnt set up a payment 
plan without speaking to her. But later, it did just that. If it had set up this plan when she 
asked, she wouldve paid much less interest. So she thought it should pay this money back.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said it wasnt unreasonable for Vanquis to want
to talk to Ms P, to make sure the plan it was setting up was suitable for her. She still didnt
think Vanquis had done anything wrong. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Ms P took out her card in 2017. Her first statement, from July 2017, shows that most 
of the spending was essential spending (travel costs, household bills, groceries) and 
almost a quarter of her spending was cash advances.
Her second statement from August 2017 shows that the overwhelming majority of her
spending that month was cash advances.
Most of the spending on her third statement, September, was a single household bill. 
Ms P made little use of the card on the October statement. In November, her only 
spending was a large cash advance.
Her December 2017 statement shows that her credit limit had doubled.
The Lending Standards Board issues guidance for credit card companies on 
unsolicited credit limit increases. That sets out a number of risk indicators which a 
credit card company should have regard to. Two of those risk indicators were, in my 
view, present here.
Although Ms P was making her repayments, and she was paying over the minimum, 
the amount she was paying was only just over the minimum. And most worryingly, 
Ms P was making very frequent use of cash advances. Well over half of her spending 
at this point had been cash advances.
It is recognised that cash advances on a credit card are a very high cost form of 
lending, and can be indicative of financial difficulties. And in my experience, this level 
of cash advances on a card is very unusual.
At this point, Vanquis doubled Ms Ps credit limit, on the basis of a credit check, and 
her usage of a card she had held for only about six months. Ive explained that this 
card usage, was, in my view, strongly indicative of risk factors for financial difficulties. 
So I dont think that this unsolicited limit increase should have been made.
Ms P incurred a late payment charge on her December statement, and again most of 
her spending was cash advances. But then Ms Ps usage of her card slowed, and 
stopped. She was continuing to make payments onto the account, and the balance 
started to reduce.
That means that we know this credit limit increase which Vanquis made in December 
2017 wasnt, in the end, unaffordable for Ms P. But I have to look at the decision 
Vanquis made at the time, before this happened. And Ive identified warning signs of 
financial difficulty which I think still mean that increase should not have been made.
Vanquis made a second increase to Ms Ps credit limit in May 2018, to £3,000.
I think that it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to make the increase that it 
had actually made in December 2017, at this point, and change Ms Ps credit limit to 
£2,000. I do not think that it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to increase Ms 
Ps limit then, in one step, from £1,000 to £3,000. (I know that Vanquis didnt do 
either of these things, but this has implications for what I think Vanquis should do to 
put things right, which Ill explain below.)
Ms P then continued to pay off the card, without using it.Vanquis made a third increase to Ms Ps credit limit in October 2018, to £3,500.
Again, I think that it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to make the increase 
that it had actually made in May 2018, at this point, and change Ms Ps credit limit to 
£3,000. I do not think that it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to increase Ms 
Ps limit in one step from £2,000 to £3,500. (And again, I know that Vanquis didnt do 
either of these things, but this has implications for what I think Vanquis should do to 
put things right, which Ill explain below.)
Because I think that Vanquis made a mistake when it first increased Ms Ps credit 
limit, from £1,000 to £2,000, I think it should refund any interest that it charged Ms P 
for a balance above £1,000 between then, and the next credit limit increase in May 
2018.
Because I think Vanquis could reasonably have made a smaller increase in May 
2018, I think Vanquis would have had to refund any interest that it charged Ms P for a 
balance above £2,000 between then, and the next credit limit increase in October 
2018. But I can see that Ms Ps balance stayed below £2,000 during this time.
Finally, because I again think that Vanquis could reasonably have made a smaller 
increase in October 2018, I think Vanquis should then refund any interest that it 
charged Ms P for a balance above £3,000 after October 2018.
Vanquis should use this refund to reduce Ms Ps debt to it. I dont expect there will be 
any money left over after that, but if there is, Vanquis should pay this to Ms P.
Ms P also complained that Vanquis wouldnt put a payment plan on her account, 
without speaking to her, in November 2020. But she said that it then did just that, in 
January 2021.
Ive considered the chains of text messages that both Ms P and Vanquis have shown 
us. And it looks to me as if in November 2020, Vanquis said to Ms P that it wanted to 
talk to her, rather than simply put a plan in place. I do think thats a reasonable thing 
for Vanquis to say. It would want to be sure that Ms P could make any payments that 
it agreed to take from her, and its usual for a business to go through someones 
income and expenditure to check this, in much more detail than the information I can 
see Ms P had given to Vanquis already.
I can see Ms P said it would be difficult for her to call, and Vanquis replied, setting 
out the times it was open, and when she could call. Ive looked carefully at the text 
messages Ms P sent to us, and I cant see Ms P replied to this. So, whilst I 
understand Ms P didnt want to call, I dont think that shed told Vanquis this at the 
time. And she hasnt explained to our service why it wasnt possible for her to call.
Ms P then complained that a payment plan wasnt set up, and at this point Vanquis 
put a plan in place for her, communicating by text message. Ms P says that this 
shows Vanquis could always have done this.
But this isnt what I would expect Vanquis to do, in this sort of situation. I dont think it 
can be entirely sure, from the text conversations it has had with Ms P, that the 
current arrangement is the best option for her.
I make no criticism of Vanquis here, for putting a plan in place for Ms P in January by 
text. I think its done its best to help Ms P, and to work with what she is prepared to do. But I would normally expect it to explore her situation in more detail, before 
putting an arrangement in place. And thats why I dont think that Vanquis made a 
mistake by not simply putting in place the plan Ms P said she wanted, in November, 
but asking her to call instead.
I dont think this part of Ms Ps complaint should be upheld.
Ms P told shes faced difficulties with her payments since this plan started. Our 
service isnt allowed to look at complaints before the business has had a chance to 
respond to them, so our investigator asked Ms P to raise this with Vanquis first.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P replied to say she was happy with the outcome. Vanquis also said it was happy to 
accept this decision, and had nothing to add. Ms P then asked what would happen about 
interest that Vanquis had charged since my provisional decision. She repeated that she was 
still having difficulties with her payments, and added interest was impacting her credit file. 
The refunds of interest Im requiring Vanquis to make will also cover the period between my 
provisional and final decisions. I do understand that Ms P is still finding her interactions with 
Vanquis frustrating, but Ive explained that we cant add these issues into her current 
complaint, because Vanquis hasnt had a chance to respond to those yet. Ms P would have 
to raise her concerns with Vanquis first.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must refund onto Ms Ps card any
interest that it charged Ms P 
for a balance above £1,000 between the credit limit increase showing on her 
December 2017 statement, and the next credit limit increase in May 2018.
for a balance above £2,000 between the credit limit increase showing on her 
May 2018 statement, and the next credit limit increase in October 2018.
for a balance above £3,000 after the credit limit increase showing on her 
October 2018 statement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman