DRN-3134911
The complaint
In summary, Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc wouldnt let her withdraw a 
large sum of money from her account. She thinks it discriminated against her because of her 
age. 
What happened
In 2020 Mrs B tried to withdraw a substantial sum from her savings account at her local 
branch. 
In 2021 Mrs B complained to Barclays. In its response it explained why it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. 
Mrs Bs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She explained that Barclays 
had a record of an incident at Mrs Bs local branch in 2020. And she went on to explain to 
Mrs B why she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in not allowing her to withdraw 
a large sum of cash.
Mrs B wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so the case has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she thinks Barclays has discriminated against her given the problems shes 
experienced. I can understand why Mrs B feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think Barclays has done so. Nor do I think Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Ive set out my reasoning for saying this below. I hope that it helps Mrs B to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her concerns.
Its clear to me from what Ive seen that Mrs B has had a very difficult time over the last few 
years. And Im very sorry for her losses. I also understand that given what happened to her, 
she has found this incident and the difficulties in accessing her money to be frustrating and 
upsetting.
However, I need to decide if in relation to the difficulties Mrs B had in trying to withdraw cash 
from her account, these were as a result of anything Barclays did wrong.
Mrs Bs primary concern that she raised with this service and Barclays, appears to be in 
relation to a significant amount of money she wanted to withdraw from her savings account 
with it. The amount of cash Mrs B she wanted to withdraw was a very large five figure sum of 
money. I think Mrs Bs request would have raised some practical and security issues for 
Barclays.
From a practical point of view, I believe its highly unlikely the branch of Barclays Mrs B 
visited, would have had a sufficient sum of money in branch to accommodate her request. In 
my experience, a request for the amount of cash Mrs B wanted to withdraw would normally 
have to be made in advance, so that sufficient cash could be ordered in. 
There is also the security aspect to Mrs Bs request. Barclays terms and conditions allow it to 
not follow a customers instruction in a number of circumstances. These include:
We reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, scam 
or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the funds are being 
obtained through deception...
While we are checking that none of the reasons above apply, there may be a delay in getting 
the payment to its destination. This might happen even if everything turns out to be fine.
We may apply financial and other limits to your instructions. For example, we may set limits 
for contactless payments. Well tell you what these limits are and may change them from 
time to time. 
We also apply internal controls, including limits, to some kinds of payment. For security 
reasons, we change these and dont always say what they are. We may refuse your 
instruction if its above one of these limits.
I think that given the size of the cash withdrawal Mrs B was wanting to make, it is very 
plausible that Barclays was concerned she might have been a potential victim of fraud. And I 
think a request to withdraw a cash amount of the size Mrs B was wanting to withdraw, could 
well have exceeded Barclay internal limits. 
Unfortunately scams against banks customers have become increasingly frequent in recent 
years. This means that banks such as Barclays are aware of scams and are constantly on 
the lookout for them. There are protocols they need to apply in these types of situation. And 
they wont necessarily be able rely on the answers provided to them by a customer such as 
Mrs B, as there is always the possibility that a customer might be under the control of a 
fraudster.  As a result, Barclays will in certain circumstances need to pause on a customer 
instruction whilst it makes further enquiries. 
So, I think given the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs request, it wasnt unreasonable for 
Barclays not to have processed her withdrawal.
I do understand Mrs B strongly believes that her request wasnt actioned because of her 
age. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont agree that it was. And I dont think there is 
enough evidence which supports her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman