DRN-2743860
The complaint
Mr D complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd reported the wrong information about a 
settled debt on his credit file with the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
On 21 February 2020, Mr D contacted Lantern to settle a debt he had with them. He paid the 
relevant amount and was told by Lantern the debt was settled. In the confirmation email 
Mr D received he said the CRAs would be told the account had been settled within 30 days.
After the 30 days was up Mr D checked his account with one of the CRAs, who Ill call Z, and 
it still showed the account outstanding. Mr D contacted Lantern on several occasions before 
getting a reply  and they asked him to send a screenshot of the account he was contacting 
them about. Mr D did this on 22 April 2020, and then on 22 May 2020 Lantern got back in 
touch asking for a copy of his credit file and a screenshot showing the account, and then 
theyd able to look into it. 
Mr D asked why theyd actually need this, and then on 16 June 2020 Lantern replied to the 
complaint hed raised during these exchanges.
In it, Lantern said theyd updated the CRAs on 3 March 2020 with a balance on the account 
of £0.00, and showing it as partially settled. Lantern said theyd checked their reporting for 
April and May also, which confirmed theyd not reported the accounts in those months either. 
Lantern added it can take up to 30 to 45 days to update on Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. He explained the account 
wasnt actually removed until 17 May 2020  nearly 12 weeks after hed first got in touch with 
Lantern about the issue. He said hed spent a lot of time chasing Lantern up, and also 
speaking to Z about it. 
In November 2020 one of our investigators started looking into things. She got in touch with 
Mr D, and he emphasised Lantern hadnt been communicating with Z about this issue. He 
provided a screenshot of a message dated 28 April 2020 Z sent to Mr D saying Lantern 
hadnt replied to them.
Lantern got in touch with our investigator shortly afterwards and explained there was an 
issue  but it was with Z. Lantern said a number of their accounts with Z hadnt been 
reported properly, and Z asked Lantern to share this information with Mr D so he knew 
whatd happened. This was also in November 2020, and Z explained all the accounts would 
be fully updated by the end of the month. 
Mr D said he found it hard to believe Z were responsible for the issues. He felt Lantern had 
probably written the letter themselves, and why did it take from March to November 2020 to 
realise Z werent reporting Lanterns accounts properly. Mr D also got a response from Z 
which said Lantern hadnt updated the account since February 2020, and there were no 
problems with their systems.
Lantern provided a further update to our investigator, and explained theyd updated Mr Ds 
account properly in March. After receiving a spike in queries theyd been speaking to Zs 
senior team, whereas Mr D was contacting their customer service team. Lantern said they 
couldnt be held responsible for how Z chose to share information within their own 
organisation. 
Our investigator considered everything and was satisfied overall Lantern hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mr D didnt accept this. He said hed had lots of evidence from Z showing the problem was 
with Lantern. So, he questioned the authenticity of the information provided by Lantern to our 
service. He added hed got back in touch with Z, who confirmed to him there were no issues 
and Lantern hadnt updated his credit file for nine months. Mr D said he was also 
disappointed our investigator didnt speak to Z directly to confirm things. 
Our investigator explained shed seen evidence Lantern had been speaking to Z, and Z had 
confirmed theyd had issues their end. So, she still didnt think Lantern had done anything 
wrong. And, she said shed not spoken to Z as she was satisfied with the information 
provided.
Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
Before deciding Mr Ds case, I asked our investigator to get in touch with Z directly. I can see 
why our investigator was happy to rely on the information provided by Lantern, and I dont 
think she was wrong to do so. But I can see Mr Ds strength of feeling and his concerns  so 
I felt itd be best to get their thoughts as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D understands that I can only decide this complaint against Lantern, and I cant 
make any findings about whether Z have or havent made errors. 
With that in mind, the key question is whether Lantern are responsible for the issues Mr D 
has mentioned. For reasons Ill go on to explain, Im satisfied theyre not responsible for 
them.
Mr Ds issues started when he expected his credit file to have updated towards the end of 
March 2020, but it didnt. It does look as though it took Lantern a little longer than Id usually 
expect to reply to him  and when they did, they didnt get the information they needed back 
from him.
The information Mr D provided initially wasnt enough information to allow Lantern to 
investigate the issue  but at the same time I dont think they asked Mr D a clear question. 
So, I think this is just unfortunate rather than being Mr Ds responsibility. 
Ive seen information showing Lantern did send through an update on Mr Ds account to the 
credit reference agencies  reporting the account balance as £0.00, and partially settled  as 
they told Mr D theyd done. This was in March 2020.
From what I understand the account was ultimately removed from Mr Ds credit file in 
May 2020  the information I have shows this was because, at this time, the issue around 
the reporting had been discovered. I do think at times Lanterns communication could have been better. But all the information 
Ive seen show Lantern werent the reason for the delay in his account being updated on his 
credit file.
As Ive set out above, I cant make any findings on Zs actions  what I can say is having 
asked for independent clarification from Z, Im satisfied Lantern have provided accurate 
information about why Mr Ds credit file wasnt updated as quickly as hed expected. So, I 
dont think Lantern is responsible for the delay, and wont be awarding any compensation to 
Mr D for Lanterns actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman