DRN-2859898
The complaint
Mr B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their decision to 
classify him as in persistent debt while suspending his card because of this.
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with Barclays for several years. In late 2018, following an 
update to guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Barclays contacted Mr 
B to make him aware the way he was managing his account suggested he was in persistent 
debt. Mr B was unhappy about this and complaint to Barclays, who issued their response in 
October 2018 explaining they were following the FCA guidance.
In late 2019, Mr B received further correspondence from Barclays regarding to him being in 
persistent debt. Particularly, Mr B received a text saying hed been sent a letter which he felt 
hed asked Barclays not to do, due to security issues with receiving post at his home 
address. Barclays provided two responses to this complaint, in February and March 2020. 
And in both of these, Barclays felt theyd classified Mr Bs account fairly. But they agreed 
they had sent Mr B letters incorrectly and they offered Mr B a total of £50 to recognise any 
upset this caused.
In August 2020, Barclays then wrote to Mr B explaining he remained in persistent debt and 
set out the options available to him to repay the credit card balance. And within this letter, 
they explained Mr Bs card would be suspended if he didnt respond by the end of October. 
Mr B complained about this in September as he didnt think he should be classified as in 
persistent debt and should be allowed to manage his account as he wished. He explained he 
was able to repay the balance on the card if he wished to do so but didnt think Barclays 
were fair when forcing him to do so. Because of this, Mr B didnt select a repayment option. 
So, his card was suspended. Barclays didnt respond within the eight-week time period they 
were afforded, so Mr B referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They first explained we were 
unable to look at any of the issues Mr B complained about in late 2018 and 2019, as Mr B 
hadnt referred his complaints to us within six months of Barclays final response letter. So, 
they explained these complaints fell outside of our time limits. 
They explained they were able to consider Barclays decision to suspend Mr Bs card and 
having done so, they thought Barclays had acted in line with FCA guidance. So, they didnt 
think Barclays had acted unfairly or needed to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree and he raised several points explaining why. Mr B didnt think hed 
received Barclays final response letter in March 2020 so he didnt think it was fair to say the 
complaint points addressed within this couldnt be considered. Mr B maintained his view that 
he wasnt in persistent debt at the time and so, he didnt think our investigators assumption 
that he wouldve continued to repay more interest than capital balance was fair. Mr B also 
reiterated his belief that the £50 compensation Barclays paid him was to recognise their 
error when deeming him to be in persistent debt, not because of letters theyd sent him.
Mr B also raise comments about information provided to him in a call he held with Barclays, 
the length of time Barclays took to response to his complaint and continued issues he had 
regarding receiving letters to his home address. Finally, Mr B alleged that Barclays had 
committed fraud by attempting to force him into repaying larger amounts to his debt which he 
feels benefited them and caused a loss to him. 
Our investigator responded to the points Mr B raised they felt were the crux of his issues. 
And they explained that their view remained unchanged. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to set out exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mr B complained 
to Barclays about their decision to classify him as in persistent debt, and the letters they sent 
to him when they shouldve been aware of his postal issues, in late 2018 and 2019. I can 
see Barclays issued three final responses to Mr B about these issues with the last being sent 
on 12 March 2020. I cant see that Mr B contacted our service until 11 November 2020, 
almost seven months later.
Our service is only able to consider complaints that have been referred to us within six 
months from the date of the business final response. So, as Mr B didnt do so, I think any 
complaints considered in these responses fall outside of our time limits to consider. I 
recognise Mr B doesnt think this is fair and has made comments about the fact these 
responses were sent by letter and so, not received due to ongoing postal issues. But I can 
see these responses were also sent to Mr B by secured message online. And I can see they 
clearly explain the time frame Mr B had to refer his complaint to us. So, even if Mr B didnt 
receive the posted copy, Im satisfied he had access to Barclays final response. Because of 
this, my decision will focus solely on the suspension of Mr Bs credit card, an issue he raised 
in September 2020 which has been referred to our service with our time limits.
Im also aware Mr B is unhappy with how Barclays handled the complaints he raised. But 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction. 
Because of this, Im also unable to consider this as part of my decision.
And before I explain how Ive reached my decision; I want to recognise the impact this 
complaint has had on Mr B. I recognise Mr B is deemed as clinically extremely vulnerable 
due to ongoing medical treatment he is receiving. And I recognise how losing access to his 
credit card and its available limit wouldve been made even more stressful and upsetting 
because of this. I appreciate Mr B strongly denies being classified as in persistent debt and 
hes referred to his credit rating and income/savings available to him which he thinks 
disputes this. So, I can understand why Mr B has felt the need to complain about the actions 
Barclays have taken.
But for me to say Barclays should compensate Mr B, Id need to be satisfied theyd done 
something wrong. So, Id need to see evidence to show they failed to act within the FCA 
guidelines for accounts deemed to be in persistent debt. And if I think they did act within these guidelines, Id then need to be satisfied they acted unfairly by doing so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
In March 2018, the FCA introduced rules that were designed to assist customers who were 
found to be paying more interest and charges than what they were paying to their capital 
debt. If a customer was found to fall into this category, they were deemed to be in persistent 
debt. In this situation, the FCA stipulated that a business, in this case Barclays, should alert 
their customers if this trend continues for 18 months. And if nothing has changed in the 
following 18 months, then a card can be suspended to prevent a customer from falling into 
further debt.
Ive seen that between March 2017 and February 2020, Mr B paid a total of £1,494.00 to his 
credit card account. But £966.47 of this went towards interest and charges. So, over this 
period, I think Barclays were fair to deem Mr B as in persistent debt as he paid more towards 
interest and charges than the capital he owed.
Ive also seen from Barclays system notes that they wrote to Mr B on several occasions, in 
line with the FCA guidance, making Mr B aware he was deemed to be in persistent debt. As 
I can see Mr B complained about this on more than one occasion, Im satisfied he received 
the majority of this correspondence. And so, Im satisfied he was aware Barclays deemed 
him to be in this position. I recognise Mr B didnt agree with the fact Barclays deemed him to 
be in persistent debt but as Ive already explained, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when 
doing so and Im satisfied they acted within the FCA guidelines.
Ive seen in August 2020, Barclays wrote to Mr B again outlining the options available to him 
as hed failed to bring himself out of persistent debt. This letter made it clear the options Mr 
B had available to him and they all involved Mr B agreeing a repayment plan to clear the 
outstanding balance and suspending his card while this was done. And the letter also 
explained if an option wasnt selected, the card would be suspended automatically. This 
letter and the information within it falls in line with FCA guidance. 
Im satisfied Mr B received this letter as he complaint to Barclays about it. But I cant see he 
agreed to a repayment plan, so the card was suspended. So, I dont think I can say Barclays 
acted unfairly, as I think it was made clear to Mr B what would happen. 
While I recognise Mr B disputed Barclays decision to deem him to be in persistent debt, I 
think Mr B had been aware of this for some time and shouldve been aware he needed to 
increase his payments if he wanted to prevent further action. Mr B didnt do so. So, although 
I recognise Mr B feels he had the means to clear the balance if he wished to, I dont think the 
way he managed his account would cause Barclays to realise that. From the evidence 
Barclays had available, Mr B was paying less capital than interest and charges. So, by 
suspending the card, they were preventing Mr B from entering into further debt and I think 
they took this decision with Mr Bs best interests in mind. Because of this, I cant say 
Barclays have acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I recognise Mr B has asked why this wasnt done earlier but due to COVID-19, businesses 
such as Barclays were asked to treat customers with forbearance due to the impact of the 
pandemic. So, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by waiting until later into 2020 to complete 
the persistent debt process.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr B Ive 
considered all of the points hes raised, including his allegation of fraud. But I want to explain 
to Mr B that we do not consider allegations of fraud as this is a criminal matter that would 
need to be handled by the relevant authority. But even so, I dont think the actions Barclays 
have taken were intended to advantage them while place Mr B in a lesser position. Their decision to ask Mr B to pay increased monthly repayments was to ensure he was paying 
more off his capital than in interest in order to help him clear his debts in a timelier fashion. 
When Mr B didnt do so, Barclays prevented further spending on the card to again prevent 
Mr Bs debt being increased. As per the FCA guidelines, customers in this situation then 
need to arrange a repayment plan to clear the balance which isnt meant to be a punishment 
but an action plan to help improve Mr Bs financial situation. While Mr B disputes his financial 
situation needed improving, Barclays were only able to act upon Mr Bs management of that 
account and I think they did so fairly on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman