DRN-2747915
The complaint
Miss B complains TFS Loans Limited didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving her for two loans.  
What happened
Miss B was approved for two guarantor loans with TFS:
Loan Date of Loan Value 
of loanTerm of 
loanMonthly 
repaymentTotal repayable 
value
One 28 April 2016 £1,000 24 months £61 (approx.) £1,475 (approx.)
Two 28 April 2017 £6,000 60 months £235 (approx.) £14,073 (approx.)
In January 2020 Miss B complained to TFS. She said TFS had irresponsibly lend to her as 
she was in financial difficulties at the point of both loans; and had it completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks it would have known this. Miss B also says the monthly payments 
were extremely high and TFS offered top-up loans knowing she couldnt afford them. 
TFS issued its final response in March 2020. It didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint, so she 
brought it to our service for review. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Bs complaint and upheld it in part. He felt TFS hadnt 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving either loan. But he went 
on to say based on what TFS would likely have seen had it completed further checks, it had 
made a fair lending decision at loan one. But he said further checks at loan two ought to 
have shown TFS that Miss Bs disposable income wasnt enough to sustainably afford to 
repay this loan over its term; and therefore, it didnt make a fair lending decision at loan two. 
Miss B accepted the outcome. TFS agreed with the outcome for loan one but disagreed with 
the outcome for loan two. It said loan two was approved on a non-advised basis and Miss B 
had made an informed choice when deciding that the loan was suitable for her 
circumstances. It said the information it obtained when assessing Miss Bs application for 
loan two didnt suggest there were any signs of financial difficulties; and that it made a fair 
lending decision when approving loan two. 
As both Miss B and TFS accepted our investigators findings in relation to loan one, my 
decision here deals with the unresolved dispute about loan two.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Bs complaint. 
These are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss B to satisfy itself she 
was in a position to afford to repay loan two sustainably?
If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
If not, would those checks have shown Miss B would have been able to do so?
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss B to satisfy itself she was in 
a position to afford to repay loan two sustainably?
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Miss B. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Bs ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision.
TFS approved Miss B for loan two 12 months after loan one. The purpose of the loan as 
detailed on TFSs application form was largely to repay rent arrears and money owed to 
family. TFS has said it completed a number of checks before approving the loan to Miss B. It 
has said it obtained Miss Bs declaration of her income and expenses; as well as conducting 
a credit file check. It says based on the information it obtained it made a fair lending decision 
when approving loan two.
Ive carefully considered TFSs argument; but Im not persuaded it did complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks before approving loan two. I say this because I consider there 
were a number of factors evident to TFS that ought to have led to it concluding Miss B was 
not managing her finances well  and further checks were needed.
Miss B was significantly increasing her borrowing at loan two; and significantly increasing the 
term over which the loan was due to be repaid. Within a year Miss B was returning to TFS to 
borrow six times as much as she did at loan one; and more than doubling the term. On two 
separate occasions over the 12-month term of loan one, Miss B had been late in making 
payments. TFS questioned this as part of its review before approving loan two, but I dont 
think it should have been as accepting of Miss Bs reasons as it was. 
The purpose of loan two is largely detailed as repaying existing debt, on rent arrears and to 
family members. On the application form its detailed that £4,000 of the loan will be used to 
repay Miss Bs rent arrears. This is a significant amount of arrears towards a priority debt; 
and I consider it ought to have highlighted to TFS that Miss B was having problems 
managing her money. 
TFS needed to ensure it had a full understanding of Miss Bs financial circumstances before 
agreeing to lend; and I consider it should have verified her income and expenditure to satisfy itself she could sustainably afford to meet the repayments towards loan two over the full 
term. 
Would further checks have shown Miss B would have been able to meet any repayments 
towards loan two sustainably?
Miss B has provided her bank statements covering the months leading up to loan two. As I 
dont consider TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive used Miss Bs bank 
statements to get an understanding of what TFS would likely have identified, had it verified 
the information Miss B provided. 
Miss Bs bank statements show Miss B was not managing her money well. The main 
purpose of loan two is detailed as borrowing to repay existing arrears  to clear around 
£4,000 of rent arears and repay money owed to family.
The statements Miss B has provided show her income to be around £2,000, around the 
same level declared to TFS. Miss B declared her rent as £400 per month and I can see a 
regular payment to her landlord, as declared on her application, for £450 per month. There 
are also other bills on her statements including council tax, phone, TV and internet package, 
petrol, food and insurances. Miss B also has payments to a credit union in these months. 
I can see credits in from individuals across each of the months and payments back to these 
individuals  sometimes by standing order  once Miss B receives her income into her 
account. This further supports her testimony that she needed to borrow from family to meet 
her expenses and commitments. 
And in the months leading up to loan two Miss B is regularly in an overdrawn position close 
to  and in some instances  above her agreed limit. There is evidence of unauthorised 
overdraft fees and charges in each of the three months leading up to this loan; as well as 
unpaid fees. This strongly suggests to me Miss B was not in control of her finances and 
didnt have a level of income to cover her current commitments and expenses, let alone 
afford to repay payments towards this loan to TFS. 
By approving this loan TFS was increasing Miss Bs formal overall indebtedness and I 
consider it ought to have identified, had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, 
that Miss B wasnt managing her finances well and wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. 
As such, I dont consider TFS made a fair lending decision when approving loan two.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen anything to suggest TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way in 
its dealings with Miss B.  
Putting things right
To settle Miss Bs complaint TFS Loans Limited should do the following:
Refund all interest, fees and charges Miss B paid towards loan two and add 8% per 
annum simple interest from the date they arose to the date of settlement. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding loan two. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and direct it to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman