DRN-3111874
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund her a payment of 
£1,148.78 made from her account as the result of a scam.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms M was the unfortunate victim of a scam. She paid a company to set 
up a website and app for her via a third-party money transfer service. But the company failed 
to provide her with the website and app she had asked for. The company stopped 
responding to Ms Ms emails and at this point she realised she had been scammed and 
contacted Santander. 
Ms M says Santander were unhelpful and instructed her to contact the third-party money 
transfer service she had used rather than arranging a chargeback or attempting to recover 
her funds on her behalf and this went on up until January 2020.
Santander have said they arent able to find any evidence that Ms M contacted them about 
the scam in 2019. Regardless, they have taken her word that contact was made and that 
they made a mistake in not logging a complaint. Santander have offered to pay Ms M £60 
in compensation for this error. However, Santander have declined to uphold the rest of Ms 
Ms claim. Ms M authorised the payments herself and Santander have concluded that 
even if a claim was logged in 2019, a successful chargeback would not have been 
possible which is why she was directed elsewhere. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Ms M brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think it would be fair 
to ask Santander to offer Ms M a refund as she thought Santanders position in regard to the 
chargeback was reasonable  it was unlikely to have been successful. She went onto 
consider if there was anything Santander couldve done to prevent the scam before the 
payment left Ms Ms account. But she felt there wasnt anything about the payment itself that 
meant Santander shouldve questioned Ms M about it before it allowed it to leave her 
account. 
Ms M disagreed with the investigators opinion. As an agreement could not be reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Ive first thought about whether the payment Ms M made was out of character 
and unusual for her account, to the point that Santander shouldve discussed it 
with her before it allowed it to leave. But Im not persuaded that this was the 
case. Ms M had made similar payments in the months prior to the scam. And I 
also need to keep in mind that this not an untypical amount for consumers to 
transfer as part of their general spending practices. 
Im not persuaded that there was, on the face of it, anything inherently suspicious 
about this payment that shouldve put Santander on notice that Ms M might be at 
risk of falling victim to a scam.
 It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between 
processing payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring 
accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would 
be fair to say that Santander shouldve identified the payment Ms M made as 
suspicious enough to warrant further checks  especially given that it was for a 
relatively small amount.
 Ive also thought about whether Santander couldve done more to help Ms M once 
it was notified of the scam in 2019 but I dont think it could. As Ms M made this 
payment via her debit card, the only option available to Santander to recover the 
funds was to raise a chargeback - a chargeback is a voluntary process with the 
card scheme (such as Visa or Mastercard) where a bank can raise a claim for a 
refund of a payment with the merchants bank. It is not guaranteed to be 
successful. 
 Santander didnt raise a chargeback as they didnt believe in the particular 
circumstances of this case that it had any reasonable prospect of success and 
Im satisfied this was reasonable given the circumstances. This is because Ms M 
used a third-party money transfer service who processed the payment and then 
passed it on to the company in question. Essentially, Ms M paid the money 
transfer company for a service - the sending on of the funds - and ultimately this 
service was provided. And so, even though this payment was made as the result 
of a scam, its unlikely that any chargeback claim against the money transfer 
service wouldve been successful. And so Im not satisfied that Santander have 
done anything wrong in not pursuing a chargeback claim on Ms Ms behalf. 
 Finally, I thought about whether the compensation offered to Ms M for not 
logging her complaint when it shouldve done in 2019 is reasonable and I think it 
is. I understand that the delay in the logging of the complaint must be frustrating 
for Ms M but even if the complaint had been logged sooner than it was, I dont 
think this wouldve resulted in the return of her funds as she has suggested. 
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Ms M has found herself in. I appreciate that 
she has lost money as a result. But I dont think her loss was caused by any specific 
failing on behalf of Santander. The fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves. And so, 
I wont be upholding this complaint and I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman