DRN-1951391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building (YBS) society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with YBS on 2001 and bought a PPI policy at around the 
same time. They applied for both the mortgage and the PPI by post.
The policy  for which they paid a monthly premium  gave them an equal joint monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months if either of them lost their job.
Mr and Mrs M say the PPI wasnt fully explained to them and they didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree and 
so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. I can see Mr and Mrs M said they didnt want PPI through YBS when they 
signed their mortgage application on 20 July 2001. 
But towards the end of July 2001 they were sent a letter from YBS about PPI which included 
an illustration of the cover they could get and offered them free cover for six months. A few 
days later, Mr and Mrs M signed and sent off a separate postal PPI application form. In this 
they selected the monthly PPI cover, benefit split and excess period they wanted. From this, 
I think its clear they agreed to the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
YBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. And given that the sale was by post 
I think thats probably right. This means YBS didnt need to make sure the PPI was right for 
Mr and Mrs M in their particular circumstances  this was a decision they had to make 
themselves. But YBS shouldve given them all the clear information they needed about the 
PPI to be able to make that decision themselves in an informed way.
Its likely YBS didnt make some things about the PPI as clear to Mr and Mrs M as it 
shouldve. But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold their complaint. Instead, I 
need to look at whether, if they had all the clear information they shouldve, Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve made a different decision, and not gone ahead with the PPI. From the information I 
have about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I dont 
think it wouldve changed their decision. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the 
limitations and exclusions in the policy that mightve made it more difficult for them to 
claim. So I think they couldve had the full policy benefit if theyd needed it.
I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve found the unemployment cover of some use. Although 
they say they had some savings, the PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months for each successful unemployment they made. This wouldve enabled them 
to use their savings for other necessary household expenses if theyd needed. I say 
this bearing in mind Mr and Mrs M were taking on a significant long-term financial 
commitment with their mortgage. And it was secured on their home, which was at risk 
if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold the PPI. This means YBS doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M. But YBS has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M because: 
 YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
 so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman