DRN-3175455
The complaint
Mrs M complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) misled her on two occasions about the 
charges being levied on her pension policy. She also complains about how long it took 
ReAssure to provide a full breakdown of the charges shed paid. 
What happened
Mrs M held a pension policy with another provider. I understand that at some time around 
2009 or 2010 the policy was taken over by ReAssure. 
At the time the policy was taken over by ReAssure, Mrs M said she called them, as she was 
really confused about the fees they were charging. She said she was told that the fees were 
largely exit fees which would only be imposed if she transferred her policy away from 
ReAssure, rather than ongoing fees where money would actually be taken from her account. 
Mrs M has been unable to confirm the date this call took place. And ReAssure havent been 
able to locate any record of this call.
Mrs M said that, at the time ReAssure took over the policy, her financial adviser told her that 
it wasnt worth transferring the policy away from ReAssure due to the high exit fees. She 
said she was advised to reduce her monthly payment to the minimum of £15 each month.
After receiving her annual statement dated 10 July 2020, Mrs M called ReAssure on 29 July 
2020 to ask them about the charges on her policy. The July 2020 statement stated that Mrs 
M had paid policy charges totalling £1,463.32. During the call, ReAssures agent stated that 
the exit fees, which reduced over time as Mrs M approached her retirement age, had been 
included in the policy charges. 
Mrs M asked ReAssure to confirm exactly what shed paid in charges over the last year. 
ReAssures agent agreed to provide the requested information in writing within five to ten 
working days. Mrs M was unhappy that this information would take so long to produce so 
raised a complaint. She also didnt feel that ReAssure was transparent with the fees being 
charged on the statements they provided.
ReAssure issued their final response to this complaint on 4 August 2020. They didnt uphold 
it. They said that the breakdown of charges had been provided in line with the industry 
standard of 10 working days. They said that the annual statements showed the annual 
charge. And that the charges on Mrs Ms policy hadnt changed since the policy had come to 
them, and were in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
On 7 August 2020, ReAssure sent Mrs M two further letters which detailed the breakdown of 
the charges levied on the two parts of the policy she held with them.
Mrs M didnt consider that ReAssure had answered the main part of her complaint in their 4 
August 2020 response, so she complained again on 25 August 2020. She explained that her 
main complaint was that shed been misled about the charges on her policy. She said 
ReAssure had misinformed her about the charges both at the time they took over her policy, 
and on 29 July 2020. She said if shed known how high the policy charges were and that the 
exit charge didnt form part of the policy charge, she wouldve taken action when her policy 
first transferred over. She said this had led to her not taking the action she couldve taken to 
reduce costs for many years. Mrs M also repeated her complaint about the length of time it 
had taken to get the breakdown of policy charges. She felt the policy charges should be 
transparent and obvious on the statement. And that ReAssures agents should have 
information like this available if a customer asked for it. Mrs M asked ReAssure to 
investigate her complaint and to compensate her for all the years that theyd overcharged 
her. 
Mrs M chased ReAssure for a response on 26 October 2020. 
ReAssure issued their response on 19 November 2020. The didnt uphold the complaint, 
which they felt was that they hadnt been open about the charges on the policy. They said 
that the charges had been outlined at the start of the policy and hadnt changed during its 
course, in line with the original policy terms and conditions. They also said that theyd 
recently reviewed the statements issued. And that theyd amended their statements to 
include full details of the applicable charges, in line with Financial Conduct Authority 
guidance. 
As ReAssure still hadnt responded to Mrs Ms complaint about the misleading information 
shed been given, Mrs M chased them for a full response to her original complaint on 30 
November 2020 and 14 January 2021. She said ReAssure hadnt addressed her specific 
point in relation to being deliberately misled about charges in her calls to their agents. She 
said shed been actively misled when shed tried to clarify the charges on the phone. 
ReAssure didnt respond to Mrs M, so she brought her complaint to this service on 1 
February 2021. She said ReAssure hadnt answered her complaint about having been 
misled. And hadnt provided her with a copy of the 29 July 2020 call as shed requested. She 
said shed had to chase ReAssure several times before theyd issued their second response 
in November 2020. And that theyd failed to address the main part of her complaint in that 
response. She said shed like ReAssure to refund the additional charges since her policy 
had moved to them. And also to allow her to transfer her policy to another provider for a 
reasonable fee. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that the 
incorrect information ReAssure had provided had led to Mrs M delaying a transfer she 
wouldve otherwise made. But she felt that ReAssure had made an error when theyd given 
incorrect information to Mrs M during the 29 July 2020 phone call and considered that this 
wouldve caused some form of distress. She also felt that Mrs M had had to chase ReAssure 
a number of times for a response to her complaint. So she felt that ReAssure should pay Mrs 
M £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. She said she wouldve transferred if shed known 
that the fees were so high. She said if shed known the charges were so high, and the exit 
fee was in addition, it wouldve made sense to pay the exit fees and transfer to somewhere 
with lower fees. But that she didnt do this due to being misled twice by ReAssures agent. 
She said her financial advisor had thought the transfer cost was too high. But that theyd 
both felt that the charges were only a couple of hundred pounds a year. 
Mrs M also said shed been waiting until her complaint was resolved before she transferred. 
She thought that if she transferred during the complaint process it would be problematic. She 
felt that our investigator had misunderstood her situation as she couldnt understand why 
shed judged that thered been no financial loss. She said shed paid thousands in charges 
despite being told she wasnt being charged. Mrs M said shed suffered significant financial loss and that shed originally requested that this service would get ReAssure to waive the 
transfer fee. 
Mrs M said that even if our investigator had taken the view that shed lied about the 
information ReAssure had given her when the policy had moved to them, which she hadnt, 
theyd repeated the incorrect information during the 29 July 2020 call. She felt that even in 
that situation she should still be compensated for the period from 29 July 2020 to now for the 
additional charges. She didnt consider that the £250 compensation our investigator had 
suggested was fair under the circumstances. 
ReAssure also disagreed with our investigators findings. They said that they couldnt agree 
to the £250 compensation suggested. They said this was because the charges on Mrs Ms 
plan hadnt changed since inception. An because they provided the breakdown of charges 
within their usual service standard of 10 working days.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
I understand that in May 2022 Mrs M completed the transfer of her ReAssure policy to 
another provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
that ReAssure gave Mrs M incorrect information about charges when the policy first moved 
to them. And although I can see that ReAssure gave Mrs M misleading information on 29 
July 2020, they provided correct information in writing around a week later. I know this 
decision will disappoint Mrs M. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
ReAssure have provided copies of the 2018, 2019 and 2020 annual statements. Theyve 
also provided the original policy documentation. So I first considered whether theres any 
evidence that incorrect charges have been levied. And, additionally, whether ReAssure 
provided reasonable information to Mrs M about the charges.
Is there any evidence that incorrect charges have been levied?
Mrs M considers that shes been overcharged since her policy moved to ReAssure. 
ReAssure said that the charges had been outlined at the start of the policy and hadnt 
changed since then. And that the charges theyd levied were in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Having reviewed the original policy document and the annual statements, including the 
weblink provided on the statements to access more information about policy charges, Ive 
found no evidence that Mrs M has been charged incorrectly over the course of her policy. 
Therefore I cant reasonably say that Mrs M has been overcharged.
I next considered if the charges were as transparent as they were required to be.
What did the annual statements say?
Mrs M didnt consider that ReAssure had been transparent with the fees being charged on 
the statements they provided.ReAssure said that their statements had followed Financial Conduct Authority guidance. 
The 2018 statement gave the transfer value for one part of Mrs Ms policy as £60,303.24 as 
at 9 July 2018. And stated that the policy charges totalled £1,379.15.
The statement contained a note about policy charges. It said:
The policy charges listed above include two types of charges: Implicit charges and Explicit 
charges. Explicit charges are taken from your policy value and premiums and can include 
charges such as policy fees and bid-offer spread. Implicit charges are taken from the daily 
prices of every unit you're invested in. These include Annual Management Charges (AMCs) 
and Investment Management Charges (IMCs) and are used to cover the cost of 
administering your policy. To find out more about policy charges go to 
www.reassure.co.uk/charges.
If the weblink is followed, further information about the charges, and a phone number to call 
if further information is needed, is provided. The statement also noted that the exit penalty 
had reduced by £200.29 over the period covered by the statement.
The 2019 statement gave the transfer value for the policy as £65,092.78 as at 9 July 2019. 
And stated that the policy charges totalled £1,412.45. The statement contained the same 
note about policy charges contained in the 2018 statement. And also noted that the exit 
penalty had reduced by £200.61 over the period covered by the statement.
The 2019 statement included information from Pension Wise, encouraging customers to 
consider taking action to reduce the annual management charge (AMC) on the policy, which 
it said was 1.5% each year. It gave alternative fund options which had AMCs of 0.65% each 
year.
Moving to the 2020 statement, receipt of which led to Mrs Ms call on 29 July 2020 to 
ReAssure. This statement gave the transfer value for the policy as £63,795.41 as at 9 July 
2020. And stated that the policy charges totalled £1,463.32. The statement contained the 
same note about policy charges contained in the 2018 statement. And also noted that the 
exit penalty had reduced by £351.42 over the period covered by the statement. This 
statement also included the Pension Wise information that had been included with the 2019 
statement. I understand this information was partially responsible for Mrs Ms questions on 
charges later that month.
Ive looked at the relevant figures from the 2020 statement. The statement allowed a 
customer to see how their transfer value had moved from one year to the next. It took the 9 
July 2019 transfer value of £65,092.78 as the starting point. And then showed how adding in 
the bonus, tax relief, and money paid in (£1,139.80), then subtracting the Policy charges 
(£1,463.32), then adding in the reduction in exit penalty (£351.42) and the changes to with-
profits bonus rates (- £1,325.27) led to the 9 July 2020 transfer value of £63,795.41.
Written as a sum this is:
£65,092.78 + £1,139.80 - £1,463.32 + £351.42 - £1,325.27 = £63,795.41
I do appreciate that this calculation may have been difficult for Mrs M to reproduce, but I 
wouldve expected her financial adviser to have been able to replicate it. I also consider that 
the statement is clear that £1,463.32 was being taken out of the policy for charges, given the 
amount of information shown in the statement. The statement also clearly labels the policy 
charges as such. Therefore I consider that the 2020 statement does show that the charges 
that year were £1,463.32, and that the money had been taken from the fund. The same is true of the 2018 and the 2019 statements. Im not persuaded that Mrs M and her financial 
adviser both felt that the annual charges were low but the exit penalty was high. I say this 
because the statement clearly shows what the annual charges have been.
From the statements Ive seen, Im satisfied that they were as transparent as they were 
required to be. I acknowledge that the policy charges were simply listed as a total pound 
amount, rather than being broken down into the constituent parts, but Im not persuaded that 
makes any difference to this complaint. The policy charges were clearly labelled on the 
statements. So I consider that the statements did provide clear information about the amount 
that had been deducted from Mrs Ms policy. I appreciate that Mrs M doesnt agree, but Ive 
no evidence that ReAssure did anything wrong with the information provided on the 
statements. 
I next considered the main part of Mrs Ms complaint. That is, that ReAssure gave Mrs M 
incorrect information which caused her to delay a transfer to a cheaper provider and led to a 
financial loss due to the additional charges she felt shed paid. 
Did ReAssure provide incorrect information to Mrs M?
Mrs M said that ReAssure gave her incorrect information on two occasions. First at the time 
her policy transferred over to them. And second during a call on 29 July 2020. She said that 
if the correct information had been given to her when her plan first transferred to ReAssure 
she wouldve taken action.
Ive found no evidence to confirm Mrs Ms recollection that she was given incorrect 
information when the plan moved to ReAssure. Thats not to say I dont believe her 
recollection, but my decision must be based on documentary evidence  it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to simply rely on what either party says. 
I do have evidence that Mrs M was given incorrect information on 29 July 2020. During that 
call, ReAssures agent incorrectly stated that the exit fees had been included in the policy 
charges shown on the July 2020 statement. This wasnt true. But theres also evidence that 
the correct charging information was provided in a letter dated less than a week later, when 
ReAssure provided a full breakdown of the £1,463.32 policy charge shown on Mrs Ms July 
2020 statement. As I stated earlier, I consider that the policy charge had already been 
clearly stated on that statement.  Therefore I consider that while I do have evidence that 
ReAssure gave Mrs M incorrect information, I can see that they corrected their mistake 
within a week. 
Without additional evidence about the first time Mrs M said ReAssure had given her incorrect 
information, other than her recollection that shed been given the wrong charging information 
from the start, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold the complaint that the 
incorrect information led Mrs M to retain her plan with ReAssure rather than transferring it. 
Im also satisfied that the statements ReAssure provided were clear about the policy 
charges. 
In summary, apart from Mrs Ms testimony, the only additional evidence I have which shows 
that Mrs M was given incorrect information is the 29 July 2020 call recording. The incorrect 
information given on that call was effectively corrected in a letter dated 5 August 2020. This 
explained in detail the £1,463.32 policy charge shown on Mrs Ms July 2020 statement.
Given the short period of time between the incorrect information being provided, and then 
corrected, Im not persuaded that the incorrect information caused Mrs M a financial 
detriment. I say this because although Mrs M said that she wouldve transferred her policy 
away from ReAssure if shed been aware of the charges, she didnt actually transfer her policy away from ReAssure until early 2022. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to uphold this complaint on the basis that the incorrect information caused around one 
week of delay, when the process to transfer didnt then start until a further 18 months had 
passed. 
I acknowledge that Mrs M told this service that the reason she didnt transfer her policy after 
finding out the detail of the charges she had paid was because of her complaint. But Mrs M 
also told this service that her financial adviser told her not to transfer her policy to another 
provider due to the high exit penalty. I can see that Mrs M has subsequently told this service 
that both her and her financial adviser understood that the exit penalty was high but the 
annual charges were low, but Im not persuaded about this. I say this based on the 
information contained in the statements. I also note that the exit penalty was reducing over 
time, so the longer Mrs M left the transfer, the lower the penalty would be.  So Im not 
persuaded that ReAssure should be held responsible for Mrs Ms decision not to transfer 
until several months after shed been given the correct information, despite her complaint 
being ongoing. I dont have the evidence to say that ReAssures incorrect information during 
the 29 July 2020 call caused her to act differently from how she wouldve acted without the 
error. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ms complaint about the length of time it took ReAssure to provide 
the full charges breakdown. She said it wasnt reasonable for that to have taken five to ten 
working days. And felt that such information should be to hand if a customer called 
ReAssure. 
While I understand why Mrs M wouldve liked this information to be readily available, I dont 
consider that ReAssure took too long to provide it. I say this because Mrs Ms request was 
for detailed information that wasnt usually made available to customers. It wouldve required 
additional work to be carried out. From what Ive seen, ReAssure provided the information in 
the timeframe they said they would provide it. And I consider that the timeframe they used 
was in line with industry standards for a request of this type. Therefore I dont uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
I next considered the distress and inconvenience ReAssure have caused Mrs M.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive found evidence that ReAssure gave Mrs M incorrect information during the call on 29 
July 2020. I acknowledge that Mrs M doesnt agree that she wasnt financially impacted by 
ReAssures error. But as Ive explained above, I dont consider that the error led to a 
financial loss, as shes always been charged the correct fees for her policy, and those 
charges were detailed on her annual statements. But I do agree that being given incorrect 
information wouldve been distressing.
Ive also seen that Mrs M has had difficulty getting through to ReAssure. Theyve not always 
called her back when they said they would. And their responses to her complaints have been 
incomplete and taken longer that I wouldve expected. Taking all of this into account, I agree 
with our investigator that compensation of £250 is reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I acknowledge that ReAssure dont agree that there should be a distress and inconvenience 
payment, but one of the reasons theyve given to reject it is linked to the financial loss 
complaint, rather than the error they made. And the other reason theyve given doesnt form 
part of the distress and inconvenience payment Ive suggested. I cant see that theyve ever 
acknowledged that their agent made a mistake. And theyve not responded to Mrs M about 
this specific aspect of her complaint. Therefore Im not persuaded that no compensation for distress and inconvenience is due under the circumstances. And I uphold the complaint in 
this respect.
Putting things right
I require ReAssure Limited to pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience their error caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to pay 
Mrs M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their error caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman