DRN-3025276
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line handled a claim 
he made on his car insurance.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr A had an accident in his car. The following day he rang Direct Line to 
inform them. 
Direct Line told him in this call that it was likely that his car would be classed as a total loss, 
and arranged for it to be recovered to a storage yard. It informed him that an engineer would 
call him to discuss the damage to it and decide if it was worth repairing.
Under his policy he was entitled to a hire vehicle for the duration of the repairs, or if his car 
wasnt repairable, until the date of settlement. Direct Line explained that as it was treating 
the accident as a non-fault claim, he had two options of hire cars. He could:
Have a hire car from firm X who would look to recover all its costs from the third party 
to the accident. This would mean he would get a car of similar size/class to his own, 
it wouldnt impact his own insurance or no-claims bonus and any accidents or 
incidents would be covered by firm X.
Have a hire car from firm Y which would be arranged under his insurance policy, but 
this would only be a basic class vehicle, and any accidents or incidents would be 
covered by his insurance policy.
Mr A elected to hire a car from firm X, so Direct Line told him it would send him the details. 
Mr A had to call firm X to arrange this.
On 14 December 2020 Direct Lines engineer called Mr A. The engineer decided Mr As car 
was a total loss and valued it at £875, but Mr A thought it was worth more. This valuation 
was confirmed on 20 December and the settlement payment was sent to Mr As account on 
21 December 2020.
Firm X then contacted Mr A to say as the claim had been settled by Direct Line he had 
seven days to return the hire car.
Mr A complained to Direct Line. He said the settlement hadnt been agreed so he shouldnt 
have to return the hire car and he didnt know that hed only get seven days from the initial 
settlement.
Direct Line didnt uphold his complaint. It said that having listened back to the call it was 
satisfied he was told several times that the hire car could only be kept until the settlement 
was received.
Mr A complained to our service. He said he thought he could keep the hire car until the claim 
was settled, and as he was disputing the settlement amount this meant it hadnt been 
settled. He said Direct Line shouldve explained this more clearly, and he had been highly 
inconvenienced and was rushed into buying a new car.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She thought Direct Line had been clear in 
explaining the hire car options and process to him, and had treated him fairly, but Mr A didnt 
agree. He thought Direct Line shouldve been clearer about what it considered settlement 
and that firm X would take the car back after seven days. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr A, but I need to decide if Direct Line has made any errors or omissions, or has treated 
him unfairly. And I dont think it has.
Ive listened closely to a recording of the call Mr A made to Direct Line when he first informed 
it of the accident. Having gone through the circumstances, the agent then confirmed Mr A 
was entitled to a hire car, and she went through the two options he had. 
The first option was to use hire firm A, which would be outside his policy and not impact it at 
all, or the second which would be to hire a vehicle under his policy. The wording used by the 
agent was, in my opinion clear, and laid out the advantages and disadvantages in the 
options so he was able to make an informed decision. 
And having listened to the call Im also satisfied that Direct Line made it clear that the 
duration of the hire agreement would be until the claim was settled, and the settlement was 
paid to Mr A. The crux of this complaint is the confusion around when the claim is 
considered settled. But its what X thought the settlement date was that is important, 
because it is X that decided when it would terminate the hire agreement, not Direct Line. And 
X has used 21 December 2020 as the settlement date, as that is the date Mr A received the 
money. But Mr A thinks it wasnt settled at that point as he was disputing the value of his car 
with Direct Line. But Im afraid the hire car agreement termination date is not something that 
I can hold Direct Line responsible for. This was Xs decision.
I can see from the contact notes that the engineer and Mr A discussed the value of his car 
on 14 December 2020. Mr A didnt agree with the initial valuation and said he would send in 
evidence to support a higher valuation. Ive seen he sent in some incomplete service history, 
and the engineer tried to contact him twice to discuss this, but Mr A didnt respond. So as a 
result the settlement was processed and paid on 21 December 2020. So, Im satisfied that 
Direct Line treated Mr A fairly here.
Mr A has complained he wasnt told about having to return the hire car seven days after the 
settlement date. Im afraid this is not something that I can comment on as this wouldve been 
the responsibility of firm X to tell him, and part of the terms and conditions he agreed with 
firm X in the hire agreement. This wouldnt have been the responsibility of Direct Line and as 
firm X arent financially regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority this aspect of the 
complaint is not within the jurisdiction of our service.
  
My final decisionAs a result of all the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman