DRN-3697054
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited in relation 
to a claim he made for his damaged supercar.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in 2017. He made a claim to Admiral and that resulted in a 
previous complaint to this service. A final decision on that complaint was issued in 
January 2021. Mr B and Admiral then began corresponding regarding storage costs for the 
car. Mr B said hed had to keep the car stored and its standard practice to charge insurance 
companies £35.00 a day for that purpose. So he expected Admiral to pay him for three 
months of storage in 2017, four months in early 2018 and then from September 2018 
onwards, with the car still being stored. Ultimately Admiral, noting that the car had been 
stored at Mr Bs home and citing what it felt was a lack of proof for him having incurred any 
costs, said it wouldnt pay the sums Mr B was asking for. 
Admiral settled the claim for the car in August 2021  it wrote to Mr B explaining the car had 
been declared a category B total loss. In around October 2021 Admiral wrote to Mr B again. 
It told him it had changed the category to C so he could apply to the DVLA to retain his 
private number plate which was on the damaged car. Mr B then tried to retain the plate but 
was unable to do so. Admiral told him it hadnt changed the categorisation  but that 
shouldnt matter. Mr B received a letter from the DVLA which, in short, said the car had been 
untaxed and not declared off the road (SORN) for so long it wouldnt accept an application to 
retain the private plate. Mr B felt Admiral had caused this problem with the categorisation 
and with having delayed the claim. Admiral accepted it shouldnt have told him it had 
changed the category when it hadnt. But it didnt feel this had caused Mr B a problem. 
Admiral felt it had delayed giving Mr B an answer on the storage costs issue. And noted the 
incorrect information it had given him regarding the private plate. So it offered £400 
compensation. Mr B remained unhappy. He made a further complaint to us. 
Mr B provided further evidence to our Investigator regarding the storage costs, including an 
invoice dated June 2022 for storage costs he was being charged by the garage which, he 
said, he rents the unit to, at his home, where his car has been stored. The invoice detailed 
storage costs at a rate of £35.00 a day for the period September 2018 until June 2022. 
Our Investigator felt Admiral wasnt reasonably liable for storage costs. She also thought that 
the problem Mr B was having with the DVLA regarding the private plate hadnt been caused 
by any failure of Admiral.
Mr B said storing the car had been vitally important to his previous complaint being upheld. 
He said hed shown proof, including a letter from his accountant, that he lets that space to 
the garage, which he part owns, and that the garage expected him to pay it for having used 
the space. He said if hed breached the rental agreement with the garage, hed have been 
out of pocket for that income. So either way hed have had a loss. He said its standard for 
insurers to pay to store cars in claims like this. Which he said he could show given time. The 
fact that his car was stored on premises, at his home, which he lets out to a garage, which 
he part owns, shouldnt, Mr B said, make Admiral any less liable for his costs. And neither, 
he said, should the fact that written correspondence about this loss only occurred towards 
the end of the claim.  
Our Investigator told Mr B that the evidence regarding Admiral paying other storage claims 
was unlikely to affect the outcome of his complaint. So she said he wouldnt be given extra 
time to provide this information. 
  
Regarding the plate, Mr B said that hed had until 2018 to tax the car  but the incident which 
led to the claim had happened, and then the claim was delayed. He said he hadnt had the 
V5 since the early stages of the claim and Admiral had told him, quite early on, that the car 
belonged to it  which all meant hed been unable to tax or SORN the car. He said Admiral 
knew he wanted to keep the plate and had promised he could keep it  so it shouldve acted 
to ensure that could happen. He added that hed had no need to worry about declaring the 
car SORN due to his motor traders licence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this claim and the issues surrounding it have been ongoing for a long time 
for Mr B. And I understand that he feels very let down by Admiral. Im also aware of the 
previous decision made by this service which made certain findings about what had 
happened, including about how Admiral had failed Mr B. So I know things have been 
contentious and I can understand why Mr B still feels Admiral needs to do more. But I dont 
think its liable to him for storage costs or in respect of his private plate which it seems he will 
not be able to retain.  
I understand that Mr B asked for me to hold consideration of his complaint so he can provide  
more evidence in respect of Admiral paying storage costs in other claims. But, as our 
Investigator explained, this service looks at each complaint on its own merits. So what 
Admiral does in other situations cant reasonably be used to guide any finding about what is 
fair and reasonable in the situation that exists between Admiral and Mr B.
I know Mr B has said that he did speak with Admiral many times on the phone about storage 
costs during the course of the claim. But I dont see that the issue of storage costs was ever 
discussed by the parties until after my colleague issued his final decision. And that is despite 
there having been many issues of loss being raised as part, and during the course, of that 
claim and complaint. Furthermore, in February 2021, when Mr B began dealing with the 
storage issue in writing, he said he would be looking to charge Admiral £35.00 a day. 
Notably, for me, he didnt say this is what the garage had charged him already. And when 
Mr B presented the invoice from the garage it was dated June 2022. So this hasnt been 
presented as a historic cost. On balance Im satisfied that its most likely that this wasnt a 
factor raised by Mr B to Admiral earlier during the claim.
For me, Admiral not having been made aware of the charges earlier is important. Any 
insurer, or policyholder, needs to have the opportunity to consider their position and, if they 
wish to, to act to mitigate any losses that are occurring or will likely occur. Admiral was 
aware that Mr Bs car was being stored  but at his home address. I havent seen that it was 
ever made aware, before February 2021, that the car being stored in this way was going to 
result in charges occurring. That would not be normal for a car being stored at a 
policyholders home. So I dont think Admiral knew or could reasonably have foreseen that 
costs for storage of the car would likely apply. And because Mr B didnt warn it or explain 
that to it, it had no chance to act to avoid or limit those costs. Furthermore, whilst Mr B told Admiral in 2021 that he was looking to charge it for storage, I dont think the later reason 
given for those charges  the storage being rented to the garage and leased back to Mr B  
was fully explained or supported with the provision of evidence until 2022. As such, and 
given Admiral couldnt have been reasonably expected to foresee charges would accrue for 
Mr B in using the storage sited at his home address, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to make Admiral liable for them now. 
I understand that retaining the private plate is important for Mr B. But Admiral has no 
influence over the DVLA. Ive seen the letter Mr B received from the DVLA and it explains 
that for the plate to be retained, as a minimum, the application has to be made within five 
years of the car last being taxed and with a SORN declaration having been made. The car 
was last taxed in 2013, at the point of the claim in 2017, it hadnt been re-taxed or declared 
SORN and that remained the case into 2018 and beyond. With the retention application only 
being made in 2021. So the car wasnt taxed or SORN for more than five years before the 
application was made and it is this that is stopping Mr B retaining the plate, not the 
categorisation of loss which Admiral has applied to the car. 
As I said above, Im aware of the claims history, as well as the previous decision issued by 
my colleague. Overall it clearly took a long time to resolve with settlement for the car only 
being made in August 2021. But Im not persuaded that the progress of the claim, or any 
failure of Admiral, has really caused the issue that has arisen now regarding the plate. 
Given the investigation and enquiries Mr B made in 2021, when he was trying to retain the 
plate, I think that he was previously unaware of the DVLA policy. Im also mindful that Mr B 
has explained that he had no cause to need to tax or SORN the car because of his motor 
trade licence. So whilst I know Mr B thinks he couldnt have acted before 2018 to tax or 
SORN the car (because of the claim and documents held by Admiral), it seems he didnt 
actually try to do so. Which means he didnt ask Admiral for any relevant documents he 
needed or for assistance with progressing any application with the DVLA. And I also think 
that private number plates are not that common. And it is an even rarer situation for a car 
which is so long out of tax, to be subject of an insurance claim. So, I dont think I could fairly 
say that the DVLA retention policy, with its associated deadlines, is something Admiral, as 
insurance experts, should reasonably have been aware of. As such I cant reasonably have 
expected it to have acted any differently. In short, whilst both parties knew the plate was to 
be retained and intended for that to happen, neither was aware there was a potential bar to 
that in the shape of the DVLA retention policy. I think its regrettable for Mr B, after all of this 
time, to face losing the last part of his car  understandably this is a very important issue for 
him. But I dont think this loss is something which has been caused by any failure of Admiral.  
For its part Admiral has accepted that in 2021 it should have answered Mr Bs issue 
regarding the storage costs sooner. It has also accepted that it misled Mr B by telling him it 
had changed the loss categorisation of the car when it hadnt. Admiral has offered £400 
compensation for the resultant upset caused. I think that is fair and reasonable of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman