DRN-2390610
The complaint
Mr G complains Creation Financial Services Limited will not refund some disputed 
transactions.  He also complains he was allowed to exceed the cash limit placed on the 
account.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr G contacted Creation about some transactions on his account.  The 
transactions he complained of were to a gambling website  L - and were made between 
December 2018 and June 2019.  Mr G held an account with L but said he hadnt made these 
transactions. It was a family member and he had not noticed earlier as he was not keeping 
an eye on the account. 
He also complained that he was able to exceed the cash limit on his account.  The cash limit 
was £2000 and Mr G said he was currently at a balance of over £7000.  He said this should 
not have happened.
Mr G said he knew the person who had been making the transactions and told Creation that 
he didnt think this was a case of fraud and he didnt want to get the police involved.  During 
one of his earlier calls with Creation, he said he wasnt disputing any of the transactions up 
to the £2000.  He said anything over £2000 should have been declined.  He also wanted to 
know why Creations fraud team had not picked up on the transactions.
On a number of occasions, during the calls with Creation, Mr G repeated that he knew who 
had made the transactions, he was not pursuing the transactions as fraud and wanted to 
know why he was allowed to go over his credit limit to this extent.
Creation did not uphold Mr Gs complaint.  In its final response issued in August 2019, it told 
Mr G that the payments could be made because they were authorised against Mr Gs overall 
credit limit  not just the cash limit of £2000.  It also said it was no longer allowing gambling 
transactions to be made from September 2019  although it wasnt clear whether this was a 
decision which affected just Mr G.  Finally, it told Mr G that he could bring his complaint to 
this service.
When we considered Mr Gs complaint, our investigator thought Creation could have done 
more.  He thought Mr G had authorised the transactions  but having looked at the terms 
and conditions of Mr Gs account, he (the investigator) said that gambling transactions were 
classed as cash transactions. On this basis, he thought Mr G should be able to assume that 
he would not be able to exceed the cash limit of £2000.  Because Creation had allowed him 
to do this, it was fair and reasonable for it to refund all the fees it had charged Mr G for going 
over the cash limit of £2000 along with any interest charged on these fees.
However, our investigator thought Mr G to be liable for the balance on the account.
Neither Creation nor Mr G agreed.
Creation said it was wrong to suggest that gambling transactions would be authorised 
against the cash limit only.  
Mr G wanted Creation to write off the balance over £2000, to remove all handling fees, 
interest and late payment fees and to remove any negative entries against his credit file.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the question of authorisation when looking at Mr Gs complaint as I note 
from the calls with Creation, Mr G says on several occasions that a family member had 
made the transactions. Ive then gone on to consider the issue of the balance of the account.
were the transactions authorised?
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests that its more than likely that Mr G authorised 
these transactions, Creation is entitled to hold him liable for them.  The relevant rules - the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017- say this. 
But authorisation is a two-stage test which consists of the element of authentication and the 
element of consent.
Creation hasnt been able to show us evidence of authentication  that is evidence that Mr 
Gs card was used to make these transactions  because it says too much time has passed 
and it has not retained this information.  Neither can it provide us with information to show 
the IP address which was used to make the transactions.
Ive thought about whether this affects my decision, but I dont think it does.  Mr G says the 
person making the transactions was a family member who lived at the same address  so 
the IP address wouldnt be anything unusual.  And I think Im satisfied that it was Mr Gs card 
which was used to make the transactions  because he told us that he had left his card 
stored with all his log in details for the account he held with L.
So, looking then at consent.  For the following reasons, I think Mr G consented to these 
payments being made;
- the account which was being used with L was Mr Gs account. I cant see how a third 
person would benefit from making these transactions where any winnings would 
simply be paid back into Mr Gs account;
- Mr G says he was in hospital for some parts during the period of the disputed 
transactions.  He hasnt provided us with evidence to show when, but I dont think 
this would take us any further as we have no record of the IP address used;
- the transactions had been taking places for approximately eight months before Mr G 
complained.  I think its likely Mr G would have noticed this balance increase sooner if 
he was not the one making them;
- Mr G had a previous relationship with L;
credit limit
I agree with the investigator here  the terms and conditions of the account clearly refer to gambling transactions as an example of a cash advance. So, I think it is unfair and 
unreasonable for Creation to insist that the transactions were authorised against the total 
credit limit of Mr Gs account rather than just the cash limit  whilst at the same time treating 
the transactions as cash transactions.
That said, I must consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
and I dont think it would be fair to hold Creation liable for the balance over and above the 
cash limit.
Ive considered my findings regarding authorisation and Ive thought about what a fair 
resolution to Mr Gs complaint would be.  I think its right that a customer holds some 
responsibility in exceeding the limit in the way that Mr G has and so I think the investigators 
proposal is a fair one.
Finally, having listened to the calls between Mr G and Creation, I think the customer service 
levels fell short of what would be expected.  Mr G had reason to chase on several occasions 
when Creation failed to call him  and he was given conflicting information from advisers as 
to whether he should or should not have been able to exceed the cash limit on the account.  
For the poor service, I think Creation should pay Mr G £150. 
Putting things right
 For the reasons given above, Creation Financial Services Limited should:
- refund all the cash handling fees charged to the account after it exceeded the cash 
limit of £2000
- refund all interest charged of the cash handling fees
- pay Mr G £150 for the poor service he received during the telephone calls. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman