DRN-2705061
The complaint
Mr S complains Revolut Ltd unfairly closed his account and failed to return the funds he held 
in the account. He wants to know why his account was closed and compensation for the 
financial loss and trouble he was caused by not having his funds 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr S in early July 2021. In that decision I set out the 
background facts to the complaint. Its important I now repeat those same facts for the 
purposes of this final decision.
Mr S held an account with Revolut. In late 2019 he found his account was blocked. He 
contacted Revolut online and was told his account was under review and no further 
information could be provided. Revolut decided to terminate Mr S account and said it would 
return the funds in his account to where they originated.
Mr S complained to Revolut. He wanted to know why his account was closed and 
complained he hadnt received his funds. Revolut rejected his complaint. It said it closed his 
account correctly and didnt need to give him its reasons.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered his complaint and 
issued two views. In their first view they concluded:
Revolut reviewed Mr S account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and it 
was able to block the account. It was entitled to close the account and didnt need to 
tell him why. It returned the funds in his account back to source, which was fair.
Mr S was concerned about Revoluts processes, as well as that of the firm to who the 
funds were allegedly returned. But our service does not monitor the conduct of firms 
or set the processes firms should follow. That responsibility fell to the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. The investigator could only consider the service Mr S 
received from Revolut and the impact it had on him.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He said he hadnt received the funds. The 
investigator contacted Revolut and Revolut discovered the funds had been returned 
back to it in June 2020.
The investigator revisited the complaint and recommended Revolut pay £100 for the 
inconvenience Mr S was caused. Mr S didnt think this was enough compensation 
and highlighted the effort and time away from work he put into trying to resolve 
matters. He asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
Since then, Revolut said there was an administrative issue between it and the account 
provider to who it tried to return the funds. As a result, it offered to pay Mr S directly the 
balance it tried to return.
I issued a provisional decision and my findings were:
The investigator was correct to conclude Revolut were able to block Mr S account 
while it conducted a review. Revolut has extensive regulatory and legal obligations, 
and blocking the account was proportionate to ensure it complied with its 
responsibilities.
Im satisfied Revoluts reason(s) for blocking the account and trying to return the 
funds to source was understandable. I appreciate the frustration Mr S must feel. Its 
natural he wants to know exactly why Revolut took the actions it did. He wants to 
know if its related to what he describes as the malicious targeting and defaming of 
him by certain individuals. But I havent seen evidence to suggest Revoluts review 
was the result of being contacted by a third party. And I know of no legal obligation 
on Revolut to reveal its reason(s) to Mr S. So, I wont reveal those reason(s) by virtue 
of this complaint.
Revolut could close Mr S account. It had the discretion to terminate the account in 
the same way Mr S could have decided he didnt want Revolut as an account 
provider. Ive considered the account terms and Revolut ought to have provided him 
with a longer notice period. But I cant see how its failure caused Mr S financial loss. 
Giving him longer to open an account elsewhere didnt mean Revoluts decision to try 
and return the funds to source was unreasonable. And I dont find this would have 
prevented the issue which caused his loss.
Revolut took an unreasonable length of time to return Mr S funds. It may have 
encountered problems with the account provider to who it sent the funds back, but 
this wasnt Mr S fault. Revolut offered to pay Mr S the sum directly. But it should 
have done this some time ago. Revolut only realised there was a problem in January 
this year when our investigator questioned whether the funds were really returned to 
source. But it ought to have realised something was wrong when it received the 
funds back in June 2020. It should have contacted Mr S then to arrange payment.
The investigator recommended £100 for the trouble Mr S experienced. But this 
doesnt make up for the length of time he has been waiting. Instead, I find £250 
represents proportionate compensation for the concern and frustration Mr S no doubt 
felt.
Mr S may want more than this. But my role is not to award compensation based on a 
daily rate. Neither would I award compensation to punish Revolut for a mistake. The 
sum reflects what I find is appropriate. Mr S limited income at the time meant the 
sum was significant to him but awarding a larger amount would be unreasonable 
considering the actual sum in question.
Mr S says he couldnt send money to his children to buy presents over Christmas. 
And I was sorry to hear what happened. This must have been a challenging thing to 
have happened. But at that time, I dont find Revolut were wrong to try to send the 
funds back to source. I havent seen incorrect account information was used; the 
same account details were used as the source account. And Revolut werent on 
notice something might be wrong with that account before it sent the funds.
I recommended Revolut refund Mr S the sum of money it tried to return to source and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date it received the funds back from the 
other account provider in June 2020 until the time it pays Mr S. And I recommended 
it pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the frustration he experienced by not having 
use of the funds from June 2020.
Revolut failed to respond to my provisional decision within the deadline I set. Mr S did 
respond. He says he should receive more in compensation. He says Revolut should have 
checked the account details were correct with the third-party account provider before 
attempting to return his funds. He would have received his funds earlier than June 2020 had 
Revolut done so.
Mr S also said my provisional decision did not consider the seriousness of Revolut requiring 
customers to rectify its own mistakes, which is tantamount to criminal conduct. It would be 
appropriate for Revolut to pay the costs he incurred trying to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision, which I have repeated above and which form part of this final decision.
Mr S believes Revolut provided incorrect account details to his third-party account provider. 
But besides Mr S own testimony, I havent seen evidence to demonstrate this is the case. 
The fact funds didnt credit his third-party account doesnt mean Revolut used incorrect 
account details. And in the absence of more persuasive evidence, I find it more likely 
Revolut correctly reverted the payment using the account details it recorded when it received 
the payment. Indeed, Revolut says it doesnt enter account details manually to return the 
funds. They are simply sent back to the account from where they originated.
Revolut can, where appropriate, decide to return funds back to the source account from 
where they originated. But this doesnt mean it will always be reasonable to return funds to 
source depending on the circumstances of each individual customer. However, I find Revolut 
wouldnt have known there was going to be a problem with the receipt of funds to Mr S other 
account, or that it was obliged to check whether the account details it held were still correct. 
So, I dont find it needed to do more than it did before returning the funds.
Mr S is concerned by Revoluts processes. But it is not my role to decide whether Revoluts 
processes are fit for purpose or to issue fines if they are not. That is the remit of the 
regulator. So, Mr S may wish to approach the regulator to express his wider concerns about 
Revoluts conduct.
I would also not look to make an award in order to deter or change Revoluts practices. My 
role instead is to consider the individual circumstances of the complaint before me and 
decide what is fair and reasonable compensation based on those circumstances and how 
they affected Mr S.
I am not awarding Mr S further compensation than what I recommended in my provisional 
decision. I havent seen the problems Mr S experienced with his third-party account provider 
were the responsibility of Revolut or that Revolut erred in the way Mr S claims it did when 
sending the funds back to the provider. I find Revolut ought to have contacted Mr S in June 2020 once it became clear he would not 
be able to access his funds through the third-party account provider. But I dont find Revolut 
should pay redress based on the daily rate Mr suggested. I dont find that would be fair or 
proportionate, and I note Mr S hasnt been able to evidence his costs. Mr S may have spent 
considerable time trying to resolve the matter with his third-party account provider. But this is 
not something for which I am holding Revolut accountable.
Putting things right
 I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund Mr S the sum of money it tried to return to source and add 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date it received the funds back from the other account holder in 
June 2020 until the time it pays Mr S.
Pay Mr S £250 to compensate Mr S for the frustration he experienced by not having 
use of the funds from June 2020 
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr S complaint and I require Revolut Ltd to pay him redress 
according to the direction I have given above, no later than 28 days after Mr S accepts this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman