DRN-3542497
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to Ageas includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 2 March 2020 and which was 
underwritten by Ageas. The policy covered a family ski trip from 29 March 2020 to 9 April 
2020. Their intended travel dates were from 4 April 2020 to 11 April 2020. 
On 16 March 2020, the trip was cancelled due to the ski resort closure. Although a refund for 
the trip couldnt be provided, the trip was permitted to be carried forward. Mr and Mrs B also 
booked ski lessons for their children at a cost of £1,501.50. These were non-refundable so 
they submitted a claim for the loss they incurred. 
Ageas reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said there was no cover for the situation that led to 
the cancellation of the trip under their policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the trip was cancelled when there 
was no Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) - formerly known Foreign 
and Commonwealth (FCO) - advice in place not to travel. For this reason, the cancellation 
claim wasnt covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy. She didnt think the claim had been 
declined unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
FCDO advice
On 16 March 2020, the UKs FCDO were not advising against travel to Mr and Mrs Bs 
intended destination.
This advice changed on 17 March 2020.  The FCDO advised against all but essential travel 
as a response to Covid-19. 
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy as this forms the 
basis of their travel insurance contract with Ageas. 
Page 5, section 3 Cancellation and Curtailment sets out the cover available in the event a 
trip is cancelled or curtailed. This says: 
2. We will pay up to the amount shown on the schedule following an event giving
rise to a claim under this insurance which occurs during the period of insurance
for any monies you have paid, or which you are contracted to pay, up to the final
invoice cost of the trip, (excluding the insurance premium), including the cost of
locally purchased services, in respect of your travel and accommodation costs
and other expenses, which are not recoverable elsewhere, but not exceeding the
amount shown in the schedule in total if you cancel or curtail all or part of your trip
following:
[]
(x) a warning issued by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that a country or
countries you had intended to travel to should be avoided or they have advised
against travel, provided this warning was issued after you booked insurance and
your trip...
Based on the above terms and conditions, there is cover for a cancelled trip if the FCDO 
advised against all but essential travel. In Mr and Mrs Bs case however, the trip was 
cancelled on 16 March 2020 and, at this point, there was no such advice in place and 
therefore theres no cover for their claim. Im satisfied therefore that Ageas hasnt declined 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs comments that the families who were due to travel with 
them, and had booked through the same provider, had their claims settled. I appreciate this 
is difficult to understand but we can only look at the individual circumstances of each 
complaint under its own merits. Circumstances and policies can vary even if theyre with the 
same provider. Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and I 
cant see that the claim has been declined unfairly. 
Overall, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I can ask Ageas to 
accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It follows that I dont require Ageas to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman