DRN-4323393
The complaint
Mr A complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant) poor repairs to his 
device, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A held a policy with Assurant. His mobile phone became damaged, and he made a claim. 
Assurant accepted the claim and carried out a repair. Mr A said that he experienced issues 
with the mobile phone following its repair and contacted Assurant. But he decided to take his 
phone to the phone manufacturer for further investigation and they confirmed that the parts 
used in the repair, were unbranded. 
Mr A complained to Assurant as he was unhappy with the standard of the repair (as he said 
the screen was flickering) and that non-genuine parts had been used. Mr A said that he 
wanted Assurant to repair the phone with genuine parts. He also wanted compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
In its final response, Assurant said that usually (where available) it used genuine parts to 
carry out repairs. But, the policy terms and conditions, allowed it to use unbranded parts, 
which were used in this repair. Also, as Mr A had said that the screen was faulty, it required 
Mr A to return the  phone for further investigation, which Mr A refused to do. So, it said that 
there was nothing further it could do here. 
Mr A was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He concluded 
that Assurant had carried out the repair in line with the policy terms and conditions. He said 
that Assurant had offered a warranty repair, which Mr A had refused. He recommended that 
Assurant pay Mr A £50 compensation for a loss of expectation, given that it had incorrectly 
advised Mr A that branded parts would be used, during a phone call. 
Assurant accepted the view, Mr A did not. Mr A said that following the poor repair his phone 
was not only worthless, but also not working correctly. He felt that Assurant had cheated him 
twice, given the misinformation that it gave him, that branded parts would be used, when 
clearly this wasnt the case. He remained unhappy, so asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding this complaint. Whilst I understand this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr A, I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments and evidence theyve provided. And having done so, 
I think the main issues of this complaint is whether Assurant were fair to apply the policy 
terms and conditions, in the repair of Mr As device. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, and I think its clear from this that the 
obligations that Assurant has (after accepting a damage claim) is to carry out a repair (or in 
some cases a replacement) of the policyholders device. 
Mr A said that his phone became damaged, and he made a claim under the policy. I can see 
that Assurant accepted the claim and carried out a repair. Mr A said that the repaired phone, 
developed further issues and Assurant advised him that a warranty repair would need to 
take place. But prior to this taking place, I note that Mr A took the phone to the phone 
manufacturer who confirmed that non-branded parts had been used in the repair. 
The policy terms and conditions permit Assurant to use non-branded parts: Repairs may be 
made using readily available parts, or we may provide refurbished products which may 
contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include 
unbranded parts. 
Mr A confirmed that he had a copy of the policy terms and conditions. And I do think that it 
would be his responsibility to ensure that the cover was suitable for his needs. I dont think 
the term is either unusual or ambiguous and confirms that unbranded parts may be used in a 
repair. 
I have listened to the call recording in which Mr A tells Assurant that there is an issue with 
the phone, following its repair. The advisor incorrectly told him that branded parts were used 
in the repair of his phone. But he also told Mr A, that even if branded parts were not used in 
the repair, the policy allows for unbranded parts to be used in repairs. So, I accept that by 
the agent telling Mr A that branded parts had been used in the repair, this was incorrect 
information. 
It seems that following on from this, Mr A took his phone to the phone manufacturer, and 
they confirmed that unbranded parts were used to carry out the repair. Mr A then complained 
to Assurant. 
Whilst I accept that Mr A was given incorrect information, Im not satisfied that Mr A needed 
to attend the phone manufacturer, given that he was told during the call that Assurant could 
use unbranded parts. 
Moreover, Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions, make it clear that unbranded 
parts can be used in the repair of devices. Consequently, I think that repairs can be 
conducted by using unbranded parts and Mr A, having agreed to the policy terms, didnt 
have an option to choose. So, I dont think Assurant were unfair or unreasonable to comply 
with the policy terms and conditions, when carrying out the repair. 
Im aware that Mr A remains unhappy with the quality of the repair. But Assurant has 
confirmed that the phone repair has a warranty applicable to it.  I note that it advised Mr A, 
that he must return the phone for it to investigate it further. Given that the phone is under 
warranty, and that Assurant had offered to carry out a warranty repair, I dont agree that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Assurant to request the return of the phone.  And I think its 
up to Mr A to return the phone for Assurant to carry out the further investigations, if he wants 
to. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Assurant complied with the policy terms and conditions, when it 
carried out the repair of Mr As phone. I do think that Mr A was given incorrect information regarding the use of branded parts and for this I do think he was inconvenienced. For this 
error, and as Assurant has agreed, I think it should pay compensation of £50, for the trouble 
and upset this caused. 
Putting things right
So, to put matters right, I direct Assurant as indicated below. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman