DRN-2495485
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that she had to pay a valuation fee to get some land valued she wanted to 
purchase using a loan facility from HSBC UK Bank Plc.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Ms R applied to HSBC for a loan to buy some agricultural land. 
For such applications, HSBC offered a service whereby a member of its staff carried out an 
internal valuation of the land without cost to the applicant. If that internal valuation gave a 
valuation figure high enough that HSBC was satisfied with the lending proposal then the 
money could be lent without needing a professional valuation to be carried out by a member 
of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). 
However, if that internal valuation didnt give a figure that was sufficient to allow the money 
to be lent, then a professional RICS valuation was needed; the cost of which is borne by the 
applicant.
Thats a major concession by HSBC as most lenders would always insist on a formal RICS 
valuation, which the applicant would have to pay for. HSBC didnt have to offer to try to 
reduce costs for its customers in this way, and the internal valuation cant be compared to a 
professional RICS valuation as the staff members who carry out the internal valuations arent 
RICS professionals.
Generally, the internal valuation figures come out on the more conservative side, as they are 
used as a risk-based tool rather than a true professional valuation of the land. 
Here Ms R wanted to borrow £70,000 to buy land for £100,000 (so she was putting down a 
£30,000 deposit). That is a 70% loan to value (LTV).
The land was valued internally at £73,500 which gave an LTV of 95%, which would be 
classed as high risk and would be outside HSBCs lending policy. So a RICS valuation was 
needed if the application was to proceed.
However if Ms R had only wanted to borrow £30,000 to buy the land for £100,000 (so she 
was putting down a £70,000 deposit), the land being valued internally for £73,500 wouldnt 
have mattered as that wouldnt have pushed it into being classed as high risk lending, and 
so it wouldnt have been outside of HSBCs lending policy.
For many applications this process works and saves the applicant the cost of a full RICS 
valuation, as the lending put forward is of a relatively modest loan to value. Unfortunately it 
wasnt able to be used here to save Ms R money.
As the internal valuation process isnt something HSBC has to offer then it would be highly 
inequitable for me to say it has to cover the cost of Ms Rs RICS valuation. If HSBC didnt 
offer that concession then the fee would always have been due, just as it would had Ms R 
applied to a different lender instead. Its unfortunate the internal valuation process wasnt 
able to save Ms R money but Im satisfied that wasnt due to any wrongdoing by HSBC. Its 
internal valuations arent carried out by RICS surveyors and, as I said, will be more 
conservative by nature as theyre a risk-based tool.
Having considered everything Im satisfied HSBC did nothing wrong here in telling Ms R 
shed need to pay for a full RICS valuation if she wanted to borrow the £70,000 that shed 
applied for.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman