DRN-3122203
The complaint
Mr C complains about what happened with HSBC UK Bank Plc when he asked it to close his
personal loan early.
What happened
Mr C said he made a payment to close his personal loan, and pay it off early. He paid what 
HSBC requested, but he then saw that his loan hadnt closed. He spoke to HSBC again, and 
it told him hed need to pay a further £40.35. So Mr C said he paid this, against his will. The 
loan was then closed, and he said HSBC gave him this payment back. But Mr C said it had 
deleted the original payment of £40.35 from his account. Mr C said HSBC had falsified his 
statement, and he didnt think that HSBCs payment of £50 was enough to make up for this.
HSBC said it was sorry, it had made a mistake when it told Mr C hed need to pay £40.35
more to close his loan. That same amount was actually due to him as a refund. So HSBC
said it had never actually taken any payment from Mr C, and thats why it didnt show on his
statements. It had credited him with £40.35, he was due a small refund from the interest on
the loan.
HSBC said it was sorry for the confusion around this, and it paid Mr C £50 to apologise.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there was no 
evidence that HSBC had taken £40.35 from Mr Cs account, and she could see that a credit 
was made for that amount. She thought HSBC had clearly made a mistake about how much 
money needed to be paid for the loan to close, because it had told Mr C he needed to pay 
an extra £40.35 when in fact he was going to get a refund for that amount. But she thought 
that HSBCs payment of £50 did provide fair and reasonable compensation for that.
Mr C was very angry. He said that hed seen the money come out of his account when he 
agreed to make the payment, and asked why HSBC had paid that amount back, if it hadnt 
taken this money from him?
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C says that what is key here is that HSBC took this money, then paid it back. But 
he says that HSBC has covered this up, and falsified his statements, by removing the 
debit transaction from his account.
I can hear, on the call that Mr C had with HSBC, that it said it was going to take this 
amount from his account. But I dont know if this payment of £40.35 was then actually 
taken from Mr Cs account, or not.
Banks can reverse transactions that they make, and sometimes that means those 
transactions wont show on a printed statement. But I dont agree with Mr C that this 
is key to this case, and I wouldnt agree that this is falsifying his statements.
I would have reached the same view on this complaint, whether or not HSBC actually 
took this payment and immediately reversed it, or never actually took that payment.
Id like to reassure Mr C that the £40.35 I can see HSBC paid into Mr Cs account on 
16 February isnt a refund of a payment that HSBC took earlier, then deleted from Mr 
Cs account.
I can be confident of this, because Mr Cs statements balance. Ive checked the 
running balance and the transactions for this period this myself, and there is no 
missing debit. So HSBC either didnt take this money after all, or it took it and paid it 
back immediately, so that neither of these two transactions would show up on Mr Cs 
account.
HSBC has explained that it did make a mistake. It gave Mr C a final settlement figure 
and told him his loan would close, but it didnt. Then it told Mr C that he had to pay a 
further £40.35, but it actually owed him this money. Thats why it paid Mr C £50 in 
compensation.
I understand that Mr C has found this a frustrating process, and I accept that HSBCs 
initial responses were unclear, but I think it has now provided an explanation, and 
paid compensation for its earlier mistakes. I think that HSBC has provided a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint, so I dont think it has to do any more. And, 
although I understand that Mr C will be disappointed by this, that means his 
complaint wouldnt be upheld. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt comment further.
Mr C did comment. He said that against his better judgment, he was going to accept the 
decision. He said his complaint was never about compensation but the incompetence and 
total lack of customer service from this bank. Mr C said he saw the money had been taken 
from his account, and HSBC was lying about that. Mr C also said HSBC never admitted to 
him that it had given him the wrong amount to pay off his loan, as Id said. Mr C told us he 
was fuming that HSBC had been allowed to get away with this. 
Mr C then wrote again, to say the question remains, how could HSBC refund money that it 
never took? Mr C said something didnt add up.
I set out in my provisional decision that it is possible for banks to take money, then reverse 
that transaction straight away, and this then sometimes doesnt show up on statements. So I 
said I didnt know whether thats what had happened here, HSBC took the payment then 
reversed it straight away, or whether HSBC never took the amount of £40.35 that it said it 
was going to take from Mr C. But I said I would have reached the same decision, whichever 
it was.I also said that the amount of £40.35 that HSBC gave Mr C is a refund of part of the money 
he paid to clear his loan. HSBC has accepted it made a mistake about how much he had to 
pay to close his loan, and its paid him £50 to make up for that. 
I still think this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman