DRN-4284656
The complaint
Mr T complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP) provided by 
Prudential.
Mr T is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
On 17 November 2022, IFM wrote to the CMC to acknowledge receipt of this complaint. So 
its aware of the matter. However, despite several chasers, it failed to provide a final 
response either accepting or rejecting this complaint. And, after referral to this service, it 
then failed to provide copies of contemporaneous documents to enable us to investigate the 
matter. Therefore, this final decision is based solely on Mr Ts recollection and information 
provided by Prudential and the BSPS.
What happened
Mr T built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata 
Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr T had built up about 32 years pensionable service in the BSPS during two 
separate periods of service between 1985 and 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the BSPS offered a total 
transfer value of £372,107.57 in respect of both periods of Mr Ts pensionable 
service)
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack 
being issued to members, including Mr T, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail 
about the three options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr T contacted IFM for advice on his options. He told us his circumstances at that time were 
as follows:
He and his wife were both aged 50 and in good health. They didnt have any children 
or anyone financially dependent on them;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£29,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future. 
His wife was employed and was paid gross annual income of about £12,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at about £100,000. They didnt have 
any other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised an outstanding mortgage of about £45,000 on the marital 
home, the monthly cost of which was £400. They had some unsecured debt including 
a credit card with an outstanding balance of about £1,000 and a personal loan;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of at least 
£1,000 available every month;
His wife didnt have any private pension arrangements; 
He was an inexperienced and cautious investor; and
He had an aspiration to retire from age 60
IFM advised Mr T to accept the aggregated transfer values offered by the BSPS and to 
transfer into a new PPP provided by Prudential. The Prudential has provided evidence to this 
service that confirms the following:
On 6 November 2017, it received two separate transfer values from the BSPS 
totaling £372,107.57;
The PPP was invested 70% in the PruFund Growth fund and 30% in the PruFund 
Cautious fund;
The annual product and investment charges amount to 1.00% of the PPP fund value;
Mr T nominated his wife to receive 100% of any death benefit;
IFM was the advising firm that set up the PPP and facilitated the pension transfer 
from the BSPS. It was paid an initial advice fee of £5,000. In addition, it was to be 
paid an ongoing advice charge of 0.4%. The advice charges were deducted from the 
PPP fund value; and
A statement dated 3 November 2017 on IFM headed paper that it advised Mr T to 
transfer away from the BSPS to convert his safeguarded benefits into flexible 
benefits (the Part 4A statement)
Following the pension transfer, Mr T transferred the value of his PPP to a different provider.
This complaintDuring 2022, the CMC, on behalf of Mr T, complained to IFM about the suitability of its 
pension transfer advice. In its view, the pension transfer advice was unsuitable and had 
caused him to suffer a financial loss.
IFM acknowledged receipt of this complaint but then failed to provide a final response letter 
either accepting or rejecting it. So the CMC referred the matter to this service. 
In July 2023, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. This was because he hadnt seen any evidence that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Ts best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought suitable 
advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr T transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that IFM pay Mr T £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr T, accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a 
response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding on whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
IFMs response to this complaint
The evidence Ive seen clearly shows that IFM advised Mr T to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP provided by Prudential. Theres no dispute about 
this. IFM is therefore responsible for the suitability of the pension transfer advice about which 
Mr T has complained.
As noted above, IFM acknowledged receipt of this complaint but then failed to provide a final 
response letter or provide to this service copies of any available contemporaneous 
documents. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive decided that IFM has had 
sufficient time to respond and provide any additional comments or evidence for me to 
consider. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that I have sufficient information to 
be able to decide this complaint in line with DISP 3.5.9R and 3.5.14R.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr T were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R. In addition, COBS 9.5.2R required 
IFM to retain its records relating to suitability indefinitely if it related to a pension transfer, as 
it did in Mr Ts case. A key record relating to suitability is the suitability report which is 
intended to set out the reasons for the recommendation.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr T, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ts situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr T wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS in its Time to Choose 
communication pack.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr T. The PPF was designed to provide 
members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was designed to 
provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried members 
who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for 
the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for 
married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to the 
scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP at a 
later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the PPP option would be 
dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity rates available at 
retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr T based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Ts best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence available, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs 
pension transfer advice to Mr T was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
Mr Ts wife didnt have any private pension arrangements. So I think its fair to say 
that both of them would be heavily reliant on the value of Mr Ts safeguarded benefits 
in the BSPS to provide a secure source of retirement income before they started 
drawing their state pensions;
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ts safeguarded benefits, accounting for about 32 years pensionable 
service between 1985 and 2017, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited 
other assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the 
lack of other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr T was likely to be heavily 
reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. In my 
view, Mr T had a very limited capacity for loss. So I think it was important not to 
expose the value of his safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating generic 
objectives such as flexibility, control and maximisation of death benefits as a high 
priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a clearly 
suitable reason to do so;
Theres no evidence that IFM provided a suitability report to Mr T. So its unclear to 
me why IFM recommended a transfer to a PPP in favour of the PPF and BSPS2 
options. IFMs inability to locate and provide to this service copies of relevant 
suitability-related documents is concerning since it had a regulatory obligation under 
COBS 9.5.2R to retain records relating to pension transfer advice indefinitely; 
Mr T doesnt recall the detail of the discussions he had with IFMs adviser including 
the reasons why the adviser recommended a transfer to a PPP in favour of the 
alternative options. But he does recall that he had an aspiration to retire from age 60 
 so I think its likely this was the primary motivating factor for the pension transfer. 
Mr T was then aged 50 and so couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the 
earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such a time frame until pension benefits 
could be accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake 
of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify;
Clearly, given Mr Ts age, the basis of the advice wasnt to enable him to retire 
immediately but instead at some indeterminate point in the future. The further away 
from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure 
and whether early retirement would in fact be possible. I think it wouldve been 
difficult to calculate an accurate income figure with the time frame to age 60. Theres 
no evidence that IFM recorded Mr Ts target retirement income need when it advised 
him. Without understanding his retirement income need, I cannot see how IFM was 
able to clearly demonstrate that transferring to a PPP at that time was in Mr Ts best 
interests;
Theres no evidence IFM obtained the necessary information relating to Mr Ts 
financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure during retirement 
when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer to a PPP. It may well have 
been the case that Mr Ts retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 
but theres no evidence IFM established this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient 
evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Ts best interests to transfer at that time to 
achieve his early retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than 
age 65;
Mr T described himself as an inexperienced and cautious investor. He didnt have 
any savings or investments at the time of IFMs advice that would indicate he had 
experience of investing. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me Mr T 
understood the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with his 
safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to a PPP. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cannot 
see that there was any compelling reason for Mr T to take on those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr T to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 50; 
Mr T had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
The pension transfer led to Mr T having access to flexible benefits. Flexibility and 
control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr T had any concrete need for it. 
Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced investor to relinquish 
the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in exchange for more risk 
so that he could access flexible benefits several years in the future. Theres no real 
evidence that Mr T required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income 
during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve been met 
by the tax-free cash under the BSPS2; 
In addition, Mr T and his wife had surplus disposable income of at least £1,000 
available every month. Theres no evidence that IFM considered saving some of 
these additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide 
flexible income or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
Mr T didnt have any health issues at the time IFM advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his wife. So Im not 
convinced there was any real merit in him transferring to a PPP at that time to 
provide a lump sum death benefit at the cost of losing valuable benefit guarantees; 
and
Theres no evidence that IFM obtained a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report 
based on Mr Ts specific circumstances in line with COBS 19.1.2R. So its unclear 
whether there was a reasonable prospect that Mr T would be better off transferring to 
a PPP. Without evidence of a TVAS report its difficult to conclude that a pension 
transfer was clearly in Mr Ts best interests.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the evidence available supports the position that the pension transfer 
was clearly demonstrated to be in Mr Ts best interests and therefore suitable. I havent seen 
that there were any sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish valuable benefit 
guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his age, good state of 
health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr T couldnt 
financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr T gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr T wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would now 
be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that he told us he had an aspiration to retire at 
age 60. However, he was about 10 years away from that target retirement age when IFM 
advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can change over such a long 
period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that 
supports the position Mr T wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved taking a regular income at age 60. And Im not convinced it could be reasonably determined 
at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr T. And so I think, given his age 
and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better 
option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would 
provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of 
entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the 
BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the CMC, on behalf of Mr T, and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr T accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. In addition, IFM should pay Mr T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr T the balance. 
If Mr T accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr T can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want 
to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman