DRN-3401243
The complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide Building Society will not refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only 
an overview of the key facts here. 
In June 2020, Ms F made two payments of €1,350 to an overseas bank account to secure 
rental accommodation abroad. After making the second payment, Ms F noticed a change in 
the emails she received from the purported owner. She explains she became concerned 
something wasnt right as the emails had warnings that they could be scam or phishing 
messages. 
On 12 June 2020, Ms F sent a secure message to Nationwide. She wasnt sure whether she 
was dealing with a fraudster or not at this point but outlined her concerns to the building 
society. Ms F explains Nationwide were slow to respond and that she had difficulty getting in 
touch with the right department at Nationwide as she was abroad at the time. 
In the interim, the owner had promised Ms F a refund that never materialised, then stopped 
corresponding with her. Concluding that shed been duped and still waiting for Nationwide to 
get in touch with her, she made a complaint.
Nationwide issued its final response on 26 July 2020. It said the transactions dont fall into 
fraud or SEPA recovery but also that the CPR team have set up the recovery requests 
now. It was sorry it had not done this when Ms F first raised concerns in June. It apologised 
for not calling Ms F back when it said it would but then said it would not have been possible 
for the building society to have called her in any case. It paid Ms F £75 compensation to 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
In January 2021, Ms F submitted a complaint to this service. She explained that shed had 
no further contact from Nationwide since the final response letter and had received no 
update on any potential recovery of the funds. She explained that she had been hoping 
something miraculous would happen but instead it felt like Nationwide had washed their 
hands of the situation. She felt if Nationwide had responded properly by contacting her and 
acting sooner, she would have been able to get her money back.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the 
transactions Ms F made would have appeared suspicious to Nationwide at the time she was 
making them as they didnt stand out based on the way she typically ran her account. He 
agreed Nationwide should have acted quicker than it did to see if any funds remained. He 
noted that Nationwide didnt receive any response from the beneficiary bank and tried to 
contact it himself. In the absence of a response, he concluded on balance that the 
beneficiary bank would still not have responded to Nationwide if it had sent the request 
sooner. He explained that fraudsters tend to move funds on very quickly once received. He 
thought the compensation Nationwide had offered was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ms F was disappointed. She said she was unsure how vociferously Nationwide had 
attempted to contact the beneficiary bank, explaining that she had not been provided with 
any evidence of when and how it had tried to make contact. She suggested that she did not 
spend this amount of money on a regular basis so disagreed that it should be considered 
normal account activity. She felt that Nationwide should have acted sooner, and it might 
have altered the outcome had it done so. She felt the Investigators position reached on the 
balance of probability was akin to throwing dice. Whilst she realised the money has 
probably now gone, she asked for the matter to be reviewed again by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms F and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. 
But having thought very carefully about Nationwides actions, I think it did act fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the payments to be made. Im also not persuaded that Nationwides 
delay resulted in a lost opportunity to recover funds from the beneficiary bank. This means 
theres no basis on which I can fairly say that Nationwide should reimburse Ms F with the 
money she lost or offer any further compensation. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Ms F made these payments, 
she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with a fraudster. But that 
alone doesnt mean that Nationwide should refund her loss. 
The starting position in law is that Ms L is responsible for all payments out of her account 
that she authorises. This is set out in the Payment service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). And it 
applies even where a customer has been tricked into making a payment under false 
pretences, as was the case here.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
In this case, the first thing I need to decide is whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Ms F when it processed two international payments of €1,350 each.
Ive thought about whether the payments Ms F made were out of character and unusual 
enough so that Nationwide ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect banks and building societies to check each one. Ms F has said it 
wasnt normal for her to be spending €2,700 on a regular basis. But I dont think Ms Fs 
activity in early June should have given Nationwide cause for wider concern. I dont think the 
two payments stood out enough that Nationwide should have been concerned that Ms F was 
at risk of harm from fraud. 
Having looked at Ms Fs account statements, I can see that she did occasionally make 
payments in other currencies. In addition, she had made transfers for around the same sorts 
of amounts in the recent past when paying her credit cards. The two payments did not 
rapidly drain the balance of Ms Fs account and they did not leave her without the money to 
meet her day to day expenses. As a result, I dont think the payments would have stood out 
enough to have been uncharacteristic and I dont think Nationwide missed a clear 
opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. This means Nationwide did not do anything 
wrong by following the instructions Ms F gave and sending the money without further 
checks.
As I dont think Nationwide acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it should have refunded Ms F for any other reason, including consideration 
of whether Nationwide did what it shouldve done once Ms F alerted it to potential problems 
with the emails.
For me to be able to fairly ask Nationwide to refund the money to Ms F, Id need to be 
satisfied that Nationwide should have acted to try and recover the money sooner and that it 
would have made a difference to the situation Ms F now finds herself in.
Nationwide accepts that action to try and recover the funds should have been started 
sooner. Whilst it is clear that Nationwide handled things poorly, I am not persuaded that its 
delay caused Ms F to lose out on the opportunity to recover the money shed sent. 
Ms F says there is a possibility that she might have received a different outcome if 
Nationwide had done more and suggested making a decision on balance was like a roll of 
the dice. But where evidence is incomplete, I must make my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say, what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And this is 
relevant here, given that the beneficiary bank did not engage with Nationwide or this service 
when we tried to establish the fate of the funds. 
I dont consider it is more likely than not that the correct action from Nationwide at the time 
the potential scam was first identified would have led to Ms F recovering her money. 
I believe, on balance, it is more likely than not the money would have already been taken 
and would be irrecoverable as a result. I say as much because its now clear Ms F was the 
victim of a scam. And so it seems very unlikely that the proceeds would be kept in the 
recipient account for any length of time. To do so would mean the risk of them being 
returned to the sender, on discovery of the scam. Indeed, in this services experience, funds 
are removed almost immediately. 
It follows then that the likelihood of any funds still being available to recover even at the time 
Ms F first raised concerns was very small. It is disappointing that the international bank did 
not respond to Nationwide or this service. I can appreciate why Ms F was hoping funds 
would be recovered as she had not been told anything to the contrary. But international 
banks arent bound by the same rules and good practice that UK regulated financial service 
providers are. Im satisfied that Nationwide has now done all it can to try and recover the 
money that was sent. 
I do think Nationwide ought to have explained things much more clearly. Its final response letter was full of jargon and Ms F was expecting there to be some follow up to the complaint 
to let her know the fate of the funds. Whilst I dont believe Nationwide handled Ms Fs scam 
claim or the subsequent complaint well, I cant say it must refund some or all of her loss as a 
result. I say this because I dont think the outcome would have been any different if 
Nationwide had been clearer and its general poor handling isnt enough for me to uphold the 
complaint.
There is no doubt that Ms F has been the victim of a cruel scam and that the fraudster had 
no intention of providing the accommodation she had paid for. Its unfair that she has lost 
out. But I am only able to consider whether Nationwide can fairly be held liable for her loss. 
After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say that Nationwides actions have 
caused Ms F to lose the money. I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Ms F. But 
it brings to an end what we can do in this situation. For the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
fairly or reasonably require Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman