DRN-3964327
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, insured through Admiral. 
He booked a trip abroad as part of a group, which included accommodation and boat hire. 
There wasnt a direct flight to his destination, so he booked flights with an airline to fly from 
the UK and then get a connecting flight abroad to his final destination. The day before he 
was due to depart, Mr K was contacted by the airline to say that the connecting flight abroad 
had been cancelled due to a pilots strike. 
Attempts were made to find alternative ways to travel to the destination from the connecting 
flight departure point but no other options were suitable. As a result, Mr K cancelled all the 
travel arrangements and made a claim to Admiral for his proportion of the unused package 
trip.
Admiral declined his claim. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for any claims relating 
to onward or connecting flights. As it was the connecting flight which was cancelled, not the 
flight from the UK, Admiral said the claim wouldnt be covered. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr K complained to Admiral and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
found that the policy didnt provide cover for claims relating to connecting flights so he didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator. He said that it wasnt made clear to him that this 
wouldnt be covered by the policy. He also said that another member of the party had been 
able to make a successful claim with Admiral for this same scenario so he felt he should also 
have his claim paid. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr K decided to abandon his trip following a delay to his connecting flight abroad. The policy 
wording does include a section for abandonment  Section 5: Delayed or Missed Departure. 
Under this section it includes the following:
Abandoned international departure (outbound journey only)
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if you decide to 
abandon your trip because he departure of your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is 
delayed by more than 24 hours (or cancelled with no alternative transport available 
within 24 hours of the scheduled departure), because of strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather conditions or a mechanical breakdown.
Within this section there is a list of things that are not covered, and this includes the 
following;
We will not pay any claim:
For missed international departure caused by a failure or delay to a connecting 
flight
The policy also includes a section called Important information at the beginning of the 
booklet. Within this section it says:
Connecting flights
We will only provide cover for the first part of your outward and final part of your 
return journey of your trip. No cover is provided under Section 4: Delay and Missed 
Departure for any claims relating to onward/connecting flights.
Im aware that the above refers to Section 4: Delay and Missed Departure, which is 
incorrect as it should be section 5. This is clearly a typing error in the policy wording  Im 
persuaded it is sufficiently clear that it is intended to refer to the Delay and Missed Departure 
section as detailed in the policy.
When purchasing the insurance, Mr K was also provided with a document called the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). The IPID provides a summary of the key 
features of the policy and any relevant exclusions. It includes the following:
What is insured?
Travel Delay or Abandonment: £25 for each 12 hours you are delayed, up to 
£250 or up to £1,000 if you decide to abandon your trip following a delay of more 
than 24 hours.
What is not insured?
Travel Delay: for delays lasting less than 12 hours or for any flights other than the 
first international departure from the UK or the final flight returning you to the UK.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Having looked at all the information provided in the policy wording and IPID I can see that 
there is cover for abandoned trips if there is a delay in excess of 24 hours due to strikes. 
However, the policy excludes claims where it is the connecting flight which is delayed. From 
what I can see the flight from the UK wasnt delayed or cancelled, but it was the connecting flight to Mr Ks final destination which was impacted. Im satisfied that there is no cover for 
this claim under this section of the policy. 
Mr K has said that all his flights to the final destination were with one airline and purchased 
as one ticket. I accept that his travel arrangements were made as one booking, but this 
doesnt alter the fact that his flight from the UK wasnt affected by the strike. It was the strike 
in the country he was travelling to and the domestic flight there that was cancelled. So, I 
dont think how the ticket was purchased impacts the claim outcome.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there were any other sections 
which would consider Mr Ks claim, but the circumstances he found himself in dont appear 
to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into account, I 
dont think Mr Ks claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor are there 
reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Admiral to accept this claim.
 
When responding to our investigators view, Mr K said that the information about excluding 
connecting flights wasnt made clear to him and therefore it is unfair for Admiral to decline 
his claim. Ive noted his comments and Ive carefully considered this point. The IPID refers 
specifically to travel delay as the first international flight from the UK. The cover for 
abandonment is following a travel delay in excess of 24 hours so I think this document 
makes it clear that connecting flights outside the UK wont be considered in these 
circumstances. And turning to the policy wording, the important information section 
alongside the exclusions under section 5, also states that connecting flights are excluded. 
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The 
events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Im satisfied that Admiral has done enough to make Mr K aware of the restrictions 
to this cover in relation to connecting flights. So, this point doesnt make a difference to my 
outcome.
Mr K has told us that he is aware another traveller in his party has received payment for his 
claim from Admiral. So, he doesnt think it is fair that Admiral hasnt done the same for his 
claim. Whilst I appreciate his comments, complaints are considered on their own individual 
merits, based on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made to this service 
relates to the rejection of the claim he has made to Admiral and, based on the information 
and evidence supplied in support of this complaint, I think Admiral has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner when declining this claim. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman