DRN-3074939
The complaint
Mr S complains Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly settled his claim, and provided a poor level of 
service.
What happened
Mr S travelled abroad, and unfortunately while he was away, some of his personal 
belongings were stolen. So, Mr S made a claim against his travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Zurich. 
Mr S said there were delays and mistakes made by Zurich in handling his claim, and it didnt 
properly inform him of the outcome. He also said the mistakes caused him to think his claim 
may not have been assessed correctly. And he complained. 
Zurich said it had settled the claim correctly in line with the limits on Mr S policy, but there 
had been delays in processing the claim. It said this was partly due to the volume of claims it 
had been receiving due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But it also said it had asked Mr S for 
information he had already provided by mistake. And it said when it paid the settlement 
amount into Mr S bank account, it didnt send him a letter to explain what had been paid. 
Zurich apologised for the delays and mistakes and offered £50 due to the inconvenience 
caused.
Unhappy with the response from Zurich, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they thought the claim had been 
settled in line with the policy limits. And although they agreed Zurich had done something 
wrong, they thought the compensation and apology offered was enough to put things right. 
Zurich made no further comments on the investigators view. However Mr S disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Zurich has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having reviewed the terms of the policy around personal possessions, Im satisfied that Mr 
S claim has been settled fairly. Zurich settled the claim for the majority of Mr Ss stolen 
items in full, applying a percentage reduction for wear and tear where applicable and in line 
with the terms. And after Mr S queried the claim for his charger cable, Zurich paid this. And it 
provided a breakdown for the rest for the claim.
I can appreciate Mr S was unhappy with the amount he was paid in respect of his stolen 
gadgets, as they had a high value. However, his policy had a limit of £250 for gadgets, and 
this is the amount Zurich paid. So I dont think this was unreasonable. The policy also states 
there is a £75 excess applicable to claims under the personal possessions cover, so Zurich 
was entitled to deduct this from the settlement.
Zurich has accepted it caused delays and made mistakes when dealing with Mr S claim. 
And it has apologised for this, and offered a payment of £50. 
Mr S made his claim at the start of August 2020, and Zurich made its first settlement 
payment at the end of September. And it followed this up with a second payment around two 
weeks later, after Ms S queried the settlement for one of his items. Im not persuaded that 
this was an excessive delay, especially given the circumstances Zurich has explained 
around the increase in claims driven by the Covid-19 pandemic, which I think were beyond 
its control. 
Zurich has accepted that it made mistakes in the claims handling process. And Mr S is 
dissatisfied with the apology and £50 Zurich has offered in respect of the inconvenience it 
caused. So Ive considered the impact Zurichs mistakes had on Mr S, to assess whether or 
not the offer is fair. 
Zurich asked Mr S to provide information it had already received, so Mr S had to make 
further contact, and he had to query the settlement payment and whether this was correct. I 
appreciate this caused inconvenience to Mr S, and that he had to make additional contact 
with Zurich for this to be resolved. But I note that Zurich resolved these issues promptly, 
once Mr S made it aware of the mistakes.
I should explain that our role is not to punish businesses, so we do not make compensation 
awards to act as deterrents. And as nothing Ive seen leads me to think that Zurich caused a 
more significant level of distress and inconvenience to Mr S, I think its offer fairly reflects the 
impact. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Zurich Insurance PLCs offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this case. So I direct Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mr S £50, if it has 
not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman