DRN-3411846
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr T received a £60 bank transfer into his Santander account. Ten days 
later, the sending bank submitted a fraud report, saying Mr T had sold their customer a 
purse on Gumtree, but had not sent the goods, even when chased.
Santander investigated things with Mr T. Mr T told them hed sent the goods, but had not 
asked for any receipt or proof of postage as it was only his first time selling things. He said 
hed texted the buyer on a well-known messaging app, and he would provide a copy of the 
message history to evidence his side of the story. But later, he said the buyer had blocked 
him and it had caused all the messages to get deleted. 
As Santander had received an official fraud report, and their customer had not been able to 
provide any evidence of entitlement to the funds, they gave Mr T notice theyd close his 
account, and they registered a marker against him on CIFAS.
In 2021, Mr T came to our service. He said the payment hed received was for a t-shirt hed 
sold on Depop. He explained his account was closed because the buyer had used fraudulent 
funds, and suggested the buyer had lied to get a refund. He said he had got proof of postage 
at the time, but had since lost it. He said he could not provide any evidence from the selling 
platform, because once his bank account was closed he couldnt use the platform anymore 
and so he no longer had access.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr T had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Santander did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
I think Santander acted appropriately by checking things with Mr T at the time and giving him 
more than one chance to evidence his side of things. It looks like it was made clear what 
evidence they needed, and what they asked Mr T for should have been easy to provide. And 
given that theyd received an official fraud notification from another major bank, I think 
Santander had reasonable grounds to look into this.
Mr T hasnt been able to provide any evidence at all to show that he was entitled to this 
money. And Im afraid I dont find some of his reasons to be plausible.
Most notably, Mr T says that when the buyer blocked him on the messaging app, it caused 
all their message history to get deleted. But thats not how that app works. Blocking 
someone only prevents them from sending you future messages, it doesnt delete past 
messages. Mr T later claimed the buyer must have deleted the history, but again thats not 
how it works. In one-on-one conversations, you can only delete the message history on your 
own phone, not someone elses. So theres no plausible way that the buyer was able to 
erase the message history on Mr Ts phone. That really only leaves two likely possibilities: 
that Mr T deleted the messages on his phone himself, or that he still has them but has 
declined to provide them. Either way, it means that his testimony is not correct, and that Mr T 
has withheld key evidence  despite the fact that, if Mr T were in the right, that evidence 
would only help support him.
Indeed, Mr Ts testimony has been inconsistent in other places. For instance, Mr T told 
Santander hed never got proof of postage, but told us he had got proof of postage but later 
lost it. He told Santander the sale was for a purse on Gumtree, but told us it was for a t-shirt 
on Depop. Mr T later said he must have got things mixed up because hed made so many 
sales. But hed also said that this was his first sale, and that after his account was closed he 
didnt use the selling platform anymore. And I can see he didnt receive any other money 
from such sales in the months before his account was closed.
I do appreciate that the events happened over two and a half years ago now, and that 
memories can fade over time. But these inconsistencies are significant.
In summary, Santander received an official fraud report from another institution and carried 
out an appropriate investigation. Mr T was unable to provide any evidence to substantiate 
his side of the story or show his entitlement to the funds, even when that evidence should 
have been easy to provide, and even when hes not had a plausible reason for not having 
such evidence. Mr T appears to have withheld key evidence. Mr Ts testimony has been 
inconsistent, unreliable, and at points not plausibly true. And Ive not seen anything to 
substantiate that Mr T actually sent the goods, or that the buyer was acting in bad faith as 
Mr T has claimed.
So taking everything into account, I can only reasonably conclude that Santander were not 
wrong to add this marker. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Mr T to receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, 
Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
It follows that I also dont think Santander did anything wrong in closing the account. They 
were allowed to do this under the terms and conditions.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman