DRN-3162005
The complaint
Mr K complains TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr K applied for, and was given a loan for £4,000, which was repayable over a 
period of 48 months. The repayments were around £170 a month, and in total Mr K agreed 
to pay back just over £8,100 over the four years, once interest was added.
Mr K struggled to make the loan repayments and in February 2018, TFS Loans obtained a 
court order demanding he repay the loan in full.
Mr K says TFS Loans shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. He 
thinks that with better checks, TFS Loans ought to have seen he had a gambling problem, 
seen he had existing county court judgements and seen he had recently missed repayments 
on other credit accounts.
TFS Loans says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Mr K did have enough 
disposable income to make the loan repayments. TFS explains it carried out an income and 
expenditure assessment with Mr K and asked him for three months of payslips or bank 
statements to confirm his income  he gave a bank statement. It says it also checked Mr Ks 
credit file before agreeing to lend the money to him and this showed mostly historic 
problems, with only one default registered in the last two years. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. TFS Loans didnt agree so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. Ive not seen that the court examined 
the decision to lend to Mr K and so I see no reason for this service not to consider this 
complaint. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint. 
TFS Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr K 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr K would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
TFS Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree with the 
investigator that given the amount of money Mr K was borrowing, the information he had 
provided about his income and expenditure, together with the information on his credit file, 
TFS Loans checks werent good enough. For example, TFS Loans didnt explore a 
five-week gap in Mr Ks salary credit on the bank statement he gave to confirm his income. 
Mr K told TFS Loans during his application that he had taken one-weeks unpaid leave  not 
five. But because the average of his salary credits showing on the bank statements was 
enough for TFS to say the loan was affordable, it didnt consider this further.
Mr K ran two bank accounts and had switched his salary credit between the accounts before 
switching back a month before applying for this loan. The five-week gap in salary credits 
showing on the bank statement he gave TFS Loans covered the time he had switched his 
salary credit to his other account. Given he switched back only a month before, I think it 
reasonable for Mr K to have shared this information when TFS Loans mentioned a shortfall 
in his income that month  but he didnt. Likewise, as the statements in TFS Loans 
possession showed significant  by number and amount  transfers in from Mr Ks other 
account, I think this ought to have prompted further questions.
I appreciate that Mr K is likely to think that because Ive found there were shortcomings in 
TFS Loans checks, it follows that his complaint should succeed. But I need to go on to 
consider what position Mr K is likely to have been in, if TFS Loans had done what they 
should have  ie would proportionate checks have shown TFS Loans shouldnt have given 
Mr K the loan? 
As Ive mentioned, TFS failed to explore a five-week gap in Mr Ks salary credit on the bank 
statement he gave to confirm his income. Instead, it used the average of the total payments 
over the three-month duration. This it calculated at around £1,810 a month and less than the 
£2,200 pay Mr K had declared in his application. Mr K has given us the statement for his 
other account which show the five-weeks missing salary credits. If I follow the same 
approach as TFS Loans did in calculating Mr Ks average monthly pay but including these 
five-weeks salary credits, I arrive at a figure of around £2,470. So, I dont think Mr K has lost 
out by TFS Loans not looking more closely at his income.
I note that in his complaint to TFS Loans, Mr K mentions he had a gambling problem. Ive 
seen from the statements for his other account (not shared with TFS Loans during the 
application) that over ten days in March 2016, Mr K spent more on gambling than he earnt 
that month. Ive also seen a more modest gambling transaction at the end of that month. But 
apart from these, Ive not seen further transactions on either account between February and 
May 2016 when Mr K applied for the loan.
I cant ignore that TFS Loans didnt have sight at the time of this set of statements for Mr Ks 
second account, or that Mr K didnt volunteer them when  albeit briefly  he was questioned 
about his reduced salary payment for that month. Had TFS Loans asked further questions 
about the five-week gap in Mr Ks salary credit, its not given that he would have presented 
these statements showing his gambling. For example, he could have produced duplicate 
payslips instead. So, I dont think its fair to say TFS Loans acted irresponsibly in granting 
Mr K a loan, given it was unaware of and proportionate checks might not have shown his 
gambling problem.
Mr K also mentioned he had existing county court judgements and he had recently missed 
repayments on other credit accounts. TFS Loans check of Mr Ks credit file did show these  
it showed:
county court judgement 1  £1,195  Apr-13
county court judgement 2  £325  Aug-13
default credit card account  £1,325  Oct-15
default home credit account  £664  Jun-11
default communications account  £37  Jan-12
default current account  £1,000  May-12
default current account  £1,707  Dec-10
default current account  £898  May-11
default current account  £67  Jun-12
default current account  £514  Jul-13
arrears home credit account  £316  active
total debt  £8,084As part of TFS Loans income and expenditure assessment, it included £40 towards Mr Ks 
credit card account which defaulted in October 2015. It didnt consider the remaining 
defaulted accounts relevant because the defaults happened more than two years earlier. It 
also didnt allow for payments to the county court judgements.
I think Mr K couldve been asked to repay all these debts during the term of his new loan. 
So, I think TFS Loans ought to have taken account what Mr K might have needed to pay to 
clear the debts within a reasonable timescale as part of its income and expenditure 
assessment. I estimate he would have needed to pay around £560 a month with all bar the 
two largest debts being repaid within the first 12 months of the new loan term. Noting Mr Ks 
actual average monthly salary, I think he could still afford to take on the new loan 
commitment and repay his existing debts. I dont think TFS Loans including the repayments 
towards Mr Ks existing debts in its income and expenditure assessment wouldve meant it 
shouldnt have lent to him. I think it still wouldve left Mr K with enough income at his 
disposal.
Mr K told TFS Loans during the income and expenditure assessment that he lived with his 
parents and paid £50 a week (£216 monthly) board. Mr K told this service that he lived 
elsewhere with his partner. He gave us copies of his council tax bills and evidence of his 
housing association tenancy to support this. I note the council tax was registered in both his 
and his partners name. Putting to one side the obvious disparity between the information 
Mr K told TFS Loans and the evidence he now submits, Ive scrutinised his bank statements 
 for both his accounts  but Ive not seen regular payments towards either the council tax or 
the housing association. I did see a payment to his partner for £180 with the reference Bills 
and I can only assume that was Mr Ks monthly contribution. Again, I think had TFS Loans 
included this payment in its income and expenditure assessment, it also wouldve left Mr K 
with enough income at his disposal.
For reasons Ive already explained, while I think TFS Loans could have done more  at the 
time of the application  to satisfy itself Mr K was able to sustainably repay this loan, 
reviewing all the information we have about Mr Ks circumstances from that time shows if 
proportionate checks had been carried out by TFS Loans, it would still have been 
reasonable to lend to him at that time.
Responses to my provisional decision
TFS Loans acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but it didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr K disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, he does not agree that with better 
checks, it still would have been reasonable for TFS Loans to conclude he could afford to 
sustainably repay the loan. He says that I hadn't taken account of him having to provide for 
two dependants and cover the rent for a property on his salary alone. He believes that with 
proper checks, TFS Loans ought to have seen that he had to pay £130 per week rent, 
around £40 per week council tax around £25 per week for gas and electricity as well as food 
for a family of four and travel to and from work. He has supplied a schedule of payments 
which he says shows cash payments towards his rent.
Mr K also thinks TFS Loans should have spotted that he was not listed on the voters roll at 
his parents address, which he had given as his residential address. He has provided a 
screenshot showing another lender report to a credit reference agency his address from 
February 2016 as being the address he rented. Mr K points out that although the council tax 
was in joint names, he was responsible for paying it and other household bills in full as his 
partner had not long given birth to their second child and was not working. Lastly, Mr K also points out that the account he used whilst gambling went around £2,800 overdrawn a couple 
of weeks before he applied for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending on our website. Having taken this into account along with everything else I need to 
consider, including the responses to my provisional decision, my decision remains 
unchanged and Im not upholding this complaint.
There are several questions I consider when I look at complaints about whether a lender has 
acted fairly and reasonably before agreeing to lend. I look out for signs that suggest the 
lending was likely to have been unsustainable and unaffordable for the borrower, in this case 
Mr K. But its important to add here that, even if I now find such signs when I look into the 
complaint, they dont automatically mean the lender did something wrong when it lent. 
Before I can come to that conclusion, I must determine whether the lender knew or ought 
reasonably to have known that the lending was likely to have been unsustainable and 
unaffordable. And to do that, I have also to decide whether TFS Loans carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, having looked at the checks carried out by TFS 
Loans before it agreed to lend, I dont think they were reasonable and proportionate. Given 
the size and length of the lending along with what the business knew about Mr K, there were 
unanswered questions about his income that it needed to answer to ensure that he could 
repay the borrowing sustainably. But, as Ive said, that doesnt automatically mean the 
business did something wrong when it agreed to lend. So, I have looked at what TFS Loans 
would have discovered if it had carried out more detailed checks.
Mr K has presented information about his financial circumstances at the time of applying for 
his loan which is markedly different to the information he gave to TFS Loans. This deals 
mainly with his domestic situation and expenditure, rather than his income. 
Mr K believes that TFS Loans ought to have spotted from a voters roll check that he wasnt 
living with his parents at the address given during his application. Ive seen that TFS Loans 
did check the voters roll as part of its wider credit reference agency search  and Im 
satisfied Mr K has seen this information as he gave us a copy of the search when he first 
referred this complaint to us. The voters roll search showed Mr K was registered to vote at 
the address he gave when he applied for the loan. The credit reference agency search also 
shows 20 lines of credit were linked to Mr K at this, his parents address and a further eight 
searches in his name had been logged at the address in the last year.
I accept that the address Mr K is now saying was where he lived at the time (and has 
presented a screenshot showing a link to it from February 2016) also appeared as a linked 
address on the credit reference agency search, with one line of credit showing in Mr Ks 
name. And arguably, TFS Loans could have asked Mr K why that was. Mr K even made a 
fleeting reference to the wifes address during the call with TFS Loans whilst discussing his 
expenses and how much he paid towards a landline telephone.
But the weight of evidence pointed to Mr K living at his parents, the address he declared 
during his application  for example, he was registered to vote there; his active bank account 
was registered there; and recent searches suggest he had given the same address to four other prospective lenders in the previous three months. So, I think it was reasonable for TFS 
Loans to find Mr Ks address declaration plausible and for it to proceed on that basis.
Mr K also suggests that closer examination of the cash withdrawals showing on his bank 
statements (those given to verify his income) would have led TFS Loans to spot his 
household expenditure was different to what he had declared. I disagree. Mr Ks account 
only came with basic features and not even a debit card  indeed, the first question Mr K had 
for TFS Loans was whether he could apply without a debit card given he had been refused 
elsewhere. So, I think it is reasonable to expect frequent cash withdrawals showing on the 
statements. And as they dont show how Mr K spent his funds, I dont think it fair to suggest 
TFS Loans ought reasonably to have known that his non-discretionary spending was 
significantly different to that which he had declared.
Mr K has presented a schedule of cash payments made towards the rental property where 
he is now saying he lived at the time. I think he intends this to show his actual outgoings 
were much higher than those he originally declared. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained, I dont think proportionate checks would have led TFS Loans to find Mr Ks 
domestic and financial circumstances differed significantly to those he had declared. For 
example, it would need to cross examine every cash withdrawal and even then, in the 
absence of receipts detailing every purchase/cash payment, TFS Loans would still need to 
rely on Mr K accounting for his spending. Firstly, Im not convinced this would result in a 
more reliable picture of Mr Ks disposable income. And secondly, I wouldnt consider such a 
forensic approach reasonable or proportionate given the size and length of the lending 
together with what TFS Loans had already found out about Mr K.
Lastly, Mr K points to the overdrawn balance on his second bank account. This account 
(the one he used whilst gambling) fell around £2,800 overdrawn within a couple of weeks of 
applying for the loan. But given the transaction that took Mr K overdrawn happened only nine 
days before the application, I cant fairly say TFS Loans ought reasonably to have known 
about this. It didnt yet appear on his credit file and of course, TFS Loans didnt see the 
statements for this secondary account.
In summary, I am satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have drawn 
TFS Loans attention to the financial difficulty Mr K now appears to have been having. I say 
this because even if the lender had carried out more detailed checks, I dont think they would 
have highlighted what was causing the difficulty in question. As a result, Im not persuaded 
that more detailed checks would have given the TFS Loans a reason to think that the lending 
as likely to have been unsustainable and unaffordable for Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman