DRN-3330491
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) unfairly decided to stop communicating 
with him.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I wont go into detail here. In 
summary, Vitality said it thought there was no point in Mr S contacting it about a complaint 
hed made about a declined claim, as the complaint was being reviewed by this service. It 
wanted to stop communication about this until the ombudsman had finished reviewing that 
complaint.
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained. Vitality responded to say it could have been 
clearer when it said Mr S should no longer contact it  it should have said this only applied to 
the ongoing complaint about the claim, not any other legitimate reasons Mr S might have for 
contacting Vitality (such as a new claim for instance). It apologised for this. Vitality also 
apologised for a lengthy wait Mr S had when trying to get through on the phone. It said it was 
addressing this through recruitment and better forecasting, amongst other things.
Mr S was unsatisfied with this response and asked us to review this complaint.
Our investigator agreed with Mr S that they would only consider the points above in his 
response to Mr Ss complaint. They went on to say they thought Vitality had acted 
appropriately. They thought it was reasonable for Vitality to say it wouldnt communicate 
about a complaint that was being reviewed by this service. They also thought Vitality 
apologising for the way it had explained this was a fair response to Mr Ss complaint. Finally 
they thought Vitalitys explanation of why Mr S had had a long wait to get through on the 
phone  and the plans it had to improve this in the future  was also fair.
Mr S remains dissatisfied with this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, this decision only addresses the points Mr S agreed with our investigator. It 
doesnt look at any subsequent points Mr S raised after he received our investigators 
opinion about whether Mr Ss complaint should succeed. Thats because Vitality hasnt had a 
chance to respond to these points, which means I couldnt reach a fair conclusion by looking 
at what each party says. Nor does it consider any other complaints Mr S has made about 
Vitality, one of which has already been decided by my colleague.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. If I dont mention any particular point 
its because Im concentrating on the main issues Mr S raised.
Vitality told Mr S it thought it a waste of his and Vitalitys time to continually discuss a 
complaint hed made, when that complaint was in the process of being reviewed by this 
service. It went on to say it wouldnt communicate with him until the review was concluded. I 
think thats reasonable, given there was no new information being provided, and Vitality 
wasnt going to change its position with regard to the complaint unless instructed to do so by 
us. 
I dont think Vitality was as clear as it could have been when it wrote to Mr S about this. But 
Vitality did later apologise for this and explain that Mr S was welcome to contact it about 
anything not related to that complaint  such as a new claim, for example. I think the 
correction and apology was enough to put things right for Mr S. I cant see that Mr S was 
prevented from contacting Vitality about anything bar his complaint for more than about ten 
days, and he hasnt said he was prevented from making any time critical contact. As our 
investigator said, sometimes an apology is enough, and I agree with that here.
Mr S also said hed had to wait a long time to get through on the phone  and Vitality 
apologised for this too. It explained why this was and outlined plans it has to cut waiting 
times in the future. Again I think this is a reasonable response and I wont be asking Vitality 
to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as Vitality Health Limited has already 
responded fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman