DRN-3178962
The complaint
Mr E and Miss G complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) hasnt settled a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E and Miss G held a single trip travel insurance policy which covered them between 
26 March 2020 and 12 April 2020 for a trip theyd booked abroad. The insurer was ERV.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential international 
travel in response to the Covid-19 global pandemic. So, Mr E and Miss G cancelled their trip. 
They made a claim to ERV for their accommodation costs.
ERV declined the claim. It said the reason for cancellation wasnt covered under the policy 
terms. ERV said that cancellation due to government action, FCDO advice against travel or 
fear of being infected with coronavirus arent covered by the policy. Unhappy with ERVs 
decision, Mr E and Miss G brought their complaint to our service. They say that while 
cancellation due to government action isnt covered by the cancellation section, it also isnt 
excluded. So, Mr E and Miss G say ERV should pay their claim.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She acknowledged that the policy 
didnt provide cancellation cover due to a change in FCDO advice. But she also noted that 
the policy excluded cover if Mr E and Miss G travelled against FCDO advice. She didnt think 
it was fair that the policy didnt cover them if they didnt travel, but also it didnt cover them if 
they did travel. This was because she didnt think ERV had done enough to highlight these 
terms to Mr E and Miss G. Overall, our investigator thought ERV should consider the claim.
Mr E and Miss G were happy with our investigators findings, but ERV wasnt. In summary, it 
said that it was clear that the circumstance causing cancellation wasnt an insured event 
under the policy, and there was no policy that would cover every unforeseen risk.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in November 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr E and Miss Gs complaint.
Firstly, there may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the 
policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask ERV 
to do it here. Ill explain why.
Mr E and Miss Gs policy provides cancellation cover where the trip has been cancelled as a 
result of the following:
1.Your accidental Bodily Injury or Illness or death (or that of a Relative, a Close 
Business Associate or a friend with whom You have arranged to travel or stay).
2.You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, having being 
subject to compulsory quarantine or being summoned for non-foreseeable 
compulsory military and/or jury service or as a witness in a court of law (except in a 
professional capacity as an expert witness) during the period of the trip.
3.Your pregnancy, where confirmation of Your pregnancy by a hospital or registered 
medical practitioner is announced to You after You have bought the Policy and 
booked the trip provided You cancel Your trip within seven days.
4.Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current Redundancy 
Payment Legislation) and that of any person with whom You intend to travel provided 
that such notice of redundancy is advised to Us within 14 days of its announcement.
5.Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your 
presence being required by the police following burglary at Your private dwelling 
occurring at any time after We have accepted this insurance.
This section also has the following exclusion:
What is not covered []
9. Any costs of expenses arising from a Catastrophe.
The policy definition of a Catastrophe includes a medical epidemic  which Covid-19 was 
at the time. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic on 
11 March 2020. And an internationally accepted definition of a pandemic is an epidemic 
occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international boundaries and usually 
affecting a large number of people.
Mr E and Miss G cancelled their trip due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel 
as a result of the Covid-19 global pandemic. This isnt an insured event under the above 
terms and conditions.
While ERV hasnt specifically relied on the above exclusion, it has said the policy doesnt 
cover cancellation due to government action, FCDO advice against travel or fear of being 
infected with Covid-19. However, having reviewed the policy wording in its entirety, I think 
the above exclusion also applies to the circumstances of this case.
That means that I dont think ERV has unfairly declined Mr E and Miss Gs claim. This is 
because the reason for cancellation isnt an insured event under the cancellation section of 
the policy, and in any event, this section excludes catastrophes. 
Ive also considered the other sections of Mr E and Miss Gs policy, but I dont think they had 
any cover for the circumstances they found themselves in. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr E and Miss G pointed out that the policy did 
include cover for Catastrophe and asked if this changed my decision. But I explained that 
this section of the policy provided cover in respect of the disruption of a trip by a catastrophe. 
In short, it covered costs to return home, to an alternative destination or to the booked 
destination via an alternative route if the trip was disrupted by a catastrophe. Mr E and 
Miss Gs trip wasnt disrupted  rather, they cancelled it. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the cancellation section of the policy excluded cover for catastrophes.Mr E and Miss G said it wasnt very clear for the average person to understand all the small 
print. They took out insurance in good faith to cover against all eventualities. Mr E and 
Miss Gs representative also said his insurer had paid out on his claim in the same situation. 
He said that it wasnt fair that there was no consistency in how insurance companies treat 
their customers.
ERV didnt have any further comments to add. As both parties have now responded to my 
provisional decision, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, and for the same reasons.
As I explained to Mr E and Miss G, the Catastrophe section of the policy provided cover 
where a trip was disrupted. But that didnt happen in the circumstances of this case, as Mr E 
and Miss G cancelled their trip. And the cancellation section of the policy excluded cover for 
catastrophes.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. And I can only consider 
the claim Mr E and Miss G made to their insurer, taking into account their circumstances and 
the terms and conditions of their policy.
Overall, I dont think ERV has unfairly declined Mr E and Miss Gs claim. This is because the 
reason for cancellation isnt an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy, 
and in any event, this section excludes catastrophes. And having considered the other 
sections of Mr E and Miss Gs policy, I dont think they had any cover for the circumstances 
they found themselves in.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr E and 
Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman