DRN-2045486
The complaint
Miss G complains that TSB Bank plc didnt close her account when she asked it to. And she 
says now its asking her to pay interest and fees on a debt she didnt know she had.
What happened
Miss G told us shed closed her account with TSB in April 2018. But then about a year later 
she discovered that it hadnt been closed, and an insurance firm was still taking money out 
of it. She said TSB hadnt sent her anything at all, so she hadnt known the account was 
still open. She wanted TSB to pay her back the charges and interest shed incurred on the 
account after she thought it was closed.
TSB said that Miss G had brought her account to a nil balance in early April 2018. But it 
said it had no record of her having asked for the account to be closed. In late May, an 
insurance company took a card payment from the account. That put Miss G into overdraft, 
and she paid interest and fees on the account as a result. TSB said that was in line with the 
terms of the account. And TSB said it was sending monthly statements to her address.
Our investigator has changed his mind about this case as further evidence has emerged. 
At first he thought that it shouldnt be upheld. But then when it emerged that Miss G hadnt 
been sent any statements in the post, he thought it should be upheld. Then the insurance 
company said it had a policy for Miss G, which it had been renewing each year for some 
time. And it had written to her about this. So then our investigator said he didnt think this 
should be upheld after all.
Miss G wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Miss G says she wrote to TSB to close her account, and only discovered it hadnt 
done that when she noticed an email in her spam folder, over a year later. She sent 
us a picture of the handwritten letter she sent. (Miss G also sent us a picture of 
handwritten correspondence to TSB about closing her account sent more recently, 
so it appears to be her practice to take pictures of her correspondence.)
But TSB says it has no record of receiving this letter from her. It points out that it 
didnt write to Miss G to acknowledge her letter and confirm the account was 
closing. And Miss G doesnt appear to have followed up on this for some time.
After Miss G believed her account was closed, her account was debited for 
household insurance. That meant she went into her approved overdraft. She was 
charged interest and fees for this borrowing.
Miss G says that she doesnt auto renew her insurance. She says she may have 
been insured elsewhere at this time. But she says shes not well enough to search 
for records of this, so shes not been able to show us that was the case. The 
relevant insurer says that shes had cover with it continuously since 2015.
Miss G has said shes willing to pay the cost of the insurance, which is most of her 
debt to TSB. She doesnt want to pay the charges and interest she incurred over 
the last year. I think its right that Miss G should pay TSB the money that was taken 
from her account for her household insurance.
I think its most likely that TSB didnt get the letter that Miss G sent it. So it didnt 
know she wanted her account to be closed. It left the account open, and it has 
paid Miss Gs annual home insurance premium out of that account. I dont think 
TSB did anything wrong when it did that.
Miss G says she wasnt using this account, and TSB shouldve written to her in this 
time. TSB has done that more recently, but Miss G says that when an account is 
dormant and in debt, TSB should do more to contact its customers. I think TSB has 
done that, just not as early as Miss G wouldve liked.
It seems likely that Miss Gs letter was lost in the post. So TSB kept charging her 
interest and fees on her account. And Miss G wasnt aware of that because TSB 
was sending all her correspondence electronically, which Miss G didnt see.
TSB says that Miss G shouldve realised that it hadnt replied to her request to 
close her account. But Miss G says she has a neurological condition which can 
make tasks difficult for her.
So, initially, I dont think TSB made a mistake. But later, I think it did. Miss G 
complained, and on 24 June 2019 TSB replied to say that it hadnt got her letter. It 
also said that Miss G shouldve known that her account was still open, because it 
was sending her monthly statements to her home address, where it had sent the 
complaint response letter.
Miss G knew that wasnt right. Over a years worth of statements hadnt just been 
lost in the post. So she complained to our service. And in the meantime, TSB 
appears to have continued to charge fees and interest for borrowing on this 
account. It took some time, and discussions with our service, before TSB realised 
that it couldnt show it had been sending paper statements. Miss Gs account is set 
to paperless, she only gets online statements.
I think that TSBs claim that it was sending Miss G paper statements was part of 
the reason shes complained to this service, and part of the reason why its taken 
so long for this complaint to be resolved. Miss G is willing to pay the cost of the 
insurance here. And I think she will also need to pay the costs of the initial 
borrowing, that happened when that insurance was paid. But I think its reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case to ask TSB to refund the interest and fees that 
Miss G was charged from 24 June 2019 onwards, when TSB mistakenly told Miss 
G that it had been sending her paper statements for an account she thought was 
closed. I think thats a fair compromise for both parties to make in order to provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this dispute.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said that Miss Gs account wouldnt be treated as dormant until at least three years had 
elapsed without it being used. It wouldve written to her before the account status was 
changed to dormant. 
TSB said Miss Gs account was within her arranged overdraft, so bank charges were only 
moderate  overdraft interest and a monthly overdraft usage fee. TSB said theres no onus 
on banks to tell a customer their account is overdrawn other than by issuing bank 
statements. And it said it did that, although electronically.
TSB still thought Miss G should be held responsible for the overdrawn balance, which was 
caused by her payment for insurance. It said she must have agreed a continual card 
payment with the insurance company, and wouldve benefitted from the insurance that she 
had paid for. If she didnt know the payment was taken from TSB, how did she know it had 
been made? And the insurance company wouldve confirmed this. So TSB didnt understand 
why she didnt at least check that the correct amount was taken from her account. 
TSB said it was unreasonable to hold it responsible for Miss Gs misunderstanding with her 
insurance policy. It paid the insurance company in good faith, and there hadnt been any 
bank error.
I havent suggested TSB should be held responsible for Miss Gs payment to the insurance 
company, or for the charges it initially made for her borrowing. I have said that TSBs 
mistake, in saying that it had issued paper statements when it had only issued electronic 
statements, has prolonged this dispute. And I dont think Miss G should have to pay for her 
borrowing during the time that TSBs mistake meant this case wasnt resolved. Nothing in 
TSBs recent submissions has changed my view on that.
TSB also said it hadnt been told about any medical conditions that affected Miss Gs ability 
to manage her bank account with it. As Miss G says TSB shouldve known about her health, 
Ill return to this below.
Miss G also replied to make a number of further points.
Miss G said she didnt believe she should pay TSB either the cost of the insurance or the 
interest, because she didnt agree to it, and she thought the account was closed. Miss G 
made a number of points about whether the insurance company was authorised to take this 
payment from her account, and about when this account was first used to make a card 
payment to the insurance company. She hasnt yet been able to check whether she had 
insurance elsewhere as well as this. 
I cant consider, as part of a complaint against TSB, whether the insurance company should 
or should not have taken this money. Even if the insurance company had done something 
wrong, I couldnt hold TSB responsible for that. 
Miss G said TSB shouldve declined to make this payment. She didnt think she should be 
responsible for remembering which account had been used to pay for insurance. She told us 
that she has several different accounts and cards. I dont agree that TSB shouldve declined this payment. Miss Gs account was open at the 
time. And if Miss G has been insured twice, or if this payment was otherwise unauthorised, 
Miss G would have to discuss that with the insurance company. I dont think this is a reason 
for Miss G not to pay TSB the money taken from her account to pay the insurance company. 
Miss G repeated that shed written to TSB to tell it to close her account, and she thought it 
had got her letter. She said there was further evidence that it wasnt responding to letters in 
our investigation. And she asked why TSB hadnt cashed the cheque that she sent it. 
Im aware that TSB received letters after it sent Miss G its final response to her complaint, 
and I cant see that these were acknowledged. But I dont think that means TSB got Miss Gs 
letter asking it to close her account. And TSB didnt cash Miss Gs cheque because it didnt 
agree with the resolution our investigator proposed at that time. It wanted to offer further 
evidence, and wanted Miss G to pay more of the debt on the account. I dont think that TSB 
was wrong, in these circumstances, not to cash this cheque. 
Miss G also said that TSB lied about sending statements in the post. She said her 
statements were being sent by post, as a request under the Equality Act. And she told us 
that post stopped when she requested the account be closed in April 2018, so she thought 
this was more evidence that TSB had got her letter. 
I dont think the post from TSB did stop when Miss G asked TSB to close this account in 
April 2018. When Miss G first contacted us, she said that shed intended to close this 
account before, a year earlier, but a regular payment was still being made into the account 
during 2017 and it remained open. Miss G told us that TSB hadnt written to her at all during 
2017, to say her account was in credit. So I think its most likely that Miss Gs account has 
been set to paperless since at least early 2017. 
I also think its worth noting that TSB has told us that this sort of account carries interest, but 
only if the account is operated without paper statements or correspondence. So TSB thinks 
its likely that Miss G set her account to operate electronically, because thats how she could 
earn interest on the account. That would fit with what Mrs G has said, which is that she used 
this account as a savings account. 
We now know that Miss G hasnt received statements on this account since at least early 
2017, and because she said this was a savings account, it may always have been a 
paperless account. 
I know TSB made a mistake when it told us it had been sending paper statements to Miss G. 
And I understand that Miss G wants paper statements, as she finds these easier to manage. 
But TSB says it didnt know that she needed this because of her disability. 
If Miss G had asked to receive statements in paper format, as a request under the Equality 
Act, I wouldve expected TSB to have a record of this. It doesnt have that, and it clearly 
hasnt sent paper statements for some time. I havent seen anything to suggest that TSB has 
failed to comply with a request under the Equality Act.
Miss G said that she also thought it was irresponsible for any bank to have empty dormant 
accounts that no one had accessed for a few months. She said that banks should have to 
write to inform the account holder of this. She said the law needed to be changed on this so 
it wasnt allowed. 
Its not the role of our service to amend the law, and I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
TSB not to write to Miss G earlier than it did.Miss G said that TSB was very aware she is disabled and suffers chronic ill health because 
of a claim she made in 2015. She said that TSB had let her down on that claim, and shed 
decided not to invest with TSB any more then. 
I cant consider any complaint Miss G makes about that claim here, as that isnt what Miss G 
originally complained to us about. And TSB says it hadnt been told about any medical 
conditions that affected Miss Gs ability to manage her bank account with it. TSB has set out 
for us its policy on recording disabilities. And that makes clear that, even if Miss G told TSB 
about her health and disability in 2015 as part of a claim, TSB wouldnt be able to record that 
for the future unless it had Miss Gs express permission to do this. 
Thats what I would expect to see  TSB shouldnt make notes for the future to say that 
anyone is disabled without being sure that person has agreed to this. 
TSB doesnt have any such record of Miss Gs health. So I dont think its likely that Miss G 
has given TSB permission to record that. 
Miss G said that TSB needed to be shut down by the ombudsman. Our service isnt a 
regulator, and we cant do that. We can only look at what has happened in Miss Gs case. 
Ive done that, and although Ive reconsidered carefully, I havent changed my mind. Ill now 
make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must refund all the interest and charges it has applied 
to Miss Gs account since 24 June 2019 onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman