DRN-3014653
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service hes received from TSB Bank plc surrounding his request 
for a replacement chequebook.  
What happened
Mr W lives overseas. Mr W requested a replacement chequebook for his TSB current 
account. No replacement chequebook was received, and a few months later Mr W repeated 
his request for a replacement chequebook to TSB.
Mr W still didnt receive a replacement chequebook, so he issued cheques against his 
savings account. However, these cheques were returned as unpaid due to their being 
insufficient funds in Mr Ws savings account to cover the cheques. Mr W wasnt happy about 
this and felt that TSB should have transferred funds from his current account, where the 
requisite funds were available, to cover the issued cheques. So, he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they noted that they had attempted to post a 
replacement chequebook to Mr Ws overseas address, but that it had been returned as 
undelivered. TSB also felt that it was incumbent on Mr W to have arranged for the funds 
needed to cover the issued cheques to be transferred to his savings account before issuing 
those cheques. Because of this, TSB didnt feel that they had done anything wrong, so they 
didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it wasnt the responsibility 
of TSB to have transferred funds between Mr Ws accounts at their own behest to ensure 
that Mr Ws cheques would be honoured, so they also didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ws 
complaint.
However, during their review, our investigator obtained confirmation from TSB that they 
hadnt posted a replacement chequebook to Mr Ws overseas address as they had initially 
stated, and that this was because their internal policies included a restriction on posting 
banking items to the country in which Mr W resides. 
Our investigator therefore didnt feel that TSB had communicated with Mr W fairly or 
reasonably about this issue and that Mr W had incurred a detriment as a result. So, our 
investigator recommended that this aspect of Mr Ws complaint be upheld in his favour, and 
that TSB should make a payment of £250 to Mr W to compensate him for any trouble or 
upset he may have incurred.
Mr W didnt feel that the recommendation made by our investigator went far enough, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr W has made a number of detailed submissions 
and raised a variety of different points. Id like to thank Mr W for his submissions to this 
service, and I hope that he wont consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in 
similar detail here. Rather, inline with this services role as an informal dispute resolution 
service, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points as they relate to this complaint. 
This means that if Mr W notes that I havent responded to a specific point that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all submissions made by both Mr W and TSB  but rather that Ive 
read and considered that point, but that I dont feel it necessary to directly address it in this 
letter in order to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
In my opinion, there are two main elements to Mr Ws complaint, these being how TSB 
responded to Mr Ws request for a replacement chequebook and how TSB responded to Mr 
W issuing cheques on his savings account.   
When TSB first corresponded with this service, they explained that a replacement 
chequebook had been sent out to Mr W but that it had been returned as undelivered several 
weeks later. TSB felt that the delay in the chequebooks return was understandable given 
that it had been posted overseas.
However, it was later discovered that this was incorrect, and TSB confirmed that because 
the overseas territory in which Mr W resides was considered as being high risk, TSB has in 
place a policy which prohibits the posting of banking items, such as chequebooks, to that 
location. 
TSB further confirmed that this policy would have meant that Mr Ws replacement 
chequebook would have been sent to the TSB branch in the UK which administered Mr Ws 
accounts so that it could be collected by Mr W on his return to the UK. And, while there are 
no notes from the UK branch which confirm what happened, TSB surmised that its likely that 
the replacement chequebook was returned to TSBs head office by the branch when Mr W 
hadnt collected the chequebook after several weeks.
Given that the above process wasnt explained to Mr W, its clear that theres been a failure 
of communication here on TSBs behalf. 
Considering the second element of Mr Ws complaint  that TSB should have transferred 
funds from his current account to his savings account so that the cheques that he issued on 
against his savings account would be honoured  Im not convinced that it was incumbent on 
TSB to have taken such a course of action. 
Its notable that TSBs account terms and conditions confirm that: Youre asking for an 
Unarranged Overdraft if you try to pay something when theres not enough money in your 
account We wont always give you an unarranged overdraft.
As such, Im satisfied that TSB werent acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W by not 
honouring the cheques that he wrote against his savings account when there wasnt 
sufficient money in that account to cover those cheques. Furthermore, I feel that it was Mr 
Ws responsibility to have transferred the necessary funds to his savings account to ensure 
that there was the money in that account to cover the cheques that hed written.
Mr W may contend that he didnt have the facility to move money between his accounts. 
However, I would respond to such a contention by referring Mr W to the other channels that 
were and remain open to him to conduct his banking, such as online or telephone banking. 
And, while it may be the case that Mr W prefers not to use such alternative channels, these alternative channels do exist, and I wouldnt feel that I could fairly censure TSB on the basis 
of Mr W choosing not to use them.
All of which means that I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint as it relates to TSB not 
initiating a movement of money from Mr Ws current account to his savings account in order 
to honour the cheques that Mr W wrote against that savings account.
However, given the failure of communication already discussed above in relation to the first 
aspect of Mr Ws complaint  how TSB responded to Mr Ws request for a replacement 
chequebook  I will be upholding this aspect of Mr Ws complaint and instructing TSB to 
make a payment of £250 to Mr W as compensation for this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being thought of as such by someone else. But, while Im 
aware that Mr W will disagree with me, the £250 compensation amount as recommended by 
our investigator does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect, given the circumstances here.
Im aware that Mr W feels that a larger amount of compensation should be awarded, given 
that hes incurred costs relating to this matter as a result of his residing overseas. I can 
appreciate why Mr W might feel this way, but I wouldnt consider awarding a higher level of 
compensation to an individual on the basis of where they choose to live. As such, I remain 
satisfied that the award of £250 compensation is fair in this instance. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but I trust that he 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
TSB must make a payment of £250 to Mr W.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman