DRN-3222650
The complaint
Mr U complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to close his account and withhold the 
money in it.
What happened
 Mr U regularly works overseas and often transfers money from one country back to the UK.  
Mr U explained that he sometimes uses friends to help him with his currency exchange.
In September 2019, Mr U sent naira (the currency of Nigeria) to a third party. The third party 
then sent Mr U the equivalent in British pounds - £1,000 to his Lloyds account. Lloyds 
reviewed Mr Us account and asked him to provide documentation to show his entitlement to 
the £1,000. A few days later, Lloyds decided to close Mr Us account. They gave him 60 
days notice to find alternative banking arrangements. 
In November 2019, once Mr U had returned to the UK, he took the required documentation 
to Lloyds. Lloyds didnt agree to release the money left in Mr Us account at this point 
because they said theyd received an indemnity from the sending bank to return the money 
to the source.
Mr U got in touch with the sender of the funds and she confirmed she had no issues with the 
transaction. She informed her bank and sent a copy of her correspondence to Mr U.
Mr U brought the complaint to our service. In November 2021, Lloyds confirmed that the 
sending bank hadnt raised an indemnity and agreed to return the money left in the account 
to Mr U.
Our investigator thought Lloyds needed to do something to put things right. He was satisfied 
they were entitled to review and close Mr Us account. But he thought they should have been 
more proactive in November 2019 when they were expecting an indemnity from the sending 
bank  but didnt receive one. Our investigator thought Lloyds should have chased the 
sending bank and if nothing was forthcoming could have likely returned the money to Mr U in 
December 2019. Our investigator thought Lloyds should add 8% simple interest to the 
amount left in Mr Us account and pay him £150 compensation.
Lloyds agreed. Mr U didnt. He said the overall situation was emotionally distressing because 
he was made to feel like a criminal. Mr U wanted around £5,000 compensation but said he 
would accept £2,500. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account review and closure
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Lloyds was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Us account in September 2019. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything 
wrong.
While Lloyds are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely manner 
and without undue delays. When banks carry out reviews, its common practice across the 
banking industry that the review will require additional information from the account holder. 
Often, the information required is related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to 
recent payments or more details on what the account is used for. Im aware Lloyds asked 
Mr U about the payment of £1,000 which had recently been credited into his account.
Following their review, Lloyds decided to end their relationship with Mr U. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr U decided 
to stop banking with Lloyds, he wouldnt have to explain why. Lloyds can only close accounts 
in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. Im satisfied 
Lloyds have complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr Us account by giving 
him the appropriate notice.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Lloyds exercised
their right to no longer offer Mr U banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently on this
part.
The money left in Mr Us account
Once Mr U returned to the UK in November 2019, he gave Lloyds the documentation theyd 
asked him for to show he was entitled to the £1,000 credit. At this point, Lloyds told Mr U 
they couldnt return the money to him directly because the sending bank had raised an 
indemnity which meant they needed to return it to the original source. As the payment came 
from an individual Mr U knew, he contacted her about it. She confirmed she didnt have any 
issues with the payment and informed her own bank of the issues. 
To date, Mr U has been without this money. In November 2021, Lloyds confirmed no 
indemnity had been raised by the sending bank, so they were willing to return the money to 
Mr U. I havent seen any information or evidence to explain why there was a significant delay 
in Lloyds chasing the sending bank for an update on the return of the funds. Like our 
investigator, I think they should have acted more efficiently  and I agree the two weeks 
grace period our investigator suggested is sufficient. It follows that I think Lloyds should 
return the money left in the account to Mr U without delay. And I think 8% simple interest 
should be paid to recognise the time Mr U has been without the funds. 
The impact on Mr U
I dont doubt being without his money for almost two years would have had a significant 
impact on Mr U. He says he felt he had been treated like a criminal when he hadnt done 
anything wrong. I appreciate Mr U wants around £2,500 compensation. However, I havent 
seen enough evidence to satisfy me that this amount of compensation Mr U is asking for is 
warranted. Based on the full circumstances of this complaint, I consider a compensation 
amount of £150 fairly reflects the trouble Mr U has encountered.
Putting things rightOverall, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably when reviewing and closing Mr Us account. 
But I think they should have been more proactive in their review. Lloyds should return the 
money which was left in Mr Us account at the time they closed it, to Mr U directly. And they 
should add 8% simple interest to this amount to recognise the loss of use of the funds.
I also consider Lloyds should pay Mr U £150 compensation.  
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. To put things right 
they should:
Return the money left in Mr Us account to Mr U directly;
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount they refund Mr U. This should be paid from 10 
December 2019 up until the date the refund it.
HM Revenue & Customs require Lloyds Bank PLC to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Lloyds should give Mr U a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr U asks for one.
Pay Mr U £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman