DRN-4002145
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way AWP P&C SA has handled a claim she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F held an annual travel insurance policy which shed taken out through a broker.
In January 2022, Mrs F was abroad in a country Ill call U when she was taken ill. She says 
she contacted AWPs medical assistance line, but received little support, although she says 
she was told that if she was admitted to hospital for treatment, AWP would sort things out. 
Mrs F was admitted to hospital for two days. She incurred medical bills of over $25,000.
Upon her return to the UK, Mrs F made a claim for her medical costs. She provided AWP 
with information itd asked for but received no response. She began to receive a number of 
chasers from the hospital for the outstanding bill. Despite chasing AWP and making a 
complaint, neither Mrs Fs claim nor complaint appeared to be progressed.
Unhappy with AWPs handling of her claim, concerned that the hospital might sell the debt to 
a collection agency and worried that she might be prevented from entering U again in the 
future, Mrs F asked us to look into her complaint.
We asked AWP for a copy of its file. But despite chases, it didnt provide us with any 
information or evidence. Therefore, our investigator assessed the complaint based on the 
information he did have. And he concluded that Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. He 
noted the policy covered medical expenses. As AWP had provided no claims information, he 
didnt think it had shown that the claim wasnt otherwise covered. So he recommended that 
AWP should settle Mrs Fs claim and pay her £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
had caused her.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessment and so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AWP had treated Mrs F fairly. I said:
First, its important I explain that given AWP has provided us with no information or 
evidence, despite repeated requests, Ive necessarily had to base my provisional decision on 
the evidence I do have. However, should AWP send me any evidence in response to my 
current findings, this may change my view.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Fs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether AWP 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Fs 
contract with AWP. Section A sets out Emergency Medical Expenses cover. This says that 
AWP provides up to £10 million cover for emergency medical, repatriation and other 
associated expenses. Medical expenses cover is provided for emergency medical treatment 
incurred outside a policyholders home country.
On the face of things, it seems Mrs F has a valid claim. Ive seen copies of the medical 
report she provided following her collapse; a bill for her costs and the treatment she received 
abroad. Her medical costs were well below £10 million.
The medical emergency Mrs F faced happened now over a year ago. I can see from 
communications Mrs F sent to AWP that she made the claim quickly and provided necessary 
evidence promptly. But despite chasing-up AWP a number of times, including letting it know 
about the reminder letters she was receiving from the hospital and her fears about the 
potential impact on her future ability to travel to U, it simply didnt respond. Neither did it 
provide a final response letter to Mrs Fs complaint, in breach of the regulators rules.
And given its only now, over a year after the events took place, that AWP has requested 
Mrs Fs consent to access her medical records, it seems it still isnt in a position to make a 
claims decision. Based on what Ive seen so far, it would seem unfair for me to find that 
AWP can continue to assess the claim, meaning that Mrs F might suffer further delays or 
potential recovery action. It isnt at all clear that any further assessment might be done in a 
timely way.
I think AWP has had ample time to consider Mrs Fs claim and obtain the information it 
needed to decide whether or not it should be paid. It didnt do so. Neither has it provided me 
with any information or evidence to show a reason why the claim might not be payable. And 
therefore, I currently plan to direct AWP to settle Mrs Fs claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Its clear too that the unnecessary delays Mrs F has experienced in the handling of her claim 
and in AWPs failure to respond to her queries has caused her frustration and worry. I dont 
doubt that Mrs F has been concerned about her ability to travel to U in the future, or a 
potential impact on her credit rating. Ive seen no valid reason for the delays Mrs F has 
experienced or for the upset shes been caused. So I intend to tell AWP to pay her £500 
compensation for the material distress and inconvenience its handling of her claim has 
caused her over a year-long period.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider.
Neither Mrs F nor AWP had anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither Mrs F nor AWP have provided any further evidence or 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to settle Mrs Fs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
I also direct AWP to pay Mrs F £500 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman