DRN-2912450
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as F has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a 
claim under its business interruption insurance policy after it business was impacted by 
Covid-19. 
Ms S, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. 
What happened
F held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. F claimed on its policy after 
being forced to close by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Covea said Fs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said the core business interruption 
cover and the extension for prevention of access both required there to have been damage 
to property and Covid-19 didnt cause damage. They added that, although the policy 
included an extension for compulsory closure due to a notifiable human infectious or 
contagious disease at the premises, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, F brought its complaint to our service. F thought the policy 
said it covered pandemics and Covea should pay its claim. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Fs claim. 
F asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that it had bought a policy in good faith and it 
was unfair for Covea to turn down a justifiable claim due to wording in the small print. F said 
the policy didnt say the compulsory closure had to be as a result of damage and it was 
aware that the pandemic hadnt caused damage to property. However, F said the policy it 
had seen covered closure due to a pandemic and thought Covea must have changed the 
wording in the policy. F also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case, as it thought this impacted its claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
F. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive seen a copy of the policy that was in force at the time of 
Fs claim and have looked at it carefully to see if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Fs claim.
F doesnt seem to dispute that Covid-19 caused damage to property so I will focus my 
decision on the extension for compulsory closure. For completeness however, I also dont 
think the core business interruption cover or the extension for denial of access provides 
cover as both of these require damage to property and I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused damage to property. 
The relevant part of the extension for compulsory closure says that the policy covers:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
The policy specifically defines notifiable human infectious or contagious disease as:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, 
food poisoning, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningitis, meningococcal 
septicaemia (without meningitis), mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid 
fever, plague, rabies, relapsing fever, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhoid fever, typhus fever, viral haemorrhagic fever, viral hepatitis, 
hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, whooping cough, yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior written 
consent.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Fs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
Rather, it says that no new diseases will be added without prior written consent. So I dont 
think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
The policy doesnt say that it covers pandemics. It says that it provides cover in the event of 
compulsory closure arising from the discovery, at the premises, of one of the diseases listed 
in the definition of notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. As Covid-19 isnt on 
this list, the policy doesnt provide cover for closure due to the Governments response to the 
national pandemic. 
F has referred to the FCAs test case but whether the claim should be paid still depends on 
the specific wording within the policy. Im afraid in this case the Supreme Court judgment 
doesnt impact Fs claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome F was hoping for given the significant losses its suffered 
but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to 
pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman