DRN-3814111
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited handled his motor insurance 
claim. 
References to Skyfire include its agents.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr R made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Skyfire after 
damaging his car in an accident. 
Skyfire arranged for the vehicle to be repaired by one of its authorised repairers. However, it 
wasnt picked up on the day agreed which meant that Mr R lost a days annual leave from 
work. 
Mr R complained about the time he was waiting for repairs to be completed and a lack of 
communication from the repairer. After the car was returned to him, Mr R raised some 
further concerns. He said the there wasnt much fuel in the tank, the vehicle hadnt been 
cleaned or sanitized and the battery appeared to be disconnected. 
Mr R reported an electrical issue and wheel vibration. Skyfire authorised for one of the cars 
manufacturers dealerships to determine the cause of the electrical fault. Skyfire said the 
faults couldnt be linked to the circumstances of the accident. But Mr R disagreed. 
Skyfire suggested Mr R arrange for the vehicle to be taken to a garage of his choice to 
provide an assessment and estimate of costs for damage as a result of the accident or 
deemed rectification of the original repairing garage. It said it would consider covering costs.
The vehicle went to the manufacturers dealership in May 2022 for diagnostics and was 
returned for further investigations and repairs. There were numerous emails and calls 
between Mr R, Skyfire and various other parties involved. Mr R says he delayed booking a 
holiday and wasnt able to book airport parking because of concerns about how long he 
would have the hire car Skyfire had provided. Mr R said he was told Skyfire would pay for 
the repair of his air conditioning unit but Skyfire disputed this.
Eventually, Skyfire agreed to pay Mr R cash in lieu for all the repairs to his vehicle, including 
the air conditioning unit. It provided him with a hire car until the repairs were completed. It 
also offered him £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience, which was in addition to 
previous payments it had made.
Mr R didnt think Skyfires offer was enough to put things right. Our investigator looked into 
his concerns and thought Skyfires offer was fair and reasonable. She acknowledged that the 
situation had been stressful for Mr R. But she considered the £750 on top of £575 Skyfire 
had already paid Mr R (for distress and inconvenience) was enough to put things right.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said £300 of the compensation Skyfire 
had already paid him was because of poor communication and wasnt to do with the repair of 
the car.
Mr R said hed had to delay booking his holiday because Skyfire kept changing the dates his 
car would be available. Although it had reimbursed him for parking, it hadnt compensated 
him for the extra £400 hed had to pay for him and his partners holiday because he hadnt 
booked it earlier.
Mr R said hed had to take his car to four different repair centres himself because he didnt 
want them taken on low loaders because of the risk of further damage. He said this had 
saved Skyfire around £1,600 but it had refused to compensate him for his time. 
So, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Id like to reassure Mr R I have considered all his points, even if Ive not addressed each of 
them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of his 
complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Skyfire has acknowledged that Mr Rs overall customer experience wasnt good. It says 
communication throughout the repairs was poor and confusing. Skyfire says it wasnt clear 
that the issues with the air conditioning were incident or repair related. However, it agreed to 
pay for these as there was an element of doubt and Mr R had the expectation that the work 
would be done.
From what both parties have said, I understand all of the repair and rectification work was 
completed by September 2022. Skyfire says it made cash in lieu payments to Mr R to the 
value of the invoices he provided, and it gave him a courtesy car throughout this process. 
Skyfire has made various payments to Mr R over the course of his claim, including 
reimbursements for costs plus around £575 for distress and inconvenience. Its offer of £750 
brings the total amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience up to £1,325.
Mr R has commented that some of the compensation hed received was to do with customer 
service from one of Skyfires agents and wasnt to do with the car repair.  As the insurer, 
Skyfire is responsible for any issues relating to the handling of the claim. So, Ive looked at 
everything as a whole and considered the total amount of compensation Mr R has been paid 
and offered in relation to the handling of his claim  whether it was for issues with the repairs 
of his car or the customer service he received.
I appreciate Mr R feels that Skyfire should pay him the extra £400 it cost him for his holiday 
because he booked it later than hed wanted to. I understand why Mr R might have wanted 
some certainty about when his vehicle would be returned before booking the holiday. But 
ultimately it was his decision to book the holiday he did when he did. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to tell Skyfire to compensate him for any financial loss he might have incurred. However, I have considered this as part of the overall impact of Skyfires handling of the 
claim because I do recognise that this was part of the distress and inconvenience Mr R 
experienced.
Mr R has also commented that he had to take his car to four different repair centres himself, 
because of his concerns about further damage if it was taken on a low loader. However, it 
was Mr Rs decision not to accept Skyfires offer to pay for the vehicle to be delivered to and 
from the repair centres. So, Im not persuaded Skyfire needs to compensate Mr R for the 
time it took him to do this.
Although Skyfire eventually agreed to pay Mr R cash in lieu for the repairs and rectification 
work to be carried out, it wasnt fully completed until almost a year after he made his claim. I 
think the claim would have concluded much sooner if effective repairs had been completed 
to begin with.  
Im persuaded that there was serious disruption to Mr Rs daily life over the duration of the 
claim. He spent a lot of time emailing and phoning various parties. He had to arrange repairs 
himself and take his car to the repair centres. There was a substantial amount of distress 
and worry relating to the repairs and duration of car hire. I can also see that Mr R raised 
concerns about the suitability of courtesy cars. He said he couldnt fit in a double buggy for 
his grandchildren which had an impact on childcare and family gatherings. 
Mr R has made several other comments about the impact delays and poor communication 
have had on him and Ive considered all of these. However, Skyfires offer to pay Mr R an 
additional £750 would bring the total amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience 
in line with what our service would typically award under the circumstances. And, while I 
know my answer will be disappointing for Mr R, I think this fairly recognises the impact of 
Skyfires mistakes on him. 
Putting things right
Skyfire should pay Mr R £750. 
My final decision
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr R an additional 
£750 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman