DRN-3910006
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given negligent advice by Robert Bruce Associates (RBA) to 
transfer benefits from his defined benefits (DB) pension scheme to a flexi-drawdown pension 
plan in 2010.
What happened
Mr M responded to an RBA advert in November 2009 as he was interested in releasing 
money from his pensions. At the time he had deferred benefits in a DB scheme valued at 
around £127,000. He also had some DB benefits with his current employer at the time. 
RBA requested details from Mr Ms DB schemes. They also sent him a letter on 10 
November 2009 which included the following warning:
A Warning: You should be aware that if you are taking your benefits early it would only be 
suitable for a very limited number of people and circumstances, and it will almost certainly 
reduce your pension income in retirement. 
RBA received details from Mr Ms DB schemes in mid December. Following a phone 
conversation between RBA and Mr M, the adviser sent Mr M a letter on 29 December 2009 
which set out that Mr M wanted to access the maximum tax-free cash lump sum from his 
pensions as he needed the money to pay off a secure loan and his credit card as he was 
struggling to maintain payments. RBA then set out the risks of taking a lump sum from his 
pension which included:
He couldnt take another lump sum when he retired
The tax-free cash lump sum at his normal retirement date would likely be higher
Taking benefits now would mean a likely lower pension in retirement
There would be charges involved in taking benefits now
Death benefits could be taxed
Benefits couldnt be paid back into the pension if his situation improved
The letter carried on saying that:
In view of the risks, RBAs recommendation was to leave his benefits where they 
were and to try and secure other means of raising capital.
Mr M had stated that he had exhausted alternative means and so wished to proceed 
with taking pension benefits
RBA was in a position to assist and make recommendations of the most suitable 
pension options as long as Mr M understood the risks and confirmed he was going 
against the advisers recommendation.
They would need Mr M to confirm his decision in writing
They enclosed the necessary paperwork to enable Mr M to release his tax-free cash 
from his pensions
Forms were prepopulated and adviser had indicated where Mr Ms signatures were 
required.
On 4 January 2010, Mr M signed a letter to confirm that RBA had explained to him they 
would be carrying out the transaction at his explicit request and that it was against advice. 
He also said:
I fully understand that this course of action may not be in my long term best interest, as 
Pension Fund Withdrawal (Income Drawdown) is reliant on future fund performance which 
cannot be guaranteed, and I will be losing my entitlement to a Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) at retirement from the above mentioned schemes [his DB schemes].
There is also a handwritten letter signed by Mr M at the same time on 4 January which 
confirms his decision to request the lump sum from his pension as discussed. And that he 
accepts and understands all implications of converting a pension savings plan to a pension 
in payment. The letter says he encloses signed documents and personal ID documentation 
as requested.
The application for his new pension plan, release forms from the DB scheme and a pension 
review questionnaire which essentially included information about Mr Ms personal and 
financial circumstances, his objectives and risk attitude were all signed by Mr M on the same 
day, 4 January 2010.
RBA confirmed to Mr M on 8 January 2010 that all paperwork had been forwarded to the 
new pension provider and the DB scheme.
A suitability report was issued on 18 January 2010. Its signed by Mr M in early March, 
however, there is a letter from RBA a couple of days before to Mr M to chase him for the 
signature. 
Mr M was still an active member of his employers DB scheme at the time which meant he 
would have needed to opt-out of the scheme first if he wanted to transfer benefits. And in 
2010 the minimum age was about to be raised from 50 to 55 (Mr M was 52). RBA informed 
Mr M there wasnt enough time to opt out, transfer and access benefits before those 
legislative changes. So Mr M ended up only transferring benefits from his larger DB scheme 
in 2010. The money was received in his new personal pension on 29 January 2010. He took 
tax free cash and -as he didnt access a lump sum from his other DB scheme as planned- 
started drawing a taxable income of over £6,000 per year. 
Mr M, through a representative, complained to RBA in 2020 about the advice he received.
RBA rejected the complaint and said they had appropriately advised him.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. RBA said the complaint had been made outside
the regulators time limits. I previously issued a decision in which I found the complaint was 
made in time. An investigator then considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.
In summary she said RBAs advice wasnt clear and whilst they referred in their suitability 
report and previous letters to the fact Mr M was going against advice, this was undermined 
by then making recommendations about where to transfer his pension to. She also didnt 
think Mr M would have fully understood the benefits he was giving up and what this decision 
meant for his retirement income in future. The investigator was also concerned that Mr M 
proceeded on an insistent client basis before the suitability report was issued and she didnt 
think he had a pressing need to take money from his pension. She didnt think RBA had 
treated Mr M fairly and if they had provided him with sufficient information during the advice 
process, he likely wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer and wouldve kept his DB 
benefits.She recommended RBA to put Mr M into the position he would be in now if he had remained 
in the DB scheme by calculating losses in line with the regulators guidance on DB transfer 
redress.
RBA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I repeat my 
findings below:
Who is the appropriate respondent to this complaint?
Robert Bruce Associates (RBA) became Robert Bruce Associates Limited (RBAL) in April 
2014. 
The advice subject to this complaint was given before April 2014 when the entity responsible 
for that advice was RBA rather than RBAL. I appreciate that RBAL have responded to the 
complaint as this is the current incarnation of the firm and I can see theres a deed poll from 
2014 of RBAL accepting responsibility for RBAs past business.
Where a firm has taken responsibility for another firm, S234B of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 gives this service discretion to set up a complaint against either against 
the predecessor or successor firm. Neither the provisions of a deed poll, nor the provisions 
of a contract between RBA and RBAL extinguish RBAs liability to Mr M. And generally we 
think its appropriate to set up the complaint against the firm which was originally responsible 
for the advice, so in this case RBA. 
Any agreement between RBA and RBAL to accept the liability is a matter between the firms 
but this wont affect which firm we consider the complaint against in any views or decisions 
we issue.
So in my view the appropriate respondent to this complaint is RBA. Ive treated all the 
submissions RBAL has made as being in respect of RBA. 
jurisdiction
RBA still thinks Mr M has complained too late and disagrees with my decision on jurisdiction. 
However, whilst they reiterated their arguments, they have not provided any new information 
and I remain satisfied for the reasons set out in my jurisdiction decision that this is a 
complaint I can consider.
Did RBA provide suitable advice to Mr M and did they treat him fairly?
There were no specific rules on insistent clients at the time of the advice. However, COBS 
2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. The regulator also issued a factsheet to advisers in 2015 about their 
position on advising insistent clients. This was issued five years after the advice given to Mr 
M, but when it was issued it was described by the regulator as a helpful reminder, so it 
didnt mark a change in good practice. So Ive also looked at RBAs actions in light of this.
The key steps to take in the regulators view were:1. To provide suitable advice for the individual client and this advice must be clear to the 
client
2. To be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against the advisers advice
Based on the letters he signed on 4 January 2010, I think Mr M would have understood he 
was going against RBAs advice to take pension benefits early and that he should explore 
alternative ways to raise capital to alleviate his debts. I also think he would have understood 
that taking benefits early would generally impact on retirement benefits later on and that he 
was giving up a guaranteed minimum pension.
However, like the investigator, I think the advice process here was flawed in many ways.  
Mr M made his decision to transfer and was provided with all the necessary documents to 
proceed against advice before a suitability report was issued. Its unclear what exactly Mr M 
was told, before he made his decision, about his DB scheme benefits and what his 
retirement income would look like if he remained in the scheme. Ive seen no evidence that 
his plans for retirement and income objectives were properly discussed and meaningful 
comparisons made between an income drawdown plan and his DB scheme in the long-term. 
Mr M was an inexperienced investor, so Im doubtful that he would have understood what a 
GMP was and what exactly he was giving up.
Mr M seems to have been allowed to make his decision only based on verbal discussions 
the extent and details of which are unclear. And whilst the risks of taking pension benefits 
early seem to have been mentioned, Im not satisfied that sufficient attention was given to 
the value of the benefits he was given up and that given the critical yields were unlikely to be 
matched with his attitude to risk, he would likely be significantly worse off in retirement. I also 
cant see that Mr M was informed about the risk of running out of funds in retirement and that 
he didnt really have the capacity to withstand significant losses to his pension.
The suitability report itself mentions at the start Against Advice. And it goes on to say that 
due to the loss of GMP and that this cant be reinstated, the transaction is against advice.
However, straight after that the security of DB benefits are played down by explaining that if 
the scheme cant meet liabilities, there was risk he could lose out on some or all of his 
benefits and that nothing in life was guaranteed.
There is a basic comparison of starting DB benefits and personal pension benefits at age 63, 
but its not explained how long income drawdown and at a certain rate would be supported. 
Large parts of the report are focussed on the different options to take benefits outside the 
DB scheme and RBAs recommendation in that regard.
Overall, I dont think Mr M was given sufficient information about the value of his benefits 
and the full risks of going into drawdown to make an informed choice. In order to give 
suitable advice advantages, disadvantages and risks of transferring should have been 
clearly explained. RBA should have explained why in their view a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms 
best interest and given a clear recommendation against it and all the reasons why. This 
wasnt in my view strong enough. 
Instead he was told he was acting against advice after he had been given generic risk 
warnings of taking benefits early and was then immediately provided with a way to proceed 
anyway. RBA knew Mr M was interested in taking a lump sum from his pension. So if they 
thought it was in his best interest not to proceed, they needed to make this clearer.So overall I dont think RBA provided suitable advice and treated Mr M fairly in the way they 
provided their advice or acted in his best interest. 
What would Mr M have done if RBA had provided clear and suitable advice to Mr M?
I want to make it clear first that RBA was allowed to facilitate a transfer on an insistent client 
basis. Their failure here is not that they facilitated the transfer, but that they didnt provide 
proper and suitable advice before allowing Mr M to proceed.
It's not my role to punish businesses for their errors. My aim is to put Mr M as much as 
possible back into the position he would be in now if RBA had treated him fairly.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms position and his actions in the following years and on the 
balance of probabilities I think he still would have transferred out of his DB scheme. Ill 
explain why.
Mr M approached RBA to release money from his pension. Looking at the notes from the 
time of the advice its recorded that Mr M had a mortgage of £120,000 which was about half 
on a repayment and half on an interest only basis. He also had a secured loan of £24,000 
with monthly payments of £450 which he was struggling to repay and which the bank had 
refused to renegotiate payments on. He also had a credit card balance of £5,000 which he 
was only able to pay minimum payments on. He had no savings or other assets.
In his complaint to RBA, his representatives say Mr M was struggling financially. They say 
Mr M and the adviser agree a re-mortgage wasnt possible, another personal loan would not 
alleviate his financial worries and he had no other investments he could encash. 
The DB scheme confirmed at the time that he couldnt start drawing benefits from his DB 
pension early as the GMP wasnt supported. So Mr Ms only options were to remain in the 
DB scheme and not access any benefits or transfer his pension.
Mr Ms representatives say options like a debt management plan or borrowing from friends 
and family wasnt explored by RBA. And if it had, these are the options Mr M would have 
pursued. RBA might not have mentioned these options specifically, however they did make it 
clear that alternatives should be explored and accessing his pension should be a last resort.
Also, Mr M had already spoken to his bank who didnt agree to re-negotiating his loan 
repayments, so I think he saw his pension as his only realistic option. Its not certain that Mr 
M would have wanted or be able to borrow from friends and family or that he could have 
entered a debt management plan which would have been sufficient to support him enough. I 
note that Mr M would have been able to release around £30,000 from the transfer in tax free 
cash, but still chose to take the maximum additional income available (over £6,000) even 
though it was taxed. And two years later, when he transferred his other DB scheme, he still 
had the same outstanding loan of £24,000. So I his financial difficulties possibly might have 
gone beyond the debts he told RBA about.
Ive also considered the information I have about what Mr M did in the following years. 
Mr M accessed his pension regularly and was withdrawing large sums. In April 2016, he 
requested a withdrawal of £25,000 to pay off a secured loan with monthly payments of 
around £500. Telephone notes from 2017 record Mr M said he had accrued debts of over 
£100,000 (Im assuming this included his outstanding mortgage) and he had two businesses 
over the year and had been made redundant and been out of a job for a long time. He was 
now working again. His new employer was providing a pension and together with his state 
pension that should be enough. He wanted to withdraw all his current pension (which had been funded with DB transfers in 2010 and 2012) over the next three to four years and pay 
off his mortgage. 
Taking all of the above into account I think on balance Mr M would have decided to transfer 
his DB pension in any event. I think even if RBA had provided him with better advice in 2010 
and he had fully understood the implications of what he was giving up, I dont think he had 
many alternatives to alleviate his financial struggles. Im satisfied from his letters that he did 
know taking money from his pension wasnt in his long-term best interest. And he decided 
his immediate needs were more important than a regular, guaranteed and higher income in 
retirement.
As I said above, I dont think Mr M would have fully understood the risks of his actions and 
the value of the benefits he was giving up. However, even if he had received full and clear 
information I think he would have likely seen this as his only real option and would have 
proceeded anyway.
Even if he had paused at that point and tried to get by for a bit longer, its clear that in the 
following years he needed lump sums again and remained in debt even after accessing lump 
sums and income from his pension. He was warned in 2016 to withdraw less income and 
was warned every time he made a withdrawal request that taking lump sums would increase 
the risk of running out of funds and could cause financial difficulty in later life. Mr M took 
large sums out regardless and in 2017 he even acknowledged and accepted he would 
deplete this pension over the following few years.
So I think on the balance of probabilities Mr M would have come out of his DB scheme 
eventually and spent the money on clearing his debts. I can also see on several occasions 
he was looking for lump sums to spend on his daughters wedding and visit her overseas. 
Summary
RBA failed in their obligations here and didnt treat Mr M fairly. However, I think even if they 
had acted appropriately, on balance Mr M would have left his DB scheme. Most likely in 
2010 and if not then at some point in the following years.
So I dont think Mr Ms potential losses he suffered by transferring out of his DB scheme are 
caused by RBAs flawed advice and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
RBA to compensate Mr M for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
RBA agreed with my decision. They mentioned that in November 2022 Mr M had requested 
to withdraw further funds and that he had insisted it was his money and that he could do 
what he wanted with it. RBA believes this supports their position that Mr Ms view was his 
pension fund was his and for him to use it as he wished. RBA also noted that they felt I 
applied more recent guidance on how to deal with insistent clients (the factsheet of 2015) to 
advice given in 2010 when there were no such requirements at the time.
Mr Ms representatives disagreed with my decision. In summary they said:
If Mr M had received suitable advice he wouldnt have accessed his DB scheme (as 
this wasnt possible at the time due to his age) and he wouldnt have transferred.
It was unreasonable to make the assumption RBA had provided Mr M with 
alternatives to obtaining funds to relieve his financial difficulties when the file 
suggests otherwise. They said my decision should be based on facts and not speculation. Its not clear which alternatives were explored at the time and Mr M says 
no alternatives were discussed. Mr M didnt approach other alternatives as these 
werent sufficiently explained to him.
Its evident RBAs advice prompted subsequent actions from Mr M. Mr M says he 
contacted RBA for drawdown advice on several occasions and withdrawals were 
dealt with swiftly and without issue. Whenever he needed funds he contacted RBA to 
facilitate the drawdown payments.
RBA continued to provide Mr M with unsuitable advice and should have highlighted 
the risks of accessing his pension in large increments. There was no obligation on 
RBA to facilitate the requests for Mr M if they didnt think they were in his best 
interest.
I should consider RBAs advice process and not speculate on subsequent actions 
that took place. It was RBA wo gave him the knowledge he could access his pension 
and who continued his requests for withdrawals.
I considered all further comments provided. However, my decisions remains the same. Ill 
explain why.
I note RBAs comments about what Mr M allegedly said to them more recently and how he 
insisted on accessing his money, however I havent seen any evidence of this and so I 
havent considered this in my decision. With regards to retrospective application of 2015 
guidance on insistent clients to advice given in 2010, I refer back to my provisional findings 
where I explained that this wasnt new guidance but a reminder for advisers. So I still do 
consider it relevant.
As I set out in my provisional decision, the advice process was flawed and RBA failed in their 
obligations to provide Mr M with all relevant information about the advantages of his DB 
scheme and the full risks of transferring out.
However, in order to hold them responsible for Mr Ms losses, I do need to consider whether 
RBAs failures in fact caused Mr Ms losses. And based on the evidence available Im not 
persuaded this is the case here.
I never said every available alternative was discussed in detail. But the suitability report sets 
out (and Mr Ms representatives have confirmed this was the situation at the time) that the 
most obvious alternatives like a re-mortgage, another loan or using any other available 
assets were considered as unavailable options.  And the suitability report made it clear that:
You should consider the depletion of your pension fund, simply to access the Tax Free Cash 
as a last resort. Your pension fund exists to help support a decent standard of living in your
retirement years. Before proceeding with this course of action you should therefore be 
satisfied that all other sources of obtaining the capital you require have been researched.
So I cant agree with Mr Ms statement now that no alternatives were discussed. I appreciate 
Mr Ms representatives saying he would have used a debt management plan or borrowed 
from family and friends if this had been explored. However, whilst I appreciate its quite 
possible this wasnt explicitly mentioned, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded 
these would have been viable routes for Mr M. As I explained previously, the way he 
accessed his pension and remained in debt despite receiving large amounts of cash 
indicates that his financial difficulty was more severe than he disclosed to the adviser.Im not speculating, but making a finding based on the evidence I have and what I think likely 
would have happened on the balance of probabilities. And I remain of the view, that Mr M 
likely would have transferred out of the DB scheme either immediately or at a later date even 
if he had received properly reasoned advice. Whilst there were clear failings in the advice I 
think Mr M would have understood that taking money now would not be in his long-term best 
interest. But I think he likely didnt have any other reasonable alternatives available to him.
Mr M approached RBA to explore accessing his pension. And I see no issue with them 
explaining this option to him. As I said the advice was flawed, but I think even with better 
advice Mr M would have eventually transferred out of his DB scheme.
Mr M was given warnings by RBA throughout the years to withdraw less income and was 
warned every time he made a withdrawal request that taking lump sums would increase the 
risk of running out of funds and could cause financial difficulty in later life. And he proceeded 
regardless even expressing in 2017 his plan to deplete his funds over the course of three 
years.
It's true that RBA could have refused to facilitate withdrawals. However, Mr M didnt need 
their assistance. He could have accessed his funds directly from his pension provider and 
given he wanted to access his funds and ignored RBAs warnings I think on the balance of 
probabilities he would have done so.
Overall, I think on the balance of probabilities having considered the evidence Ive seen and 
the facts of this case, I think Mr M would have transferred out of his DB scheme and 
accessed his pension like he has done even if he had received better advice. So it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to hold RBA responsible for Mr Ms current situation and any financial  
losses he suffered.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman