DRN-2597482
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that he 
signed in April 2017. Mr J has complained to the dealer about issues with the car since it 
was supplied to him and the dealer has tried to repair the car but the issues have continued. 
Mr J complained to the motor ombudsman and it issued its decision in July 2020. It was 
satisfied that Mr J did suffer a recurring fault with the car and it recommended that the dealer 
should refund £1,700 to him to acknowledge his loss of enjoyment and impaired use of the 
car. It also said that, as the car had been supplied to him by Ford Credit, he could also 
complain to it about his issues with the car.
Mr J complained to Ford Credit in August 2020 and it offered to refund 50% of the seven 
months instalment for the time that he had been without the car and an additional £150  so 
a total of £1,752.62 and which was in addition to the payment recommended by the motor 
ombudsman. Mr J arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in 
September 2020 and the expert concluded that, at the time of supply, the car was faulty and 
not free from defects and that the defects hadnt been repaired. 
Mr J returned the car to Ford Credit in October 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 
41,115. It was inspected by a third party on behalf of Ford Credit and damages charges of 
£216 and an excess mileage charge of £1,247.04 were recommended.
Mr J didnt accept the offer that had been made to him by Ford Credit and complained to this 
service. He says that he should receive a refund of the deposit he paid and all of the monthly 
payments, minus 15p per mile, plus interest, and £3,500 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. He 
recommended that Ford Credit should: refund Mr Js deposit of £3,000 and 10% of the 
finance instalments hed paid since April 2017, all with interest - but it should deduct the 
excess mileage charges; pay him £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
remove any adverse reports that it may have made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of these issues. He later said that it should also deduct the damages charges.
Ford Credit has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman and Mr J has 
responded to our investigators recommendations in detail. He says, in summary, that:
he had to use the car for work journeys but limited his personal and wouldnt allow 
his family to travel in this car due to the airbag failure, the excessive heat, and the 
boot not opening;
the percentage of the refund of his finance payments is too low, especially 
considering the nature of the faults and the airbag failure's seriousness and he had 
no option but to hand the car back at the end of the term; 
the compensation is too little as this situation has been going on since the car was 
supplied to him and the stress levels to his family and him over that period have been 
immeasurable; and 
the excess mileage charges should be cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ford Credit, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J - whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr J was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable 
for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
I consider it to be clear from the motor ombudsmans decision, the experts report 
and Ford Credits response to Mr Js complaint that there were faults with the car 
which were present when the car was supplied to him and continued with the car until 
he returned it and that the dealer was unable to repair those faults;
I havent considered the faults in any more detail in this decision but they have been 
described in our investigators recommendations;
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J and 
that, when the repairs werent successful, he should have been allowed to reject the 
car;
that didnt happen and Mr J continued to use the car until he returned it at the end of 
the agreement in October 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 41,115;
the agreement included approved annual mileage of 9,000 and set out the 8p plus 
VAT charge for excess mileage  Ford Credit says that Mr J had exceeded the 
approved mileage by 11,865 miles so charged him £1,247.04 for excess mileage and 
also charged him £216 for damage to the car that was identified when it was 
returned;
the car was with the dealer for repairs for a total of about seven months  but Mr J 
was provided with a courtesy car during those periods;
Mr J has described the effect of the issues on his use and enjoyment of the car  and 
I consider that those issues will have affected his enjoyment of the car  but he was 
able to drive 41,115 miles in the car and I consider that its fair and reasonable for 
him to pay for that use (subject to what Ive said below);
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Ford Credit to 
refund to him all of the monthly payments that he made for the car, but I agree with 
our investigators recommendation that it would be fair and reasonable for Ford 
Credit to refund to him 10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement, with interest, to compensate him for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car - I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the balance of the monthly 
payments as payment for the use that Mr J has had from the car;
as I consider that Mr J should have been allowed to reject the car, I dont consider 
that its fair and reasonable for Ford Credit to charge him for the excess mileage and 
damage  I consider that it should waive those charges;
if Mr J had been allowed to reject the car, I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect that he would have received a refund of the deposit that he paid for the car, 
with interest  the hire purchase agreement and invoice show that Mr J paid a 
deposit of £3,000 for the car and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Ford 
Credit to refund that deposit to him, with interest;
Mr J has described the distress and inconvenience that he and his family have been 
caused by the issues with the car  I sympathise with him for the issues that hes 
experienced but I agree with our investigators recommendation that £350 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused- 
and Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances; and
Ive seen no evidence to show that Ford Credit has recorded any adverse information 
about the hire purchase agreement on Mr Js credit file  but if it has recorded any 
such information I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove that 
information. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Ford Credit to take the actions described above 
and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and I order FCE Bank plc, trading as 
Ford Credit, to:
1. Refund to Mr J the deposit that he paid for the car.
2. Refund to Mr J 10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement as compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
4. Waive the excess mileage and damages charges.
5. Remove any adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Js credit file.
6. Pay £350 to Mr J to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ford Credit to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. Ford Credit must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021. Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman