DRN-2238859
The complaint
Miss L complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. Shes 
unhappy with the delay she experienced when she asked Barclays to process a chargeback.
What happened
Miss L purchased a sofa through an online retailer in March 2020. The sofa cost £760 and 
Miss L was told it would be delivered over the weekend of 21-22 March. When she 
experienced problems with the delivery, Miss L contacted Barclays and asked it to raise a 
chargeback. Miss L told us:
she was expecting the sofa to be delivered over the weekend of 21-22 March and 
shed been told shed receive confirmation of the date and time on 20 March;
the retailer cancelled the delivery on 20 March because its courier could no longer 
make any deliveries and it said it would refund her money;
she chased the online retailer for her money several times without success and on 
2 April, she raised a dispute with Barclays;
Barclays advised her to email details of her dispute because shed said she was 
unable to print any documents and complete an online chargeback claim;
on 6 May she contacted Barclays and was offered £50 compensation because of the 
delays she was experiencing, and she re-sent the key documents in respect of her 
claim; 
shes unhappy with the service Barclays provided; she says her claim took too long 
and there was no communication from Barclays about the delay. She says the delay 
along with some other unrelated matters relating to her credit card account have 
caused her stress, worry and anxiety.
Barclays rejected this complaint. It said it gave Miss L £50 compensation as a goodwill 
gesture because of the mistake it had made in April when it incorrectly allocated and 
processed Miss Ls documents. It says it realised its mistake in May when Miss L contacted 
it again and it was then able to progress her claim. It says it successfully completed the 
chargeback, crediting Miss Ls account with £760 in August 2020.
Barclays told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories of 
dispute were very seriously delayed. Its call centres were closed without notice and it had to 
reshuffle its workforce. It apologised for the inconvenience its customers experienced but 
said it had been outside its control.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said she thought Barclays couldve communicated better with Miss L and she acknowledged 
that the chargeback had taken some time to process. But she also acknowledged the impact 
the pandemic had had on Barclays operations. And, taking all this into account, she thought 
the £50 compensation paid by Barclays was fair and in line with what she wouldve 
recommended.
Miss L disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Miss L says shes prepared to 
give a certain amount of grace to companies in the current situation but she doesnt think 
five months delay is reasonable or that £50 compensation is satisfactory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Miss L received from Barclays. This is because although Miss L paid £760 for a sofa 
she never received and wasnt able to get a refund from the retailer, both parties have 
confirmed that £760 was credited to Miss Ls bank account in August 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Barclays to ask for a payment Miss L made to 
be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Miss L paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Miss L has ultimately not been provided with the goods that she 
originally paid for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect 
Barclays to raise a chargeback for her, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is 
covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Barclays to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. It had all the 
information it needed from Miss L by 2 April, but it didnt start the chargeback process until 
6 May 2020. Thereafter, the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes and 
the time taken for the money to reach Miss Ls account was in line with what I would expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Miss L. 
Shed ordered and paid a considerable sum for a sofa in early March 2020. And from what 
shes told us, her experience with the online retailer left a lot to be desired. It wouldnt 
confirm until the last minute when the sofa would be delivered. It then sent her an SMS 
message confirming the delivery was cancelled. And because she couldnt speak to anyone, 
Miss L had to resort to exchanging SMS messages with the retailer as she tried to seek 
information about her refund. Miss L provided screenshots from her mobile and I can 
understand the worry that the contradictory messages from the retailer wouldve caused. 
But I cant hold Barclays responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the online retailer 
who caused the initial problem here as it didnt give Miss L her money back when it seems it 
should have.I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Miss L first contacted Barclays, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Barclays has already paid Miss L £50 in recognition of the mistakes it made 
when she first contacted it and it failed to register her claim correctly. And although I 
wouldve expected Barclays to identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate 
help, from the information I have, I dont think Miss L fell into this category. Ive also noted 
that once Miss L contacted the bank again on 6 May, her chargeback was processed within 
the timescales that Barclays was reasonably able to offer its customer. So, for the reasons 
Ive given, I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint and I dont think Barclays needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman