DRN-3513302
The complaint
Ms H complains that she had an agreement with Provident Personal Credit Limited to make 
payments through its online portal. However, Ms H says that from August 2021 she wasnt 
able to do so.
Ms H is also unhappy her outstanding balance was passed to a third-party collection agency 
without any prior warning. Finally, Ms H is also unhappy with the interest rate that Provident 
has applied to the lending. 
What happened
The administration issues Ms H had, namely the outstanding balance being passed to a 
third-party collection agency without any warning concerned two loans.
 
1. £1,000 advanced on 29 August 2019 and
2. £900 advanced on 23 September 2019. 
The statement of account provided by Provident shows these loans had the outstanding loan 
balances written off on 1 September 2021  but this is likely to be the date that Provident 
passed the loans to the third-party collection agency. However, Provident has confirmed that 
the outstanding balance has now been fully written off. 
Ms H says she entered into an arrangement with Provident to make her payments through 
the online portal and her last repayment was made on 17 August 2021. Ms H says after this 
date she wasnt able to log into the portal because the system didnt recognise her account 
number. Ms H says when this happened, she contacted Provident by telephone and by 
email, but she didnt get a response. 
And when the debt was passed to the third party, Ms H says Provident acted unlawfully by 
not informing her of its intention of doing so. 
A complaint was raised to the third-party collection agency and it responded to Ms H on 
19 October 2021. It acknowledged her concerns but explained the subject matter of her 
complaint related to the actions of Provident. It therefore arranged for the complaint to be 
considered by it. 
On 28 October 2021 Provident responded to Ms Hs complaint in its final response letter. 
Provident explained the following.
The account was passed to a third-party collection agency because Ms Hs 
repayments werent being maintained. 
While a payment plan may have been agreed between Ms H and her agent that 
wouldnt have prevented Provident from taking the action that it did. 
It did uphold one element of the complaint because Provident didnt provide any 
advance notice of the transfer of her account to the third party. 
Provident couldnt find any record of Ms H contacting it about the issues that she was 
having, and it couldnt see any contact before she made her complaint.
It also didnt uphold her complaint about the loan interest because the interest was 
front loaded, and the credit agreement wouldve displayed the information about the 
interest rate that would be charged. 
Unhappy with this response Ms H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he said it shouldnt be upheld. He didnt think 
Provident was acting unlawfully when it transferred the debt to the third-party debt 
management company. 
He also said, due to a lack of evidence he couldnt find anything to suggest the payment 
portal was closed without reason and so couldnt uphold this element of the complaint. 
Finally, as neither Provident nor Ms H were able to provide copies of the emails, she says 
were sent he couldnt conclude Provident hadnt responded to Ms H. The only evidence 
Provident provided were screen shots showing when letters wouldve been generated to 
Ms M telling her that her account was in arrears. But copies of those actual letters havent 
been provided so he couldnt say what they may (or may not) have told her about the arrears 
on the account and what action it may take.  
The adjudicator confirmed that the outstanding balances had been returned from the third 
party to Provident and the debt has been written off  so there was no risk of this happening 
again. 
Provident didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Ms H disagreed with the outcome. She said, her emails are deleted weekly and so she didnt 
have copies of them. She also reiterated that her main complaint was Provident passing her 
complaint to the third party without providing notification. She also provided a screen shot 
showing her final payment to Provident on 17 August 2021. 
The adjudicator went back and explained why his outcome hadnt changed following Ms Hs 
most recent comments. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
After the complaint was passed to me, further questions were asked of Provident about what 
had happened and in summary it said;
Ms H did have an agreed reduced rate of payment with Provident. Initially, following 
Provident being informed of her health issues it applied a £0 weekly rate, before 
agreeing to a new rate running for 29 weeks. 
At the end of the 29-week rate, the reduced rate continued on an informal basis until 
the account was passed to the third party. 
Provident said the payments were made by card payments through her agent. 
Provident reiterated that Ms H hadnt maintained the agreed rate and that is why the 
account was passed to the third party. 
The transfer to the third party wasnt a mistake but an error was made as it didnt 
notify her that the account would be passed. 
However, Provident says Ms H received a number of arrears letters and it says that 
in those letters it stated there was an option for Provident to pass the account to a 
third party. 
Provident confirmed no default has been recorded on Ms Hs credit file but it did 
report the two loan accounts as being in arrears. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything that has been provided by Provident and Ms H Ive decided 
not to uphold her complaint and Ive outlined my reasons below. 
It may help if I outline my role. My role, is to consider the evidence that both Provident and 
Ms H have provided and then decide whether, based on that evidence something may (or 
may not) have gone wrong. Ultimately, Im determining this case on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable, which is what my remit requires me to do.  
Ive also set out the decision under a number of headings to deal with Ms Hs concerns. 
Passing the debt to a third part
The first thing to say that is that due to Provident no longer offering new loans some of the 
information that may have been previously available is no longer free to be passed to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. For example, some notes have been able to be provided but 
these are central notes. Any notes or records that were made at a local level  for example 
contact with the agent are no longer available. 
Equally, Ms H has told us that her emails are deleted on a weekly basis so that means some 
of the evidence (like Provident) that may have been useful is no longer available so Ive had 
to consider what I think it most likely to have occurred together with the evidence that has 
been provided. 
It is quite clear, both from the final response letter and the response to the question the 
Financial Ombudsman asked Provident, that an error was made. It has accepted that when 
the account was passed to the third party no specific notice was sent to Ms H. 
This would back up what Ms H says and is the main reason why she complained to both the 
third party and to Provident. 
Provident has acknowledged in the most recent information it has provided that Ms H was on 
reduced payment rate  in effect she was on a repayment plan. I can see, from the limited 
notes I have that in March 2020 Ms H contacted Provident and gave an update on her health 
issues. At this point Provident did place a freeze on the account. This seems to have been a 
fair and reasonable course of action. 
Then, from the start of April, Ms H appeared to be making repayments to Provident every 
other week  and each repayment seems to have been about 50% of the value that she was 
contracted to pay. I can see that this arrangement carried out until the point the account was 
passed to the third party. 
So, to me it seems, that Ms H hadnt made her contractual repayments for around 18 
months, and there does appear, given the limited notes that I have, that there were valid 
reasons for this. But that still mean the account was in arrears and had been for some time. 
Therefore, given this, I dont think Provident was wrong to have passed the outstanding 
balance to the third party. This is an option that always remains open to a lender. 
Provident says the arrears letters, which I can see from a list provided by Provident, were 
sent. But copies of the actual arrears letters havent been provided. So, I cant be sure these letters warned Ms H that if she didnt return to contractual repayments this could lead to her 
account being passed to a third party.
However, it is common industry practice for accounts to be passed to a third party after a 
prolonged period of time where contractual payments werent made. So, I agree that 
Provident more likely than not didnt make an error when the account was passed to the third 
party. However, there clearly has been an error because Provident has already accepted it 
didnt provide any advance warning of the transfer.  
Ive thought carefully about this point, and its clear, from what shes told us that Ms H wasnt 
sure what was going on (why she couldnt make repayments) and these concerns may have 
been lessened had Provident told her what was happening with her accounts.  
But being told the account was being passed to a third party wouldnt have stopped it from 
happening. So, I dont think Ms H has been materially disadvantaged by Provident not telling 
her about it passing the account to the third party. 
Overall, while I dont doubt it was distressing to find that Ms H couldnt make her payments 
as expected, I dont think, given the lack of information, that I can make an any award 
against Provident in this case. 
Its worth noting here, and as the adjudicator confirmed, the two outstanding balances have 
been passed back to Provident and been written off and so no further payment is due and 
Ms H ought to not be contacted by any third party about the outstanding balance again. 
Payment Portal
Ms H has provided evidence in the form of a screen shot that she had made her online 
payment and the screen shot of the receipt supports this as well.  So, given the receipt I 
have, supplied by Ms H, the payment on 17 August 2021 was made through either a portal 
or some other online process. 
Ms H says after this payment she contacted Provident to find out why she couldnt make any 
further repayments, but she didnt get an answer and couldnt reach anyone. As Ive already 
explained its difficult for me to come to any firm conclusions about this when neither party 
has any evidence to show what sort of contact was made and how frequent it was. 
I do consider it more likely than not Ms H couldnt make any further online payments 
because Provident was in the process of transferring her account to the third party. But I 
want to be clear, this is just speculation and I cant be sure of this. But this would seem 
logical and reasonable given we know that shortly after this payment the account was 
passed to a third party  most likely sometime around the beginning of September 2021. 
I dont doubt that the method of payment Ms H was using may have been unsuccessful, but 
unfortunately both parties havent supplied me with enough information to be able to say, 
with any degree of reasonableness and certainty, that something went wrong here. 
Interest rate
Provident explained in the final response letter how the interest rate wouldve been 
explained to Ms H. However, copies of the credit agreement for these two loans havent 
been provided to us. But it is my understanding, and from my experience of working similar cases, that Im aware 
the interest rate and the total charge for the credit wouldve likely been outlined within the 
credit agreement that Ms H wouldve agreed to. 
In addition, as with this form of credit, Ms H wouldve likely received a two-week cooling off 
period where she couldve returned the loan plus any accrued interest. The fact that this 
didnt happen suggests to me that Ms H was happy with the loans and didnt have any 
concerns, at the time, about the interest rate. 
It is also worth saying that based on the contact notes Provident provided, there does 
appear to have been some discussion about the interest rate between Ms H and Provident in 
November 2020. But the notes arent detailed enough to know exactly what Ms H was told 
about this  at the time.  
I think its likely, given the requirements to provide this information to Ms H, that she was 
aware of the interest rate applied to these loans and how much it would cost for her to 
service and repay these loans. I accept looking back, Ms H now may think the rate was too 
high but Ive not seen anything to suggest that Provident hasnt applied the rate or the 
amount of interest to the loan that it said it would. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen I dont think I can uphold Ms Hs complaint any further than 
what Provident did in the final response letter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman