DRN-4392736
The complaint
Mr B has complained that the broker Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (AF) failed to 
deal with his request for a pro rata refund when his car was declared a total loss. Mr B 
claimed directly against the third party insurer and so didnt make a claim against his car 
insurance policy. 
Mr B is being represented in his complaint by Mr D. 
What happened
Mr B bought a car insurance policy through a broker, AF in May 2022.
In August 2022 he was involved in an incident with a third party vehicle. The third party 
insurer (TPI) dealt with Mr Bs claim directly and so he didnt claim against his policy. 
Mr Bs car was declared a total loss. He provided us with a copy letter from the TPI dated 17 
January 2023 confirming this. The TPI asked Mr B to confirm if he wanted to accept the total 
loss settlement offered. 
Mr B also provided us with a copy of letters he says he sent to AF dated 29 March 2023 and 
on 11 May 2023 (where Mr B enclosed a copy of his letter dated 29 March 2023). 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint in June 2023 as he hadnt received a response from 
AF. Mr B wanted a pro rata refund of his premium. 
We contacted AF and it issued a final response letter to Mr B on 26 June 2023. It didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it didnt receive notice that Mr B wanted to cancel the policy 
until 16 May 2023. As the policy was due to lapse on 20 May 2023, it allowed the policy to 
lapse. It didnt arrange a refund. 
AF incorrectly referred to Mr Bs letter dated 11 May 2023 as an email of 16 May 2023 when 
replying to Mr Bs complaint.
Our Investigator found that AFs file notes showed it discussed Mr Bs complaint with the 
insurer in June 2023 after we contacted it. The insurer had advised that if Mr B could provide 
it with proof of the date he received payment for the total loss of his car and that he no 
longer owned the car, it would backdate the cancellation. 
The Investigator thought AF had acted unreasonably in failing to follow this up with Mr B, 
given his complaint was that he hadnt received a pro rata refund - and AF had received Mr 
Bs letter dated 11 May 2023 on 16 May 2023. 
The Investigator explained that the insurer is a separate business that is responsible for  
dealing with Mr Bs request for a refund of premiums. For AFs failure to share information 
with Mr B and the insurer about Mr Bs request - and what was needed to progress matters 
for him - he recommended AF pay Mr B £75 compensation. 
The Investigator explained that there was no record of AF receiving Mr Bs letter dated 29 
March 2023 (before the copy attached to his letter dated 11 May 2023) . 
AF accepted the Investigators findings. Mr D on behalf of Mr B didnt agree. In summary he 
says this service has not acted impartially. He says AF has acted negligently and hasnt 
treated Mr B fairly. Mr D wants us to deal with both the insurer and AF under this complaint. 
Mr D says Mr B will only accept the outcome if AF pays £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, and the insurer confirms it will backdate the cancellation. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt any evidence AF received Mr Bs letter dated 29 March 2023 around that time. 
This doesnt mean I dont believe that Mr B sent it. 
AF did however confirm it received Mr Bs chaser letter dated 11 May 2023, which enclosed 
a copy of his letter dated 29 March 2023 requesting the cancellation and pro rata refund.  
AF stated in its final response to Mr B dated 26 June 2023 that it received an email from Mr 
B on 16 May 2023 and this has understandably caused confusion - as its file notes show it 
received post on 16 May 2023, being Mr Bs letter dated 11 May 2023. Mr D says Mr B 
doesnt communicate by email, only by letter and phone. 
Mr D says AF has treated Mr B poorly. I agree that AF has made failings in its 
communication with Mr B, and failed to properly assist him with his request. I think it should 
have provided the insurer with the information Mr B gave it about his car, because once it 
was declared a total loss and Mr B no longer owned the car, there was no insurable interest. 
Or alternatively, it should have promptly responded to Mr B and given clear guidance as to 
what he needed to do. 
I understand Mr D wants us to include the insurer in this complaint. But we cannot do this as 
the insurer is a separate legal entity. I can only consider the complaint against AF in my 
decision. 
The insurer is responsible for claims handling. Mr B has provided a copy letter from the TPI 
dated 17 January 2023 which confirms it intends to settle his claim as a total loss. If Mr B 
can provide proof of payment for the total loss settlement to the insurer and proof he no 
longer owns the vehicle, in line with AFs notes, the insurer intends to backdate the 
cancellation of Mr Bs policy. 
Mr B is entitled to raise a separate complaint against the insurer if he wishes to do so. If he 
is unhappy with the outcome, he can bring his concerns to this service.
Mr D has mentioned phone calls with AF on 14 September 2022 and 11 October 2022. He 
says Mr B was promised an update, but didnt receive one. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call on 11 October 2022 where Mr B explained that he had 
spoken to the underwriter on 14 September 2022 and had been advised that AF was dealing 
with his claim. AF said it had no record of the 14 September call, but it would look into Mr Bs 
request and update him. 
AFs records show it called Mr B back to provide an update on 18 October 2022 and left a 
voicemail message. It did so again on 19 October 2022. Mr B called AF back on 19 October 
2022 about the missed call. AF advised the claim had been closed. Mr B said his car still had 
damage - the notes show AF transferred Mr B to the claims team.So I think AF failed to act on Mr Bs request for information about the cancellation of his 
policy. It should have promptly relayed his request to the insurer when it received this on 16 
May 2023. 
For this I think AF should pay Mr B £75 compensation. I think it caused avoidable delay for 
him. 
I appreciate that Mr D on behalf of Mr B doesnt agree with this amount. He says Mr Bs 
losses are much more, but hasnt provided evidence to show what these losses are. So I 
think the award of £75 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by AFs poor service 
is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Adrian Flux Insurance Services 
Group to pay Mr B £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
Adrian Flux should forward a copy of the letter from the TPI dated 17 January 2023 to the 
insurer and ask it to deal with Mr Bs request. 
It is for Mr B to provide the insurer with proof of payment for the total loss settlement and 
proof he no longer owns the vehicle. 
Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman