DRN-2040333
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined his chargeback 
request.
What happened
In December 2019 and January 2020 Mr M made four deposits into his account with an 
online gambling company (the company). But the company wouldnt let Mr M make any 
withdrawals from his account. So he put in a chargeback request with NatWest, asking then 
to reverse the deposit transactions. But NatWest wouldnt make the claim.
Mr M is unhappy that NatWest have refused to deal with his chargeback request, and hes 
asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator said that a chargeback isnt a right, and that card issuers dont have to do 
this. And this includes where the card issuer feels that a chargeback will have little chance of 
success. Because the company dont have a licence to operate in the UK, the investigator 
thought NatWest had acted reasonably  he thought the chances of the money being 
recovered by NatWest was low. So he didnt think NatWest should overturn their decision.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He thinks NatWest shouldve investigated this as 
fraud if they didnt think there was any prospect of success. And hes said that, if NatWest 
had tried to get his money back and were unsuccessful, hed have understood this. But hes 
unhappy they didnt even try. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M made four deposits  two in December 2019 and two in January 2020  into his 
account with the company. Its not disputed that he made these deposits, and the money 
wasnt taken from his account without his knowledge and authority. But the Gambling 
Commission have since confirmed to Mr M that the company dont have a licence to operate 
in the UK and arent regulated by them.
Mr M raised a chargeback request when he wasnt able to withdraw his money from his 
account with the company, and after hed emailed them about this without response. But 
banks dont have to raise chargebacks. So, while I appreciate that Mr M wanted NatWest to 
make the attempt, because the deposits were made to a company that werent licenced or 
regulated to operate in the UK, NatWest assessed that the prospects of success were too 
low for them to consider making the claim. 
Chargebacks are voluntary, so I dont think NatWest have done anything wrong by having 
criteria in place for making this type of claim. And it isnt the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide what policies financial business should have in place. This is 
a decision NatWest can make in line with its regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority.
So, where NatWest think it looks clear that the cardholder would lose, then then they wont 
raise a chargeback claim. And I dont think theyve acted unfairly by making this decision in 
the circumstances. 
Mr M has also said that, given these circumstances, then NatWest shouldve investigated 
this as a fraud matter. But the money wasnt taken from his account without authority - Mr M 
made multiple deposits to his account with the company. And the money went into his 
account. The problem Mr M encountered was when he tried to withdraw funds from his 
account. And how he can make withdrawals would be determined by the terms and 
conditions of his account with the company.
Not being able to withdraw because of the terms of an account doesnt make the original 
deposits fraudulent. So I dont think NatWest have done anything wrong by not treating 
these as such. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman