DRN-3050397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) delayed releasing the funds for 
their mortgage. They say this caused them financial loss and significant stress.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage on their property via a broker. The mortgage was for 
around £620,000 to be repaid over 18 years. The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 1.74% 
over five years, after which time it would revert to a standard variable rate.
The mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs Bs existing property. The parties have given 
us copies of the mortgage documents, correspondence and internal notes and screenshots.
Mr and Mrs B say the mortgage was due to complete and the funds released on 
16 September 2019. But on that day, they were sent an email by the conveyancing solicitors 
letting them know it wouldnt be going ahead. Theyve provided emails to show they chased 
the solicitors and Barclays regularly to keep things moving. And on 2 October 2019, the 
mortgage completed so the funds were released. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs B have said 
they borrowed money from family and had to pay around £109 per day in interest on the 
amount borrowed.
Barclays has said the funds werent released as planned on 16 September 2019 because 
Mr and Mrs B had sold a small section of their land and this hadnt been taken into account 
by the surveyor when the property was valued. But its given us screenshots to show the 
information was passed to the surveyor to consider following the mortgage application. So it 
doesnt think its responsible for the delay. Mr and Mrs B say it made Barclays aware of the 
sale of the land in their mortgage application so it shouldnt have delayed things so late on.
The solicitors asked for further information about the land on 24 September 2019 and 
Barclays says it provided it within a reasonable time. So it doesnt think its responsible for 
any delays that happened  and directed Mr and Mrs B to complain to the solicitors and 
surveyor directly.
 As the complaint wasnt resolved, Mr and Mrs B asked our service to look into things. They 
say as their contract is with Barclays and, the other parties were working on Barclays behalf, 
it should take responsibility for any delays caused. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as he didnt think Barclays should be responsible for the other parties actions. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. I explained I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld in summary because:
I thought the delay to the funds being released had been caused by the surveyor not 
considering the piece of land that was being sold when valuing Mr and Mrs Bs property.
I was satisfied Mr and Mrs B had made Barclays aware of the land to be sold when they 
submitted their application and that Barclays had provided the correct information to the 
surveyor. 
When the details about the land sale were transferred to the surveyors system, it didnt 
show up fully as it was automatically copied to the wrong section and the details given by 
the broker were too long. And I didnt think Barclays was responsible for this.
There was a slight delay in Barclays providing information when the solicitors asked for it 
after the completion date was missed. But I didnt think the time it took was 
unreasonable. 
Whilst I understood Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the customer service theyd 
received from their solicitors  who they also thought had caused delays  I didnt think 
Barclays was responsible for this. And I didnt think the solicitors were acting on its 
behalf when representing Mr and Mrs B. 
I didnt think it is unreasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B wouldve built flexibility into other 
transactions they planned which relied on these funds being in their account in order to 
minimise any financial losses. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Barclays said it had no further comments to make. Mr and Mrs B didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, having considered the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr and Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman