DRN-3561964
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc refuses to refund payments he 
made to a binary options investment scam.
 
What happened
Around April 2018 Mr H saw an online article about investing in Cryptocurrency with a 
company called Golden Markets. The article was endorsed by well-known celebrities. Mr H 
invested a small amount of €250 via another banking provider (Bank A). Mr H was contacted 
by an account manager for Golden Markets (Luke) and was told that if he invested more 
money hed get better returns. Luke told Mr H that it was extremely low risk and this 
prompted Mr H to invest a further £2,500 (via his account with Bank A).
On 12 April 2018, Golden Markets asked Mr H to provide copies of his address and 
identification verification, which he duly did. He was also asked to download the programme 
AnyDesk, which would allow Luke to access his computer and show him how to trade. Luke 
and other account managers at Golden Markets would contact Mr H and encourage him to 
deposit further funds and explained the more he deposited, hed be offered better deals and 
account packages. 
On 23 April 2018, Mr H received an email from Golden Markets offering a major trading 
chance on British Pound Sterling. They advised it was a golden opportunity to make quick 
market trades with substantial profits. On Lukes advice, Mr H invested €5,800 using his 
Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card. At this time, Mr H was concerned that he would be 
unable to get his money back, so he asked Luke if he could withdraw some of his profits and 
Mr H was permitted to withdraw €3,000, which was returned to his Marks & Spencer 
Mastercard credit card on 25 April 2018.
 
During the month of May 2018, Mr H was pressured by Luke to invest more money so that 
he could receive better returns and he duly did so using his Bank A bank account. 
On 6 June 2018, Luke telephoned Mr H and promised low risk trades with high yield returns 
if he invested further funds. Mr H deposited €5,500 using his Marks & Spencer Mastercard 
credit card. Luke telephoned Mr H again and requested that he deposit further funds (again 
with the promise of high returns and low risk) and he duly deposited a further €2,500 from 
his Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card. Shortly after this payment, Luke told Mr H hed 
made significant losses and he didnt hear from Golden Markets for a month. 
On 9 July 2018, another account manager for Golden Markets (Daniel) called Mr H and 
advised he would call him the following day to discuss some trades. Mr H heard nothing 
more.  
Mr H emailed Luke and other account managers at Golden Markets that had contacted him 
in the preceding months to ask why no one had been in touch. He was concerned hed lost 
everything. 
Mr H was telephoned by Luke on 31 July 2018 and was told that hed have to deposit further 
funds in order to recoup his losses. Mr H deposited further funds via his Bank A bank 
account on the instruction of Luke. Mr H heard nothing further until he contacted Luke on 14 
August 2018 and he received a response from Ray at Golden Markets - who advised he was 
Lukes manager  letting him know that Luke was away on a personal matter. Mr H queried 
why particular trades that were supposed to be closed were still open and had made 
significant losses. Luke responded on the same email thread explaining Yes Im aware and 
Im already restructuring a trading plan for the entire group suffering these trades. We will 
advise shortly, be sure!. 
Mr H heard nothing further despite contacting Luke and Ray again. Mr H then received an 
email from Golden Markets to induce him to deposit further funds. Ray contacted Mr H to 
advise that Luke had been promoted and Vincent would be taking over his account. On 31 
August 2018, Vincent called Mr H and encouraged him to deposit more funds to recoup his 
losses and Mr H deposited €1,900 using his Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card, he 
also deposited more money via his Bank A bank account. Mr H heard nothing further and 
noted his Golden Markets trading account made a loss of €30,000. 
Mr H deposited further funds using his Bank A bank account on Vincents instructions that 
hed recoup his losses for him.
 
On 14 September 2018, Mr H received an email from Vincent advising that Golden Markets 
trading platform was going through a major overhaul and needed everyone to close all 
trades until they re-opened. Mr H opted not to do this as his trades were losing a 
considerable amount. He asked Vincent for guarantees and this was not received, so he 
didnt close his trades.
 
Mr H lost access to his trading account and contacted Vincent to find out why he couldnt 
access it. Mr H received a call from Vincent asking him to invest more money and to find this 
anyway he could (including remortgaging his home). Mr H explained to Vincent he didnt 
want to close his trades but despite this, his trades were closed anyway. 
On 21 September 2018, Mr Hs new Golden Markets account was opened with a balance of 
€116,850 (his previous balance transferred over). He received further calls from Vincent 
pressuring him to deposit more money as he was losing money. In the coming months, Mr H 
deposited more money using his Bank A accounts on the promise that his losses will be 
recouped.
Around November 2018, Mr H disputed the payments with Bank A and Marks & Spencer. In 
December 2018 and to support with his dispute claims, Mr H asked Golden Markets to close 
his account and withdraw his available balances. Golden Markets declined on the basis that 
Mr H hadnt met the required trading volume as his account was credited with bonus 
payments.
 
Marks & Spencer advised Mr H that no chargeback rights applied to the transactions under 
Mastercards chargeback scheme. It also didnt consider that s.75 applied to the payments 
as the deposit of funds onto a binary options trading account was not the purchase of goods 
or services. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint. She noted that the first two payments were 
sent via payment processors and this didnt break the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain. She suggested that Marks & Spencer return the payments in dispute plus associated 
transaction fees together with interest. 
Mr H accepted but Marks & Spencer did not. It said in summary:It is very difficult to follow the basis on which our Investigator concluded that there 
was a misrepresentation and/or breach of contract for the purposes of s.75;
The assertions made in support of s.75 liability are entirely generic, and not specific 
to this case;
The purported representations allegedly made to Mr H are not sufficiently clearly set 
out, nor is it shown that these induced Mr H to make each of the Payments; and
It is unclear what contractual terms are said to have been breached, or how these 
formed part of the contractual relationship between Mr H and Golden Markets.
The case has been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered that Mr H had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits chargeback options for investment or gambling 
transactions. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint on the 
basis that Marks & Spencer is liable to him under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set 
out what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved in each of the payments:
1. Mr H (the debtor)
2. Marks & Spencer (the creditor); 3. Golden Markets (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Hs Marks & Spencer statement and 
correspondence. 
Ive noted the initial two payments were sent via payment processors. Our Investigator 
provided evidence in support of the merchants acting as payment processors. Where a 
payment processor is used in a credit card transaction, it doesnt break the debtor-creditor-
supplier chain, it just creates a four-party agreement. Weve published final decisions on this 
issue. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr H has 
deposited funds in exchange for being able to fund an investment on an investment platform 
and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the exchange of money in 
return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied that payment constitutes a separate 
transaction for each deposit (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) as defined by the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr H had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund each deposit-transaction and obtain the 
investment this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear that each deposit-transaction was 
financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mr Hs claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels he was 
tricked into depositing the payments with Golden Markets for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr H to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr H does not believe that Golden Markets was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Mr H was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Mr H was told by Golden Markets matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick him into entering into each deposit-transaction, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation. Or, if Golden Markets made binding promises to him as part of that 
transaction and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Marks & Spencer said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, they were 
a credit to his trading account. I take this to mean that the deposits were nothing more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the 
money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
Golden Markets has made contractual promises in exchange for each deposit-transaction 
and Mr H has provided a detailed account of what was promised in respect of each deposit-
transaction. Marks & Spencer in its refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the 
Act itself. It is important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or 
services nor is there anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of 
transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to each Marks & Spencer 
credit card deposit-transaction. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr H has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr H has made a claim of misrepresentation by Golden Markets  that claim being 
that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr H into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that Golden Markets was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - 
one in which Mr H could have ever received back more money than he deposited, then it 
follows that any statements made by Golden Markets to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr H could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Hs account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Mr Hs communication with Golden Markets that they did claim that Mr H could have 
made money from the trading platform. 
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr H known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of his 
not investing with Golden Markets. Consequently, should I be satisfied that Golden Markets 
isnt operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mr Hs account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against this particular merchant. Because of 
this Im minded to find his account to be truthful.So, turning to his account, I note that he mentioned coming into contact with Golden Markets 
via an online advert endorsed by celebrities. Mr H says Golden Markets promised him large 
returns with a dedicated account manager who would guide him through his trades. When 
he was complying with Golden Markets requests to fund the trading account, he was sent 
promotional emails with one time deals or a huge opportunity to earn big profits with 
further investments in order to induce him into making further deposits. But once Mr H used 
all of his savings and available credit, his trading account began to suffer losses. Golden 
Markets assured Mr H that they would recoup his losses if only he took out more credit to 
deposit onto his trading account. And once he deposited more money, hed be able to make 
withdrawals. Whilst most of these representations happened mostly over the phone with 
Luke and Vincent (his Golden Markets account managers), Mr H has provided email 
evidence of the promotional offers, requests for further payments and the promise of 
withdrawals upon receipt of further payments. 
I did find it curious that Mr H was given a refund from Golden Markets and Ive considered 
this very carefully as it does complete the story of Mr Hs overall agreement with them. 
I find this is a common way of merchants providing assurances to consumers that they will 
see returns on their investments and acts as an inducement to deposit more money. And in 
Mr Hs case, a way of persuading him that they were legitimate  in turn encouraging Mr H to 
deposit more money on the belief that he would get it back.
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by Golden Markets. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual 
trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact Golden 
Markets offered little more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted the following: 
The Financial Conduct Authority published a scam warning about Golden Markets on 
25 May 2018. 
On 4 March 2019, the Financial Market Authority in Austria published an alert on the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions Investor Alerts Portal. 
Golden Markets is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also 
several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr H. 
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
using credit - as Golden Markets did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the wiping out of Mr Hs account balances after hed invested all his available 
savings and credit - again a point repeated across many complaints against similar firms. If I 
find that Golden Markets was not operating a legitimate enterprise, it makes no material 
difference that Mr H lost his available balances as it would not have been Golden Markets 
intention to enable Mr H to profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Golden Markets was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Mr H  specifically 
that they were running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever have got back 
more than his deposits or indeed recoup losses from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr 
H had known this, he wouldnt have deposited any money, which includes each Marks & 
Spencer deposit-transaction, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to each deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred the transaction fees couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fees were a direct consequence of each deposit-transaction. 
As the payments were made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Mr H to 
make the deposits would attach a fee for converting each of the payments. So, Im satisfied 
Mr Hs payments of the transaction fees were consequential losses in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Mr H has deposited funds in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that Golden Markets had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr H to use the funds from his deposit-transaction on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mr H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
It would appear at the time Mr H requested his trading account be closed and a withdrawal 
of his money, hed lost most of the funds on his trading account. He did have bonuses added 
to his trading account but these appear to have been linked to contractual conditions that 
had not been met. In any event, Mr H stated he had a negative account balance when he 
tried to withdraw his available funds, so I think its likely he had no money left in his trading 
account. 
Unlike our Investigator, I do not agree that a breach of contract has occurred. Whilst this 
differs to our Investigators initial opinion, it makes no material difference to the outcome 
because I agree with our Investigator that a claim for misrepresentation has been 
established. 
Putting things right
Ive established one ground Mr H could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Golden Markets made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they were operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr H could earn a profit from his 
deposit-transactions. Im also satisfied that the deposit-transaction fees meet the test 
for consequential losses in misrepresentation as they wouldnt have been incurred 
but for each deposit-transaction. They were also direct and foreseeable losses as a 
result of each deposit-transaction.
 
Marks & Spencer should put Mr H back into the position he would have been had the 
deposit-transactions of £13,814.23 had not been entered into and the transaction fees 
totalling £413.05 had not been charged by Marks & Spencer. So, he should receive refunds 
of these amounts, less any amounts credited to his Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card 
by Golden Markets.
My final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc should:
Refund each deposit-transaction, less any amounts credited to Mr Hs Marks & 
Spencer account by Golden Markets; 
Refund the transaction fees; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Marks & Spencer deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman