DRN-1933089
The complaint
Mr B complains Monzo Bank Limited has closed his account unfairly.
What happened
Mr B opened a current account with Monzo in January 2019. Hed had a number of accounts 
with other businesses, and a poor credit file as well as a CIFAS marker against his name. 
The account allowed Mr B to block gambling transactions  a feature Mr B used extensively 
as he has problems with gambling.
At the end of March 2020, Mr B complained to us that Monzo had given him two months 
notice of its intention to close his account. Mr B was very upset as he says Monzo had just 
put in place arrangements to make sure his account would run smoothly. He said that Monzo 
had decided to close his account because of another complaint wed looked at.
Monzo said that it hadnt acted unfairly when it had taken the decision to close his account. 
Mr B said he was unhappy with Monzos response, so we looked into his complaint.
Our investigator thought that Monzo had acted unfairly and said that it should keep his 
account open as Mr B would also find it very difficult  given his credit file and banking 
history  to open up an account elsewhere. They recommended that Monzo pay Mr B £400 
in compensation too. Monzo didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. So I was 
asked to consider this complaint.
I contacted both parties about this complaint and, having done so, I said that I didnt think 
Monzo had acted unfairly when it decided to close Mr Bs account. I told both parties that I 
would issue a decision with reasons and thats what Im doing now. 
Mr B disagreed with what Id said and sent me additional information about the impact of the 
closure. Ive taken this additional information, as well as Mr Bs comments, into account, 
along with all the other available evidence and arguments, before issuing this decision. Hes 
recently been able to open a basic account with another business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo gave Mr B two months notice of its intention to close his account. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs account say that this is something Monzo is entitled to do. The term is a 
standard one, used throughout the industry. That doesnt mean we cant look into Mr Bs 
complaint that his account was closed unfairly. We can and do look into complaints like this.
Our investigator thought that Monzo had closed Mr Bs account because of another 
complaint wed looked at. They didnt think this was fair. Having looked at all the evidence, I 
dont agree that Monzo closed Mr Bs account because of what wed said about another 
complaint. Ill explain why and what this means.
I can see that Mr B has had problems with gambling, and that the gambling block Monzo 
offers has at times been of real help to him. I can, however, also see that Monzo had 
genuine concerns that the block was no longer helping Mr B, and was not working as 
intended. In addition, I can see that Mr B had very significant amounts of contact with 
Monzos customer services team and that not all of those conversations went well. I can see 
that Monzo decided that its relationship with Mr B had become unsustainable as a result. 
Monzo did so having taken into account the additional support Mr B might be expected to 
need given his vulnerabilities. Im satisfied, based on the evidence that Monzo took into 
account, that its decision to terminate its relationship with Mr B wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable. Monzo made a large number of significant adjustments in an effort to support 
Mr B and his needs. The relationship, despite these adjustments, became unsustainable.
Mr B has recently opened a basic account with another business, but this wasnt 
straightforward. Thats in part because of his credit file and banking history, including a 
CIFAS marker against his name. Mr B has been taking steps to clean up his credit file, and 
to remove some of the adverse information from it. I took the difficulties Mr B might have 
opening an account elsewhere into account when deciding whether or not I should tell 
Monzo to keep his account open. One of the reasons, but not the only reason, why Mr B has 
problems with his credit file is his problems with gambling. In this particular case, I dont think 
its fair to say that Monzo should have to keep Mr Bs account open given that Mr B has had 
problems with gambling for a number of years. I know my decision will be a huge 
disappointment to Mr B, who has had been hit extremely hard by recent events.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman