DRN-3781745
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Capital 
Consumer Finance (Hitachi), hasnt treated her fairly following a problem she had with a 
timeshare bought using a Hitachi loan.
What happened
Mrs B, along with her husband, bought a trial membership from a timeshare provider in 
2019. Under the terms of that trial membership, they were able to take five weeks of holidays 
in a three year period. The cost of the membership was £4,395 and Mrs B paid for it by 
taking out a loan with Hitachi.
In 2020, Mrs B complained to Hitachi as she wasnt able to use her timeshare due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. So she didnt think it was fair to remain paying for her loan when she 
couldnt use the product bought with it. So Mrs B asked Hitachi to cancel the loan as she 
didnt want to pay for something she couldnt use. She also said that she wanted to cancel 
the product after hearing about a serious accident at one of the timeshare providers resorts.
Hitachi looked into the complaint, but said that it wouldnt cancel the loan agreement. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Bs complaint and thought she was effectively making 
a claim under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She noted 
that the timeshare provider had extended the time for holidays to be taken due to the 
pandemic and concluded that any claims made under the CCA were not likely to have been 
successful. So she didnt think Hitachi needed to do anything further.
Mrs B responded to say she disagreed with the view. She said that she didnt think she was 
making a claim under the CCA and in fact wasnt asking for a refund of any kind from 
Hitachi. Instead she wished to cancel the agreement she has with the timeshare provider 
and Hitachi. Mrs B said that she thought the timeshare provider had used high pressured 
selling, but she wasnt alleging that Hitachi had actually done anything wrong. As Mrs B 
didnt agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments, I issued a provisional decision on the 
complaint. That was because, although I agreed with our investigator that Hitachi didnt need 
to do anything more, I did so for different reasons. So I set out why I came to the decision I 
did and invited both parties to respond with any further comments. 
I explained that I thought it was important to set out that Mrs B wasnt paying Hitachi for the 
timeshare. Rather, the timeshare was paid for in full by Hitachi paying a lump sum to the 
timeshare provider and then Mrs B repaying Hitachi. So it wasnt as simple as Mrs B being 
able to cancel the loan if she didnt want the timeshare anymore.
In certain circumstances, if someone is able to cancel an agreement that was funded using a 
loan, the loan would also be automatically cancelled. Having looked at the terms of the 
timeshare, I saw that Mrs B had the right to cancel it within fourteen days of taking it out. But 
after that, I couldnt see that Mrs B was able to cancel the agreement and ask for any money 
back. It followed, I couldnt see that Hitachi should have cancelled the loan because Mrs B 
didnt want the timeshare anymore, once the first fourteen days had passed.
In some circumstances the CCA can be used if someone has a problem with goods or 
services bought using a loan. But Mrs B wasnt complaining about the timeshare itself, 
instead she said she didnt want to go overseas anymore due to the risks associated with 
Covid-19. As Mrs B made it clear she was not making any claim under the CCA, I made no 
finding on any claim she may be able to make under that act.
Having looked at everything, I thought the complaint that Mrs B made was that she was 
paying back a loan for a product she couldnt use because of a change of circumstances. 
But I thought that unfortunately that wasnt a reason for me to say that Hitachi should cancel 
her loan. So although I understood Mrs Bs frustrations, I didnt think there was anything 
more I could do to help with her complaint.
Hitachi didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs B responded to say she disagreed. She reiterated that she was asking for the 
arrangements with both the timeshare provider and Hitachi to be cancelled as she and her 
husband no longer felt safe taking holidays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She said that she 
only wished to cancel any future obligations to pay, but wasnt asking for any refund of what 
had already been paid to Hitachi, even though shed never used the trial membership. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs B has said and, although I sympathise with the situation in 
which she finds herself, Im not going to tell Hitachi to write off the remainder of the loan or to 
do anything else. As I explained in my provisional decision, a loan provider doesnt normally 
have to cancel a loan just because the person who borrowed money no longer wants the 
thing bought with the money lent. 
I still dont think there is any reason why the trial membership can be cancelled at this stage, 
so I dont think Hitachi also needs to cancel the loan. Unfortunately, no longer wanting or 
being able to use the trial membership isnt a reason to be able to legally cancel either the 
membership or the loan.
Mrs B asked whether Hitachi would accept a part payment of what was outstanding to close 
off the loan. Any request like this would need to be put to Hitachi directly as Im not sure 
what remains outstanding. But Mrs B might want to take some advice on the effect to her 
credit file of making a partial settlement. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman