DRN-4215176
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank wrongly issued 
his ex-partner with a card to his bank account when it had no authority to do so. 
What happened
Mr M noticed some transactions on his bank account between 1 August 2022 and 15 August 
2022 which he was certain he hadnt made so he raised the issue with Northern Bank. It 
transpired that these transactions were made by his ex-partner on her card to his account. 
Mr M then said he never gave any authority for anyone including his ex-partner to be given 
access to his bank account with a card. Northern Bank then discovered it had issued a card 
to Mr Ms then partner in 2013. This was without Mr Ms authority or knowledge. There were 
previous transactions which Northern Bank identified when his ex-partner used the card in 
2013 and 2014 too. 
Northern Bank issued a refund to Mr K of all the identified transactions made by his ex-
partner. Subsequently after Mr M brought his complaint to us, Northern Bank then raised its 
compensation from £100 to £250. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied, but the investigator didnt think Northern Bank had to do 
anything more. Mr M disagreed so his complaint was been passed to me to decide. 
  
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June and I said the following: 
This is a very unusual case. Normally no bank would issue a card on someone 
elses account without their express authority regardless of any relationship. Its a 
gross contravention of the rules concerning a customer and their bank along with no 
doubt issues concerning the contravention of the data protection rules. Data 
protection however is not in the remit of this service, so I am not able to make any 
finding on that aspect. 
Northern Bank has admitted its error which I consider is appropriate and it has 
sought to refund all the transactions made from the date it can work out it issued this 
card to Mr Ms ex-partner, namely 2013, to date. 
Due to the fact that these issues go back as far as 2013 that could have raised 
jurisdiction issues for the ability of this service to deal with the entirety of Mr Ms 
complaint since were only permitted to investigate matters which happened in the 
previous six years or if later within three of the consumer being aware of the issue. 
And as Northern Bank ignored any such jurisdiction issues in providing the refund to 
Mr M from transactions done as far back as 2013, we asked it for their consent to 
ignore the jurisdiction issues. Im grateful that such consent was forthcoming.
 
When I asked Northern Bank why they didnt add interest to the sums refunded to his 
account it said that because his account was a current account and therefore not an 
interest-bearing account. However, this ignores the fact that Mr M was without these 
funds himself from the time of any of the transactions to the date of Northern Banks 
refund. This is of course due to the fact that Northern Bank wrongly issued a card on 
Mr Ms account to his ex-partner. Therefore, I consider its only fair and reasonable 
that Mr M is entitled to interest on each transaction from the date it was made to the 
date of the refund. As Northern Bank is aware this service awards 8% simple interest 
on such issues. I consider its irrelevant what type of account Mr M had, because he 
nonetheless was wrongly deprived of the funds at the time each transaction was 
made.
Mr M was extremely distraught that a card had been given to his ex-partner and from 
2013. He explained that previously he has some monetary issues with a previous 
partner which was very distressing for him and since that time no one other than him 
was permitted access to his account. When he realised the matter went all the back 
to 2013 this upset him further. I do understand and appreciate this. And as I said at 
the beginning this is a very unusual case and I do understand and appreciate Mr Ms 
distress. However, he only discovered this from August 2022 onwards. He wasnt 
aware of it from 2013 to date. Northern Bank sought to refund Mr M as quickly as it 
could too and indeed ensure the card given to his ex-partner erroneously was swiftly 
cancelled. 
Therefore, I consider the sum now offered to Mr M by Northern Bank of £250 
compensation to be reasonable and its in line with our approach to compensation for 
refunded disputed transactions like this. Any compensation which I can award is 
compensation for the distress Mr M suffered, its not to punish Northern Bank or 
indeed to fine them. Its simply to acknowledge the distress of Mr M finding out a card 
had erroneously been given to his ex-partner which she used. 
Mr M also said that Northern Bank should apologise to him. I actually agree with this 
given the very unusual circumstances of this complaint. Therefore, I consider 
Northern Bank should write to Mr M apologising for its gross error in giving his ex-
partner a card on his account with any authority from Mr M and for the shock and 
upset this caused him.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision but still felt Northern Bank had got off lightly given its 
gross mistake. Northern Bank didnt respond within the time limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again having noted Mr Ms acceptance and no further response from 
Northern Bank, I see no reason to depart from the reasoning and outcome Ive outlined in 
my provisional decision as above. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I now require Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank to do the following:
Add 8% simple interest from the date each transaction was made to the date of the 
refund to Mr M. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr M for HMRC purposes.If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr M the sum of £250 compensation. 
Write a letter of apology to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman