DRN-2568709
The complaint
Mrs F says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs F bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card by post. It 
covered her in case she was off sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs F and Capital One a provisional decision on 20 January 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Fs credit card application offered her the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs F signed the 
form to confirm her choices. She then returned it by post, in her own time and without any 
potential pressure from a salesperson. So I think that Capital One made Mrs F aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it  though I can understand if 
she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Capital One didnt give Mrs F tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check 
if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs F enough information to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible that the information Capital One gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs F chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what I can see of her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she wouldve been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. And as far as shes told us, she doesnt appear to have had any other protection 
in place at all. So the policy could have really been useful for Mrs F in case something went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs F could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put her off taking it out.
Mrs F has now clarified that she was not working at the time of the sale, which means she 
wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. But according to the credit card application from 
the time, she was in fact employed. And I can see she chose to take out cover for time off 
work and unemployment  so its difficult to see why she wouldve done that if she wasnt 
employed. It also looks like Mrs F initially told her representative that she was employed. 
And I do need to bear in mind that memories can and do fade over time, so I can understand 
if Mrs F is now mistaken. Our adjudicator asked Mrs F for evidence of her employment 
status, and explained how she could get this. Its now been just under six months and we 
havent received any such evidence. So based on what I have  including the application 
from the time  I think its most likely that Mrs F was employed and so was eligible for the 
PPI. But if Mrs F can provide evidence of her employment status by the deadline of this 
provisional decision, then Im happy to reconsider this point.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 February 2021. But neither Mrs F nor Capital One sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman