DRN-3955602
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not give him an 
overdraft on his account.
He has also complained about how Nationwide dealt with his request. Mr T says that 
Nationwide has discriminated him due to his health conditions.
Mr T also complained that Nationwide would not process a chargeback claim.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and overall, they didnt think that Nationwide 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T. So, they did not uphold the complaint.
Mr T disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into account, Im unable to say that Nationwide has treated Mr T 
unfairly or unreasonably. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Request for card payment to be reversed
Mr T submitted - via an online chat  a request for a debit card payment to be returned to 
him. Such a request is commonly known as a charge back. However, the rules of what can 
and cant be processed as a charge back request are set by the card issuer, not Nationwide. 
So in such circumstances, Nationwide can only reasonably be expected to raise a charge 
back if the reasons for the request align with what the rules say. Examples of when the rules 
say a chargeback may be raised are when someone has been charged twice for the same 
item or where someone has been charged even though the payment had previously been 
cancelled.
In this case, the reason Mr T gave for the charge back request was My Personal 
emergency, health issues. However, as Nationwide explained in the online chat, this is not a 
valid reason for a charge back claim within the rules laid down by the card issuer. As such, 
in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that Nationwide declined the charge back 
request incorrectly. 
In the chat, Nationwide did however explain that Mr T should contact the merchant directly, if 
it was the case that he could no longer afford the payment or wanted to arrange an 
alternative way of making the payment. So I think Nationwide provided Mr T with enough 
information so that he was able to pursue the matter further if he so wished.
Overdraft not provided
Mr T has also complained because Nationwide was not willing to give him an overdraft on 
his Flex Account. However, the decision of whether to lend to a consumer is a reasonable 
exercise of Nationwides commercial discretion. All I can consider is whether it exercised that 
discretion reasonably.
When deciding whether to lend to a consumer, Nationwide is obliged to ensure that it lends 
responsibly. And Nationwide has explained that it considers a number of factors when 
deciding whether to lend to someone - this includes checking that the consumer is able to 
sustainably repay the debt. 
In this case Mr T explained that he was unemployed at the time he asked for the overdraft - 
although he was in receipt of universal credit and PIP payments from the government, and 
he told Nationwide that he was hoping to start employment shortly. Mr T has also explained 
that, at the time, there was adverse information on his credit file recorded by third parties, 
and this had had a negative impact on his credit score. Mr T says that he was in process of 
getting the information removed from his credit file with the credit reference agencies when 
hed asked for an overdraft. However, during the conversation Mr T had with Nationwide, it 
was also apparent he had debts elsewhere.
Mr T has told us that he suffers from medical conditions, and he says that he felt 
discriminated against by Nationwide because it didnt agree to give him an overdraft. But, 
having listened to the telephone conversations, I cant reasonably say that Nationwide had 
treated Mr T unfairly because he didnt get an overdraft. On the contrary, it seems that the 
only reason he was declined an overdraft on his account was due to his potential inability to 
repay the debt and possibly also due to adverse information appearing on his credit file - 
rather than because of his medical conditions. 
So, I think Nationwide was acting as a responsible lender by not providing Mr T with the 
credit hed asked for, when there was evidently a risk that he may struggle to sustainably 
repay the debt in question.
Adverse information on Mr Ts credit file
Mr T says that Nationwide shouldve given him more support in terms of removing the 
adverse information from his credit file. And he says Nationwide shouldve taken into 
account the fact he was disputing that information appearing on his credit file. But I disagree. 
I can certainly see why having the information appear on Mr Ts credit file wouldve been 
frustrating for him. But as the information on Mr Ts credit file was recorded by third parties, 
Nationwide was not in a position to be able to provide further support to Mr T. 
Nationwide told Mr T that he would have to raise his concerns directly with those third parties 
 which is pretty much all Nationwide wouldve been able to say on the matter. And whilst I 
appreciate that the adverse information on Mr Ts credit file was likely to have been a factor 
in Nationwides refusal to provide Mr T with an overdraft at the time, I cant reasonably say 
that Nationwide shouldve ignored such information. Afterall, a credit file is there to give 
lenders insight into the likelihood that someone is able to afford and be able to repay any 
credit that they are provided. And a lender cant reasonably be held responsible for the 
information recorded on a credit file by third parties.
As such, having considered the circumstances, Im unable to say that Nationwides decision 
to not provide Mr T with an overdraft was unreasonable or unfair.
Nationwide asked intrusive questions
Finally, Mr T has also complained that when he spoke to Nationwide it asked him intrusive 
questions about his circumstances. However, having listened to the conversation in 
question, Im satisfied that Nationwide was asking about Mr Ts circumstances so it could 
understand what further support it could offer him. 
For example, during the call, Nationwide suggested Mr T contact various organisations to 
get further help and support managing his debts and to get further support about his housing 
situation, because he said he was at risk of becoming homeless. It also told Mr T to prioritise 
paying his rent over his other debts, and suggested he pay his rent as soon as he received 
his income, to avoid the risk of him becoming homeless. And Mr T was also signposted to Nationwides specialist support service, although Mr T didnt take up Nationwides offer of 
speaking to them. 
So overall, I think that Nationwide took reasonable steps to provide Mr T with support and 
advice. Therefore, Im unable to say that Nationwide had treated Mr T unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman