DRN-1270353
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Amtrust Europe Ltd chose to avoid his caravan insurance policy on the 
basis he answered some of the policy application questions incorrectly. And they declined 
his claim as a result of this. 
What happened
Mr H took out a caravan insurance policy with Amtrust, through a broker, in October 2018.
Mr H had purchased his caravan in 2016, which he stored at a farm in a field designated for 
the storage of caravans. The caravan was stolen one night in March 2019. Mr H contacted 
Amtrust to make a claim for his loss. Amtrust sent a loss adjustor to the farm to make 
enquiries. After receiving the loss adjustors report, Amtrust avoided Mr Hs policy, so in 
effect the policy never existed, and declined his claim as a result of this. This was because it 
thought Mr H had provided incorrect information when he applied for the policy, concerning 
the security of the caravan site. 
Mr H complained to Amtrust. He said hed answered the questions he was asked when he 
took out the policy honestly and in good faith. He was also unhappy at the timing of 
Amtrusts decision  as they declined his claim at around the time his wife received a 
terminal diagnosis as a result of a serious illness. But Amtrust responded and didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. They referred to specific questions in the application regarding site 
security, pointing out Mr Hs answers werent correct. And Amtrust said had they known the 
true facts, they wouldnt have agreed to provide the cover. Amtrust have refunded the 
premium Mr H had paid. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to us. However, our investigator agreed 
Amtrust hadnt done anything wrong. He agreed Mr H had provided incorrect answers to 
some of the questions hed been asked when he took out the policy. And this meant Amtrust 
were entitled to avoid the policy, as he was satisfied they wouldnt have insured Mr Hs 
caravan if he had provided the correct information. 
And responding to Mr Hs question about whether Amtrust should have checked the location 
security facts themselves - rather than rely on what Mr H told them  our investigator 
explained insurance companies dont have to do this. They take information a policyholder 
gives and provide cover on that basis. Unhappy with this response, Mr H asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator, and for essentially the same reasons. I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr R. Ill explain why Ive reached my conclusion. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)I begin by looking at the obligations Mr H had to provide accurate information to Amtrust 
when he took out his policy. The relevant legislation that covers this is CIDRA. This reflects 
our long-established approach in these types of cases, and we think it usually produces a 
fair and reasonable outcome if an insurer follows it. When Mr H purchased his policy, he had 
a responsibility, under CIDRA, to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer took reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions Mr H was 
asked. Looking at the facts here, Amtrust have explained there were two questions that were 
answered incorrectly. Amtrust have provided a copy of Mr Hs statement of facts, which 
records the answers he gave to various questions asked during the application. Mr H was 
alerted to the following:
If your storage location is a farm, Dedicated caravan storage compound or a 
Registered Caravan site please answer the following questions
And Mr H answered Yes to the following questions:
Is the storage area defined by perimeter fencing and does it have limited access? 
AND
Is the caravan stored inside a secure area protected by perimeter fencing 
encompassing the entirety of the site and behind an entrance/exit gate which is 
permanently locked shut except for entry and exit purposes?
After Mr H contacted Amtrust to claim, a loss adjuster was appointed to make enquiries. The 
loss adjusters report confirmed the site where the caravan was stored was within the 
boundary of the farm, but that it didnt have its own perimeter fencing other than fields and 
natural vegetation. Ive seen photos of the site, and this appears correct. The loss adjustor 
also spoke to the owner of the farm, who confirmed the farm gates are kept open during the 
day, and only kept locked at night. 
Mr H says Amtrust should have made him aware they would only consider insuring his 
caravan if the site had security fencing and a permanent locked gate. He says he answered 
all of the questions in the application form honestly  and there was never any intention to 
misrepresent the facts. But he admits, because the caravan was stored on a working farm, 
hed assumed the farm would have had a perimeter fence, to keep the animals from 
escaping. And, because the caravan was taken via the open farm gate  so the lack of 
perimeter fencing played no part in the loss  Amtrust should reconsider their decision to use 
Mr Hs incorrect perimeter fence answer to avoid the policy. 
Whilst I agree theres nothing to suggest an intention to misrepresent the facts, I think Mr Hs 
answers were wrong. Its possible there was a perimeter fence surrounding the farm, but the 
question asked if there was one in the storage area  where Mr Hs caravan was stored  
and there wasnt. And, given Mr H had stored his caravan at the same location since he 
purchased it in 2016, I think its likely hed have known the site was only locked in the late 
evenings, rather than being locked all the time. Based on the above, I dont think  Mr H took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
The next thing I need to consider is whether this misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
And for this to be the case Amtrust need to show it would either not have offered the policy 
at all if Mr H hadnt made the misrepresentation or that it would have offered it on different 
terms. Here, Amtrust have confirmed they wouldnt have offered cover to Mr H if hed 
answered the above two questions correctly. Ive seen a copy of Amtrusts underwriting guidance, which confirms this. An insurer is entitled to set its own underwriting criteria  the 
sets of circumstances its happy to provide cover in relation to. I cant tell an insurer whether 
these are right or wrong. So, taking account all of the above, Im satisfied Mr H did make 
qualifying misrepresentations. 
Having concluded this, the next thing to consider is whether the misrepresentation was 
careless, or deliberate or reckless. CIDRA defines a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation as one where the consumer knew, and didnt care, theyd provided untrue 
or misleading information. And that the consumer knew it was relevant to the insurer. Or 
didnt care whether or not it was relevant. If the misrepresentation doesnt fall into these 
categories, its classed as careless. Amtrust have agreed that Mr Hs misrepresentation was 
careless, and I agree.
This being the case, CIDRA defines what Amtrust may do where theyve concluded Mr H 
made a qualifying careless misrepresentation.  Essentially, it says Amtrust may avoid the 
policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the premiums. This is what happened here. So 
I think its clear Amtrust have followed the relevant legislation. And I think they were entitled 
to avoid Mr Hs policy on the basis he had made a qualifying misrepresentation.
I appreciate Mr Hs belief that Amtrust should have treated him with more sympathy given 
his circumstances at the time. I understand what lies behind Mr Hs comments here, but my 
role is to consider if Amtrust acted in accordance with the relevant law and treated him fairly 
in avoiding his policy and refusing his claim. As Ive said above, I think it did. And Amtrust 
werent required to take account of Mr Hs personal circumstances when deciding if his claim 
would be covered, or his policy avoided. 
Mr H has also told us Amtrusts decision to avoid is now beginning to cause him some 
problems with his other insurance. I cant comment further on this  but if Mr H believes that 
a future insurer is treating him unfairly, he is of course entitled to raise a complaint with that 
insurer.
Mr H also comments that he believes insurance companies share information between 
themselves, and so surely Amtrust would or should have known about previous caravan 
thefts from the farm, which Mr H says were covered by other insurers. And, that insurance 
companies should make time to look at each policy. And it should be their business to satisfy 
themselves of the information being given in relation to the risk being covered  and not just 
take a consumers word for it. I dont agree with Mr H on these points. An insurance 
company will likely deal with many thousands of customers each year, and its impossible to 
expect them, and nor are they required, to test the answers of every policyholder they have, 
or check every risk address. 
So, to conclude, I think Amtrust were entitled to avoid Mr Hs policy because he made a 
qualifying misrepresentation, and because of this were able to refuse his theft claim.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Mark Evans
Ombudsman