DRN-2950267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint is about the handling of a claim under their legal expenses 
insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited. 
Fairmead uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Fairmead 
throughout.  
What happened
Since around 2017, Mr and Mrs E have had a dispute with their neighbour over vehicular 
access to their property. They made a claim under the policy for cover to take legal 
proceedings to resolve the issue. Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed one of its 
panel solicitors to act for Mr and Mrs E. However, there was a disagreement between Mr 
and Mrs E and the solicitors, as they said an offer made by the neighbour to settle the matter 
was reasonable and should be accepted, which Mr and Mrs E disputed. When Mr and Mrs E 
complained about the legal advice, the solicitors said the professional client/solicitor 
relationship had broken down and they were no longer willing to act for them. 
Mr and Mrs E asked for another solicitor and also counsels advice on the matter. They  
brought a complaint to this service about this and some other issues in 2019. That complaint 
was determined by one of my ombudsman colleagues by way of a final decision in January 
2020. During the course of that complaint, it was agreed Fairmead would get another 
solicitor to assess the claim, the offer made and also pay for counsels opinion on the merits 
of the legal case. The ombudsman endorsed that and also directed Fairmead to pay Mr and 
Mrs E compensation for the handling of the claim and provide Mrs E with details of 
arbitration procedure, as she had requested. Mrs E had also prior to this brought two other 
complaints about the handling of the legal expenses policy and claim. 
Fairmead appointed another panel firm to assess the legal case. The solicitors asked Mr and 
Mrs E for some further information about the case and also asked them to sign their terms 
of appointment before they would act. Mr and Mrs E are very concerned about the terms set 
out in that letter of authority and have refused to sign it. As a result, the matter has not 
progressed. The solicitors told Fairmead it couldnt assess prospects, which Fairmead 
interpreted as meaning there were no prospects and so in November 2020, it wrote to Mr 
and Mrs E saying their claim was refused. 
Mr and Mrs E brought this new complaint to us as a result of this.  
Mr and Mrs E want Fairmead to instruct a solicitor whose terms do not contravene the terms 
of the insurance policy; send them details of their preferred barristers chambers; comply 
with the previous final decision and pay compensation for not doing so; and pay them 
compensation for the continuing to delay as well as any amount by which their policy costs 
limit has been depleted whilst they repeatedly instructed solicitors who do not comply with 
the terms of the insurance
Fairmead provided some assurances to Mr and Mrs E about the legal costs and said the 
case could move on as soon as they signed the solicitors terms and provided them with the 
information requested. Fairmead did accept that it had failed to respond to some 
communications within a reasonable time. It offered Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation for 
this. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought the compensation already 
offered was reasonable to reflect the delays by Fairmead. The investigator also thought it 
had provided sufficient reassurance about the policy cover and had also complied with the 
previous ombudsmans final decision
Mr and Mrs E do not accept the investigators assessment. They have made a number of 
submissions, in their initial complaint and in response to the investigator, which Ive 
summarised below: 
 Fairmead has still failed to comply with the final decision issued in 2020.
 They are being asked to sign a document that is in contradiction of the insurance 
cover and will leave them liable to charges. For example, the panel solicitors terms 
say if they reject an offer that the panel solicitors deem to be reasonable, they will 
have to pay all the costs incurred. The panel solicitors confirmed in response to their 
query about this that it would be all costs. Whereas the insurance policy says that if a 
policyholder rejects a reasonable offer then Fairmead will not indemnify any further 
costs, but costs incurred up to that point will still be covered. 
 Fairmead has not sent them a list of their preferred barristers despite numerous 
requests and promises to do so. 
 In September 2019, they received a telephone call from a research company and 
were told they had been given their contact details by Fairmead. This is a blatant 
data breach. 
 The investigator acknowledged that Fairmead has not said that all future costs will be 
covered by the policy  only the cost of getting the barristers opinion. 
 Fairmead has said it will assess costs at the end of the case and will pay all 
necessary and reasonable costs incurred but they will be liable for any costs which 
are deemed to fall outside that definition. The solicitors have said they would seek 
those from Mr and Mrs E, so Fairmead is sanctioning this breach of insurance policy 
terms. 
 The compensation offered by Fairmead is not fair and reasonable. The delaying 
tactics used by Fairmead could mean they are time-barred from taking the legal 
action they want cover for. 
 They are not refusing to send the information requested by the panel solicitors but 
there is no point until the other issues are resolved, as they cannot work on them 
until the issue about the costs is resolved. 
 They are concerned that proportionality is a factor in the assessment of whether their 
claim will be covered, as they could forever be denied access to their home if the 
solicitors deem that the cost of pursuing legal action is not worth it. And the 
requirement that a legal claim be proportionate to pursue is not mentioned in the 
policy terms.
 The investigator suggests they go to the Legal Services Ombudsman with any 
complaint about the solicitors but they have no complaint against the solicitors at 
present and are not a client of theirs yet anyway.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
Preliminary mattersPart of Mr and Mrs Es complaint is that Fairmead has not complied with the final decision 
issued by my colleague in 2020. As Mr and Mrs E have already been told, we cannot 
enforce a final decision, so even if I agreed that Fairmead had not complied with the 
decision, I have no power to make any further award or direction. I am unable to take this 
part of the complaint any further therefore. For clarity, I can also only consider any issues 
that have arisen since then and not already addressed in that decision. 
Mr and Mrs E have also complained that Fairmead has mis-used their personal data. I 
cannot make any finding as to whether there has been a beach of data protection legislation, 
as this would be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office. However, I do not think 
the call received made any difference to the handling of the claim or the outcome of it.  So 
while it may have been annoying to receive the call, I do not intend to make any award in 
relation to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has been a long-running issue for Mr and Mrs E and this is, I believe, the fourth 
complaint they have raised relation to this claim under their legal expenses insurance with 
Fairmead. 
While the previous complaint was with us, Fairmead agreed to appoint a second panel 
solicitor to assess the legal case. They instructed the solicitors in May 2019. The panel 
solicitors sent two letters to Mr and Mrs E on the same day in May 2019 asking that they  
sign an enclosed copy of their terms of appointment. The letters said: 
We will need to undertake further investigations before we can confirm to you and [the 
claims handlers] whether we believe you have reasonable prospects of succeeding and your 
claim is proportionate to pursue. As part of those investigations we will need to speak with 
you and also obtain additional information from you and so the purpose of this letter is to 
ensure you are aware of, and accept, the terms on which we will act for you.
And 
Please note, at this stage your insurer will not indemnify you for any costs incurred on 
obtaining the evidence set out above, as this is required to assess whether your claim has 
prospects of success to satisfy the terms of your policy. 
The claim has already been accepted in principle but an assessment is necessary on the 
offer and prospects of pursuing the case if the offer was rejected. As the solicitors will be 
acting for Mr and Mrs E it is not unreasonable that they require them to enter an agreement 
with them about the terms under which they will act. The fact they are panel solicitors 
doesnt change this. 
However, I can see why the comments set out above concerned Mr and Mrs E. In response 
to Mr and Mrs Es complaint about this, Fairmead confirmed it would be responsible for the 
costs of the solicitors assessing the claim and of obtaining counsels opinion. Fairmeads 
final response letter of April 2020 also confirmed this and said that, as soon as Mr and Mrs E 
provide the additional information requested, they can arrange counsels opinion and move 
the case forward.
Fairmeads letter of 11 February 2021 says: 
the solicitors have been appointed by [Fairmead] and as such the legal costs will be 
covered under the policyThe policy wording states that if you refuse a reasonable offer to settle your claim then we will not pay any further costsI appreciate you have some 
reservations but I wish to reassure you that the costs involved will be coveredand any 
future costs will be determined by how the claim progresses once [the solicitors]  have 
received all paperwork, instructed counsel, and we are in receipt of counsels written 
opinion.
A further email from Fairmead dated 22 April 2020 says:
...we would cover the necessary and reasonable costs of legal action under your policy.
and Once the claim is settled the solicitors costs will then be considered by a costs 
draftsman on conclusion of the claim and the necessary and reasonable costs covered by 
the policy will be paid. 
Mr and Mrs E say these statements are contradictory and are not enough to assure them. 
They say Fairmead can simply allege they have breached terms of the agreement and 
refuse to pay and they will be liable. Mr and Mrs E also dispute the assessment that the 
solicitors are proposing to carry out as they have said it will include an assessment of the 
proportionality of taking legal action. Mr and Mrs E say the policy doesnt contain any such 
restriction on cover, and only says there must be reasonable prospects of achieving a 
successful outcome. 
I dont agree and I am satisfied Fairmead has done all it can reasonably be required to do to 
confirm the cover under the policy. I will explain why. 
The policy indemnifies Mr and Mrs E for their legal costs, and costs are defined in the 
policy as being all reasonable and necessary costs charged by the professional adviser on 
a standard basis. 
It would not generally be considered reasonable to incur legal costs that outweigh the value 
of the issue in dispute; the courts would also discourage this. Therefore, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Fairmead to consider this as part of an assessment about the prospects of 
a case. However, I would say that the detriment to Mr and Mrs E being caused by the issue 
in dispute, as well as any financial loss it represents, will be relevant when reasonably 
assessing whether it is proportionate to pursue. I am not saying that it will therefore be 
proportionate to pursue but that it is not unreasonable for this to be assessed by the 
solicitors and/or Fairmead and that there are a number of factors that should be considered 
when they do so. 
As stated above, the policy is one of indemnity. So the solicitors will be acting for                 
Mr and Mrs E and the primary responsibility for the costs would be theirs (which is why they 
are required to enter an agreement with the solicitors) but Fairmead agrees to cover or pay 
back to Mr and Mrs E the reasonable and necessary legal costs incurred. In practice, 
Fairmead will usually pay the solicitor direct and one of the benefits of using a panel solicitor 
is that there are pre-agreed protocols and requirements for the solicitors to seek authority 
from the insurer before taking any significant steps.
At this stage it has only been agreed that Fairmead will cover the costs of assessing the 
claim and getting counsels opinion. In my opinion, Fairmead has provided sufficient 
assurance that it will pay the costs of this work. It has also explained that any future cover 
will depend on the outcome of that assessment. It cannot give any guarantee about other 
future costs that might be involved in pursuing the claim beyond that point, as it will depend 
on counsels opinion as to whether it is covered going beyond that. I do not think therefore 
that Fairmeads comments - that future costs (beyond this assessment stage) will be 
determined based on how the claim progresses (i.e. depending on the advice about whether 
to go ahead) is unreasonable or contradictory. I also do not think it is unreasonable that Fairmead said the costs will be assessed at the end and it will cover reasonable and 
necessary cost covered by the policy. That is in line with the terms of the policy, as set out 
above and standard industry practice. 
Fairmead has also confirmed, sufficiently clearly in my opinion, that if Mr and Mrs E refuse a 
reasonable offer, it will not pay any further legal costs (i.e. of pursuing the matter beyond 
that) but will cover costs up to that point (subject to the policy terms).
Mr and Mrs E have also asked for a list of Fairmeads preferred barristers. I think it will be up 
to the solicitors who they think is appropriate to advise on the matter and this information 
would usually come from them. However, I do not see why they cannot be provided with this 
information. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs E also say that Fairmead took too long to address this complaint and 
that this is a deliberate delaying tactic to ensure they are barred from legal action. I dont 
think there is any evidence of any deliberate attempt to delay the legal case. Fairmead has 
acknowledged that it did not respond as quickly as it should have done to their 
communications chasing the claim. However, I do not agree that the total time from May 
2019 to date is due to anything Fairmead did wrong. Overall, it seems to me that the £200 
already offered to reflect the delays on Fairmeads part, is reasonable.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman