DRN-2481295
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold her a 
joint life assurance policy and didnt complete a subject access request correctly. 
Mrs C has brought the complaint to our service. As joint policy holder Mr C has consented to 
our service looking at this complaint but will only be referred to where relevant.
What happened
The term life assurance policy was sold through an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) in 
2008. The policy was originally with Royal Liver which was subsequently taken over by 
Royal London in 2011. The policy was cancelled in April 2020.
In February 2020 Mrs C submitted a subject access request (SAR) to Royal London. She 
received the documents under the SAR in June 2020. Mrs C complained to Royal London 
about the SAR saying itd caused delays and that it hadnt provided her with all of the 
relevant documents. Mrs C also said Royal London had mis-sold her the policy.
Royal London forwarded Mrs Cs complaint to the IFA who sold the policy to her and said it 
wasnt responsible for the sale. It also noted itd actioned her SAR within the relevant 
timescales and provided all the documents that it still retained.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Royal London had dealt with 
Mrs Cs SAR fairly and correctly. He didnt think Royal London was responsible for the sale 
of the policy and noted this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint was with another business. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. 
Before issuing this decision, I wrote to Mrs C setting out my initial thoughts. I let her know 
that Id reached the same outcome as the investigator but that I needed to add some points 
following further information received from Royal London. In summary, Mrs C said:
The policy was mis-sold;
Royal London didnt make sure the IFA was qualified;
Shes not received all of the documents and some have inaccurate signatures;
Royal London has failed to provide all documents in a reasonable amount of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs C, but I wont be addressing 
every single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to 
the outcome of this complaint.
From everything Ive seen such as the documents addressed to Mrs Cs IFA setting up the 
policy, Im satisfied that Royal London (previously Royal Liver) isnt responsible for the sale 
of the policy. I know Mrs C disagrees with this but she hasnt provided any persuasive 
evidence to support what she says. Further, I think if the IFA was not suitably qualified to 
make the sale, this is a complaint that should be directed to that IFA or its regulator. 
Therefore, I wont be considering the complaint points relating to the sale of the policy.
In terms of the SAR part of the complaint, I think Royal London has acted fairly and 
reasonably for the following reasons:
Mrs C made a SAR without Mr Cs involvement. In emails to Mrs C between 
February and April 2020, I can see Royal London asked her for identification 
documents on several occasions. Once Mrs C provided the requested documents, 
the SAR was completed within one month. I think this was reasonable.
 
Mrs C says she didnt receive a copy of the original signed agreement or signed 
direct debit mandate. Royal London explained to this service that it normally keeps 
records for six years after an account is closed. But in this case, Royal London took 
over the business of Royal Liver in 2011 and the latter business may have had a 
different retention policy. It says this may explain why the agreement/ direct debit 
document is no longer held.
Ive considered the impact of these two documents no longer being available. I can 
see that other documents sent as part of the SAR clearly show what type of policy 
Mrs C had, when it became payable, and the premiums/ sum assured amounts. 
Under the SAR she received several direct debit mandates which had changed over 
the years due to a change in bank account details. Mrs C also wouldve been 
provided with the original documents at the time of sale. All in all, I cant fairly say 
Royal London not having these two documents has impacted on the operation of 
Mrs Cs policy or disadvantaged her in any other way.
I also note Mrs Cs point about inaccurate signatures on documents shes received. 
But Ive seen no evidence to support this claim. So I cant say Royal London has 
done anything wrong in this regard.
Mrs C says Royal London shouldve asked for Mr Cs consent before providing the 
SAR documents. But I cant see she received any documents that were personal to 
Mr C and that all the documents appear to have been documents Mrs C would have 
already been provided with at some stage. I cant fairly say Royal London has done 
anything wrong by providing the policy documents to Mrs C as part of the SAR.
It should be remembered that our service doesnt decide whether a particular 
business has breached any data protection laws  this is the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office. I can only decide whether the business has acted fairly and 
reasonably when a request is made as part of the financial service it was providing. 
And in this case, I think Royal London has.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman