DRN-4162061
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly recorded a fraud marker against him, 
closed his account and then delayed removing the marker after he contacted it. Hed like 
Barclays to compensate him for the difficulties this caused.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, upholding it. I invited both parties to let 
me have any further comment and evidence by the deadline I set. Below is a copy of what I 
said in my provisional decision. 
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage application declined in April 2022. He couldnt understand why. After 
looking into things, he saw Barclays had recorded an adverse marker against him with a 
fraud prevention database in 2017.
Mr R contacted Barclays about this, explaining he hadnt perpetrated a fraud, rather hed 
been a victim of a scam in 2017. He thought the marker was a mistake and asked Barclays 
to remove it immediately. 
Mr R didnt think Barclays was treating his situation with any urgency. So he escalated the 
matter as a complaint and contacted our service as well.
Barclays spoke with Mr R on 15 July 2022, agreeing to remove the marker. Mr R says that it 
also promised to send him a letter confirming the removal. But no letter was forthcoming. 
Mr R wanted us to investigate as he didnt think hed been treated fairly. He highlighted the 
following points that were important to him:
- The marker shouldnt have been recorded in the first place. Hed been the victim of a scam 
and the bank should have investigated things thoroughly before deciding to record anything. 
Hed provided copies of his bank statements for an account he held with another provider. 
This showed his other bank had made an adjustment on the account. Mr R said this was to 
reflect there had been fraud/scam against him at the same time. 
- Hed made an offer on a house he wanted to buy but lost out due to his mortgage 
application being declined in April. This was solely down to the marker. 
- The marker damaged his reputation and the whole situation had left him feeling anxious 
and distressed.
Barclays provided information so that we could consider the complaint. In summary, it said it 
had placed blocks on Mr Rs account on 22 April 2017 as it had received notification from a 
third-party bank, about two credits into his account noting them as fraudulent funds. These 
funds were utilised immediately.
This activity prompted a review of the account, and the outcome of the review was to issue 
Mr R with a notice of immediate closure on 9 May 2017. A letter was sent to Mr R informing 
him about the closure. 
There was a balance of £61.41 on the account before it was closed. However, this wasnt 
collected. It could transfer this to Mr R if he could provide his bank details. 
Information regarding the decision to close the accounts and the reasons behind this were 
shared on the fraud database. It had recently decided to remove all detrimental markers 
because it no longer held information to show how the disputed funds were utilised. 
Therefore, it didnt have evidence to maintain the loadings. 
It had written to Mr R on the same day as it had spoken to him, confirming it had decided to 
remove the marker.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She upheld it in part. She recommended 
Barclays return the £64.41 and pay Mr R £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in having his mortgage application declined. 
Mr R didnt think this resolved the complaint. He maintained the marker shouldnt have been 
recorded in the first place. He said this had cost him financially in 2017 and in 2022. He 
questioned whether the person recording the marker was part of the scam hed fallen victim 
to. He said the bank wouldnt have told him about the money on the account if he hadnt 
complained. He felt its value five years on was surely more. Overall, he considered Barclays 
hadnt treated him fairly and should compensate him for the difficulties caused. He asked 
that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman. 
Barclays accepted the adjudicators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loading on fraud database 
As our adjudicator explained, there must be reasonable grounds for a bank to think that a 
fraud or financial crime has been committed and the evidence must be clear, relevant, and 
rigorous before it records a fraud marker. Barclays has said why it was concerned about the 
activity on the account that triggered the blocks  it received a report from another bank 
about a fraud, which I have also reviewed. This would have definitely triggered a block on 
the account. 
While I cant see Barclays questioned Mr R about the activity at the time, which is good 
industry practice, Im also mindful that Barclays doesnt have other information, for example, 
audit records, which might assist in bottoming out what happened here. 
I have considered the information Mr R has provided from his other bank, but I dont 
consider the account adjustment in isolation to be conclusive of a scam. 
With this in mind, its difficult to answer the question, was Barclays justified in recording the 
marker. The fact is there will be occasions, particularly with the passage of time where we 
wont know exactly what happened. Based on this, in my view there isnt a sound basis for 
requiring Barclays to pay compensation for the initial loading. But in any event, things have 
moved on since the loading was made - Barclays has removed the markers. So, I dont think 
theres much to be gained by commenting on this point further, beyond considering the problems Mr R experienced once he contacted Barclays about this.
Removing the marker 
Evidence from Mr Rs broker shows that he was declined for a mortgage in early April 2022 
and that he contacted Barclays fairly quickly to raise this. The contact notes show Mr R told 
it that he was applying for a mortgage and had been declined because of the marker. So, 
from this Im satisfied Barclays ought to have known Mr Rs situation was urgent. 
Im not sure why it took Barclays over three months to deal with the matter and confirm it 
would be removing the marker. Ive not seen anything to show why it couldnt have attended 
to this sooner  indeed I think it would have known fairly quickly whether it had enough 
information to maintain the loading. I also think that throughout the duration Mr R would have 
felt anxious and distressed about the situation. So, its only right Barclays should do more 
about this ( see below). 
Ive considered Mr Rs comments about this situation having cost him in 2017 as well as 
2022. But its important to stress Mr R wasnt aware of the marker until 2022. So, there 
wouldnt have been any material impact up to this point. The material distress and 
inconvenience only arose once Mr R raised the issue and I think a payment of £300 is fair 
and reasonable in reflecting the distress stemming from the delay. 
Barclays told Mr R and us that it had removed all detrimental markers. I can see from its 
notes that it did take action but as part of this provisional decision and for completeness I 
would like it to check all the fraud databases it shares information with, so National Hunter, 
CIFAS and any other. And confirm these are definitely clear as per the information it gave to 
us about the removal.
Financial loss 
Ive considered whether theres been any separate financial loss to Mr R, but I havent seen 
anything persuasive to support a claim. Mr Rs credit file shows that he has a current 
mortgage and a property. The address we hold for him is also different to the one he first 
gave us, so I infer from this that he managed to move. 
It should be noted that financial providers should also check the accuracy of any fraud 
marker rather than automatically declining a product.
Letter 
Mr R says Barclays agreed to send him a letter confirming it would remove the marker. I 
dont know if this was intended to be a separate letter, but I can see he was sent a letter on 
15 July 2022, the same day Barclays spoke to him. This letter told Mr R that it had removed 
any detrimental information against him. The letter bears the address Mr R gave us in April 
2022 and the information he needed. So I cant find any fault here.
Account closure 
A bank is entitled to end its banking relationship with a customer and in some limited 
circumstances it can do so immediately. Here Barclays decided to close Mr Rs account on 9 
May 2017. So effectively immediately. I have seen a copy of the notice that was sent to him 
at the time. There is a potential question here about whether it was entitled to do so 
immediately or needed to give notice. But I dont think it makes a difference because Mr R 
held his main bank account elsewhere, so he wasnt left unbanked.Finally, there is the issue of £64.41 that Barclays says should be paid to Mr R. Ive no reason 
to think it wouldnt have paid this had Mr R presented identification and claimed it in 2017. I 
note however Mr R refutes this and says Barclays didnt tell him he had funds. I could look 
into this aspect further, but I dont think it will lead to a different outcome given that the bank 
is prepared to return the money to him. Though to assist in bringing the complaint to a 
satisfactory resolution, I would like Barclays to consider rounding this amount up to £100.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr R £400 to 
settle this complaint. I also require confirmation of the following in its response to my 
provisional decision: 
For it to check all the fraud databases it shares information with, so National Hunter, CIFAS 
and any other and let me know that these are clear, as per the information it gave to us 
about removal of all detrimental markers.
Responses
Both parties responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision and Barclays 
added that it would check the fraud databases and confirm these were now clear of any 
detrimental markers against Mr R.
The case was returned to me to finalise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I adopt my provisional 
decision in full as part of this final decision. I consider Barclays should have acted sooner 
and as a result, it should compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I asked Barclays to confirm it had checked all the fraud databases it uses to check these 
were clear of any entries it had made for Mr R. It did initially indicate it would contact me to 
confirm. But as of yet, I havent heard back on that. That said, theres no reason to delay this 
decision any longer. Because when carrying out the settlement, Barclays should complete 
these checks and let Mr R know that there are no entries by it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr R in total the amount of £400 
to settle this complaint and check all the fraud databases it shares information with, so 
National Hunter, CIFAS and any other and let Mr R know that these are clear, as per the 
information it gave to us about removal of all detrimental markers. Should any entries 
remain, Barclays should clear these. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman