DRN-1704817
The complaint
Mr C complains TSB Bank plc treated him unfairly when it considered his application for an 
overdraft and when it took the decision to close his account.
What happened
Mr C opened a current account with TSB in late 2019. He made an appointment to discuss 
getting an overdraft and home insurance and was turned down for the overdraft. At the 
meeting it became obvious that a member of staff had looked at Mr Cs account before the 
appointment as they asked about transactions hed done.
Mr C wasnt happy that a member of staff had looked at his account without him being 
present  he believes this is morally wrong. He wasnt happy with the way the branch 
manager behaved either  he says he threatened to close his account after having joined the 
meeting at which his application was discussed. Mr C says thats not a decision the manager 
should have been making  the bank should be  and that the manager shouldnt have been 
threatening to do things like that either.
TSB subsequently decided to close Mr Cs account. Mr C  who describes himself as a 
vulnerable and disabled adult  wasnt happy about this either saying that TSB hadnt 
followed the right process.
TSB looked into Mr Cs complaints but didnt uphold them. TSB said that in order to prepare 
for the appointment about getting an overdraft its staff needed to familiarise themselves with 
the activity on his account and had done so in line with its policy. So it didnt agree that was 
wrong. TSB also said that the branch manager had asked Mr C about gambling transactions 
seen on his account because it wouldnt be responsible to lend to a customer who planned 
to use the funds to gamble. Again it didnt agree that was wrong. TSB said Mr Cs attitude 
changed when the bank manager did so  it said he became aggressive and threatening. 
TSB didnt accept that the branch manager had threatened to close Mr Cs account, saying 
that this decision was made later and was as a result of Mr C being aggressive and 
threatening on several occasions. Mr C complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint in detail and, having done so, didnt 
uphold it. Mr C wanted us to look into what had happened in more depth  including getting 
CCTV of the meeting at which he talked about his overdraft. He said the CCTV would show 
that he didnt behave in an aggressive or threatening manner and that it was the branch 
manager who had done so. He also said that TSB had taken his behaviour into account but 
not his disability which wasnt fair. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So Ive 
looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.TSB wrote to Mr C in February 2020 to say that it was going to close his account in 30 days 
time. Mr C was able to open a current account with another bank who hes had a relationship 
with for some time before his TSB account was closed. He hadnt wanted to open an 
account with that bank in the past as he wanted to keep his personal finances separate from 
the account he held with them. But a solution has been found to that issue. Thats helpful 
because it means that Mr C didnt end up without a current account  which was a possibility 
given that a number of banks have closed accounts hes opened recently. Ive explained to 
Mr C the importance of maintaining the relationship he has with this other bank.
Ive looked at what happened when Mr C opened his TSB account in late 2019. Im satisfied 
that TSB gave him the information Id expect it to. Im also satisfied that TSB identified Mr C 
might be vulnerable and asked him relevant questions. I agree with Mr C that TSB didnt tell 
him a member of staff might look through the activity on his account if he applied for an 
overdraft in the future. But I wouldnt expect a bank to explain something as specific and 
detailed as that unless asked. Nor do I agree that its morally wrong to check a customers 
account in advance of a meeting to discuss an overdraft application. Indeed, in this particular 
case, the check revealed two potential causes of concern  namely that Mr C wasnt paying 
any income into his account and a number of gambling transactions. Im satisfied that the 
member of staff reviewed the account in line with TSBs terms and conditions. I dont think I 
can say TSB did anything wrong asking Mr C if he planned to use his overdraft to gamble 
and declining his application. Thats because TSB was acting as a responsible lender in 
doing so. So it wouldnt be appropriate to uphold this complaint on these grounds.
Mr C has told us that the bank manager threatened to close his account after he joined the 
meeting to discuss his application for an overdraft. Hes also told us that the bank manager 
blocked the exit to the room, and that he found this intimidating. TSB, and its members of 
staff, have given conflicting information, saying that Mr C has regularly been aggressive and 
threatening  often when someone says no to him. On balance, its obvious that the 
relationship between Mr C and TSB has broken down. More importantly, I dont agree TSB 
failed to take Mr Cs vulnerabilities and disabilities into account when it decided to close his 
account. In the circumstances, I cant say that TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
did so. It wouldnt, therefore, be appropriate to uphold this complaint on that ground either.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint as TSB Bank plc hasnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman