DRN-3820511
The complaint
Mr M complaints about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to cancel his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a car insurance policy underwritten by Advantage on 5 July 2022.
A few days later, the intermediary advised Mr M that Advantage had carried out some 
checks and were not willing to offer cover due to Mr Ms on-line activity. They said the 
policy would be cancelled within seven days and sent Mr M a refund.
Mr M complained to Advantage via the intermediary. He was concerned about the 
cancellation itself and also worried that he would struggle to get affordable insurance due to 
the cancellation being on record.
The response said that Advantage were aware that Mr M had carried out more than 50 
searches when looking for a quote for his car insurance policy. These searches were all in 
Mr Ms name, but he entered a wide range of different occupations, mileages and uses of 
the vehicle.
They told Mr M it was difficult to calculate the risk to them and offer cover where details had 
been changed a number of times. And they said the terms and conditions allowed them to 
cancel a policy where they knew or suspected that a misrepresentation had been made.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably when cancelling 
Mr Ms policy. 
He said Advantage should reinstate the policy. Or, if Mr M had obtained cover elsewhere, 
refund Mr M the difference between the two premiums and pay 8% interest on the amount 
for the relevant period.
He also said Advantage should remove any record of the policy cancellation from the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. And pay Mr M £100 in compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Advantage disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Mr M carried out a large number of searches when he was 
looking for a car insurance policy, entering different parameters each time.
There are two competing and mutually incompatible explanations for that behaviour.
One is that Mr M was searching for parameters  whether true or not  which would 
minimise his premium. And if that were the case - and he bought the policy after providing 
inaccurate details to Advantage  they would be entitled to cancel his policy.
The other explanation  the one provided by Mr M  was that he was applying for jobs and 
was curious about what might happen to his policy premiums if and when he got one of 
those jobs. 
And when he saw the full drop-down menu of different occupations, he was simply curious 
about what the impact on the premium offered would be if one were, for example, a chicken 
sexer, a comedian or a water diviner (these were all occupations searched by Mr M).
I can also see why Mr M might be interested to know how his premiums would be affected if 
he used his car in different ways and/or covered different mileage. 
Its not unreasonable, for example, to try to work out whether driving to work might be more 
cost effective than relying on public transport. Driving to work would alter both the usage of 
the vehicle and the mileage.
Mr M says he did the various searches out of curiosity and/or interest. And he bought the 
policy with accurate details.
I dont think Advantage have demonstrated that Mr M was in effect fishing for cheaper 
premiums. And I think its inherently unlikely that Mr M ever genuinely formulated the 
intention to buy a policy masquerading as a comedian or water diviner if that gave him 
cheaper premiums than telling the truth.
The key thing here is that Advantage can only legitimately cancel the policy, under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA), if Mr M has in fact 
given inaccurate data  or in other words made a misrepresentation  when he bought the 
policy. 
And they havent been able to point to any inaccuracies in the information Mr M provided 
when he actually bought the policy. We asked Advantage very specifically what data 
provided by Mr M is in their view inaccurate  and theyve not provided any answer.
On balance then, I think its more likely than not that Mr M did carry out the searches out of 
curiosity or legitimate interest, as he claims. And I cant reasonably conclude that he made a 
misrepresentation when he bought the policy in the absence of any suggestion from 
Advantage as to what the inaccuracy (or inaccuracies) might be.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Advantage should reinstate the policy as soon as possible  
or, if Mr M has bought cover elsewhere and paid more for it, refund him the difference in the 
cost of the premiums and pay him 8% interest on that amount (from the date he bought the 
new policy to the date Advantage make the payment to Mr M).
I also agree that Advantage must remove any record of the policy cancellation from the CUE 
database  and indeed any other records they hold. And finally, I agree Advantage must pay 
Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of their error in cancelling 
the policy.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
reinstate Mr Ms insurance policy as soon as possible, or pay him the difference in 
premiums if hes bought a new policy (adding 8% interest over the relevant period);
remove all records relating to the policy cancellation from CUE and any other 
databases;
pay Mr M £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman