DRN-2810896
The complaint
Mrs W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt give her the option to change 
her private medical insurance cover in order to reduce her premium.
What happened
Mrs W held a BUPA private medical insurance policy. Since 2014, Mrs W has 
contacted BUPA at a number of renewals to express her dissatisfaction with the 
increase to her premiums.
In 2020, Mrs W again called BUPA about the increase to her premiums. It was 
established by BUPA that Mrs W could move to a cheaper policy. Mrs W complains that 
BUPA didnt previously make her aware of this.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2021. Heres what I said:
Mrs W has made it clear that she doesnt require this service to look into BUPAs 
decision to increase her premiums. Instead, her complaint centres around BUPA not 
giving her the option to change her cover to a cheaper policy earlier than 2020.
In 2020, BUPA made Mrs W aware that she was on the most expensive policy in that 
particular suite of products. She was told that she could move to a different (cheaper) 
product which would be considered continuation cover and so there would be no new 
underwriting or exclusions added. Though some of the benefits would be different to 
her existing cover. It was explained to Mrs W that she would only be underwritten if 
she were moving to a different product suite.
It was important to Mrs W not to be underwritten again, as shed had cancer in 2013 and 
she didnt want this condition to this be excluded from a new policy. There was also some 
discussion between Mrs W and BUPA in 2020 about whether it would exclude cancer if 
she were to take out a new fully underwritten policy. Mrs W explained that shed had 
annual check-ups for five years following her cancer diagnosis, but they had ended 
(presumably in 2018). As it had been more than five years since Mrs Ws diagnosis and 
she was no longer having check-ups, BUPA didnt think it would exclude cancer if Mrs W 
were to take out a new policy.
I need to think about whether BUPA ought to have previously made Mrs W aware of 
this information.
Ive listened to the 2018 and 2019 renewal phone calls. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
BUPA explained that changes could be made to try and reduce the premium. In both 
years, I think it was apparent that Mrs W wasnt interested in exploring those options. In 
2019 she specifically said that she didnt want to change the policy.
Ive also looked at BUPAs call notes for earlier years. I havent listened to those calls, but 
it seems from the call notes that when Mrs W called BUPA about her premiums, she was 
again told she could make changes to her cover to reduce her premiums, but she didnt 
want to explore this.
If Mrs W had agreed to allow BUPA to explore the other options available to her before 
2020, then BUPA could have established that she was able to take out a cheaper policy 
without being underwritten. Alternately, from 2018, it could have looked into her taking out 
an entirely new policy. However, I cant reasonably find that BUPA did anything wrong by 
not exploring those options, when Mrs W didnt want it to do so.
I also cant ignore that when Mrs W was given the option in 2020 of taking out a cheaper 
policy, she didnt go ahead with this. It would therefore be difficult to conclude that she 
would have done so in earlier years, had the option been made available to her.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I reached a final decision. 
BUPA didnt make any further comments. 
Mrs W responded to say that, before 2020, BUPA hadnt explained the option of taking out 
another policy. She confirmed that she didnt go ahead with the new policy in 2020 as she 
was concerned about the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on her (and her daughter). 
Mrs W also pointed out that shed reduced her cover three times over the years in order to 
absorb the increase in premiums. She says she would have changed her cover again had 
it been offered and explained in detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Ws further comments. I do understand her frustration that 
there was a cheaper policy available that she could have taken out without being 
underwritten. However, I wouldnt have expected BUPAs staff members to know that without 
looking at her cover and the options available to her. As I said in my provisional decision, in 
the calls I listened to, Mrs W didnt want BUPA to look at her options and so I cant conclude 
that BUPA did anything wrong by not looking at other policies for her.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs W, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman