DRN-2294947
The complaint
Mr L complains that NatWest made a mistake and cancelled direct debits, standing orders 
and his debit card on his business account. He told us this caused a significant amount of 
work, and put him at risk of very serious consequences.
What happened
Mr L wrote to us to complain about the business bank account he has with NatWest. He told 
us that in July 2019, NatWest cancelled all his direct debits and standing orders, and his 
debit card. It had since confirmed that was entirely its error. 
Mr L said he had wasted a lot of time trying to repay amounts due to various companies. The 
direct debit for his car tax was cancelled, and couldnt just be reinstated until a new log book 
was ordered. So his car was off the road for some time. And although he was told the direct 
debits were all set up again correctly, they werent. He needed two payments to go to 
another bank, with two different reference numbers, and several phone calls were needed to 
get that all reinstated. 
Mr L said he also discovered that his debit card had been cancelled. 
Mr L was also unhappy that he no longer had a dedicated relationship manager for his 
business account.
NatWest said it was sorry that Mr Ls direct debits were cancelled on 1 July. It had reinstated 
these on 4 July. It was also sorry that there were now no standing orders set up on his 
account, and hed had to reinstate those. It could see that there had previously been 
standing orders there. 
NatWest said that its customers had told it trying to get through to relationship managers 
caused delays, so it had made changes, and now had a dedicated business line, operating 
24/7. It was also upgrading its mobile banking app, so customers could do more online. 
NatWest said it was sorry it had cancelled Mr Ls debit card. It sent him a new one. 
NatWest said Mr L would need to speak to the other bank about a problem with a payment 
that still hadnt been reinstated. It said that the other bank had only asked for part of his 
usual monthly payment. 
NatWest later said that Mr Ls loan payment should have been reinstated. Mr Ls loan was in 
arrears, and Mr L wanted the balance to be written off. This bank is linked to NatWest, so 
NatWest said it could arrange for three months of interest to be waived. But it wouldnt write 
off the loan. NatWest said it would remove any marks on Mr Ls credit file, up to the date 
when it wrote to him about this mistake, which was 14 September.
NatWest paid Mr L a total of £655 in compensation for the mistakes it had made, and for the 
time it took Mr L to put this right. It also wrote to him to confirm that this wasnt caused by 
anything hed done, so he could show that letter to any companies who hadnt been paid in 
this time. 
Mr L said this didnt cover the work involved, and the loss of business, as well as the risk to 
future business. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said NatWest was entitled 
to organise its own business as it saw fit, so it didnt have to continue to provide Mr L with a 
relationship manager just because it had done so in the past.
Our investigator said it was clear NatWest had made a number of mistakes, because Mr Ls 
direct debits, standing orders and debit card were all cancelled in error. It had taken some 
time to sort this out, and Mr L told us it had damaged his business relationships with other 
companies. But she thought the compensation that NatWest had paid Mr L was fair and 
reasonable, and in line with our guidelines. So she wouldnt ask NatWest to pay any more. 
She said she knew Mr L wanted us to negotiate a settlement for him, but we had to use our 
guidelines for whats appropriate to settle a case.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that a mortgage payment was missed, and in the circumstances 
he was in at the time, that bank could easily have forced him to repay the whole debt. He 
said that we were suggesting that £655 would have been enough to do that. Mr L wanted 
£2,000 to settle this complaint. 
Our investigator said she still thought that the compensation amount NatWest had paid was 
in line with what our service would recommend. Because Mr L didnt agree, she passed this 
case to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator. 
Firstly, it is up to NatWest to decide how it chooses to support its business banking 
customers. Its not unfair or unreasonable for it to decide to do that through a dedicated 
helpline, rather than a named contact. I know Mr L very much preferred having a named 
contact, so Im sorry to have to tell Mr L that I dont think it would be appropriate for our 
service to ask NatWest to change that.
I understand that NatWest has made some significant mistakes with the administration of Mr 
Ls account. And Mr L has told us about the wider effects this had both on him and his 
business. Hes told us this has taken a considerable amount of time to put right. 
I accept that this would be extremely inconvenient for Mr L. But I dont think I can fairly hold 
NatWest entirely responsible for all of the issues that Mr L has told us about. I know that Mr 
L wasnt able to quickly reinstate the direct debit for his car tax, and this caused him 
considerable inconvenience. But thats at least partly because of the age of the ownership 
document he held, which isnt something NatWest had any effect on. I also dont think I can 
base any compensation NatWest ought to pay in this case on Mr L having to pay off his 
mortgage at short notice. We know that the other bank, fortunately, didnt ask Mr L to do this. 
I still think that this must have caused considerable inconvenience to Mr L. But what Ive 
seen in this case makes me think that NatWest has made reasonable efforts to put this right. It has waived interest on his loan for a short period when payments werent made. It has 
made efforts to reinstate Mr Ls payments, repair any damage to his credit file, and to make 
sure that it, not him, carries the blame for these mistakes. And it has paid compensation 
payments of £655. So I do think NatWest has taken this seriously, and it has provided a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think that NatWest has to do more than it has 
done already. So I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman