DRN-3803060
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about issues they have experienced with their Santander UK Plc 
account.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F say that issues arose when they were on holiday and tried to make a 
payment with their credit card. This wasnt accepted and so they contacted Santander and 
were told it would take them over their limit. They cleared the balance on the credit card and 
thought the issue was resolved. However, Mr F says he then tried to buy tickets to a football 
match and his payment was declined. He says he missed out on the matches due to the 
issue and incurred costs trying to resolve it. He then discovered when he visited a Santander 
branch that a restriction was on his account that hadnt been lifted as it should have been in 
October 2021. 
Santander issued a final response letter dated 26 November 2021. It explained that it has 
automated systems in place to protect its customers against fraud. In the case of Mr F and 
Mrs F, it said a transaction requested on 12 October was referred for authenticity. It said that 
its system showed the transaction was confirmed as genuine within the timescales. 
However, when Mr F contacted it on 19 November about being unable to make a payment it 
was identified that it had failed to lift the restriction from the account. It said this was rectified 
with immediate effect and it paid £100 for the inconvenience this issue had caused.  
Mr F and Mrs F didnt think the compensation paid was enough given for the inconvenience 
and upset that they had been caused and they referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the actions taken by Santander in 
response to the issue raised were reasonable.
Mr F and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating and upsetting Mr F and Mrs F have found the issues with 
using their account. However, having considered all of the evidence I agree with our 
investigator that the £100 credit Santander provided as compensation is reasonable. I say 
this for the following reasons:
In October 2021, Mr F and Mrs F were away from home and tried to make a payment 
using their card but this wasnt being accepted. They say they contacted Santander 
and were told the payment would take them over their credit limit and so wasnt being 
allowed. I do not find this unreasonable. They cleared the balance on their card and 
were then able to make payments. Santander has confirmed that at no point was a 
block applied to the credit card.
The payment made from Mr F and Mrs Fs account to clear the credit card balance 
was flagged for authenticity checks. This caused a block to be applied to the account. 
Santander is required to have systems in place to protect its customers from issues 
such as potential fraud and while these can at times result in some inconvenience it 
is right that further checks take place when a payment is flagged. As Mr F and Mrs F 
confirmed the transaction was genuine the payment was released and credited to the 
credit card on the same day. 
Unfortunately, the restriction applied to Mr F and Mrs Fs account in October 2021 
wasnt lifted as it should have been. This wasnt identified until Mr F visited branch in 
November 2021. This was a mistake and while I note that once the issue was 
identified on 19 November the was resolved immediately - and as such the account 
was put back in the position it would have been had the mistake not been made  I 
agree that it is reasonable that compensation is paid for any upset and 
inconvenience this caused. 
Mr F believes that the block on his account was the reason his payment for football 
tickets was declined. I understand how upsetting this must have been as I realise the 
tickets were important to him. Mr F and Mrs F have explained that they travelled to 
the club to try to resolve the issues, resulting in further costs and time. However, 
when the transaction was declined it would have been reasonable to have contacted 
Santander at that point to establish what the issue was and why the payment was 
declined. Had they done this any issues could have been identified and resolved. So, 
while I appreciate the time and money spent as a result of the declined transactions, I 
think that Mr F could have mitigated this by contacting Santander.
Santander provided a final response dated 26 November in which is confirmed the 
issue had been resolved, apologised and said a £100 credit had been applied as 
compensation. I think this was a reasonable and timely response.
Overall, while I appreciate the upsetting experience Mr F and Mrs F had due to the 
restriction remaining in place, in this case taking everything into consideration I think 
the actions taken, including the payment of £100 compensation are reasonable.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman