DRN-3032958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined their claim 
on their landlords insurance policy. Theyd like their claim for the cost of alternative 
accommodation to be paid. 
Mr and Mrs W have dealt with other businesses throughout their claim. But Ageas, as the 
insurer, is responsible for this complaint. So Ive only referred to them in my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws boiler broke down at the end of September 2020. They said that the boiler 
was inspected and immediately declared dangerous. They said a prohibition notice was 
issued. So their tenants had to move into temporary accommodation while the problem was 
being resolved. 
The boiler was declared beyond economical repair. Mr and Mrs W had it replaced at their 
own expense. They said that they never made a claim for the cost of the boiler.
In December 2020, Mr and Mrs W contacted Ageas to make a claim on their landlords 
insurance policy. The claim was for the cost of the alternative accommodation theyd had to 
provide for their tenants due to the issues with their broken boiler. 
On 9 February 2021, Ageas wrote to Mr and Mrs W to decline their claim. They said thered 
been no insured event, so the claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They said cover wasnt provided for any mechanical or gradually caused damage. 
And because there was no claim for damage, they couldnt cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation either.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with Ageas. They said their claim was a consequence of their 
property being deemed uninhabitable due to the smoke from their broken boiler. They said 
they couldnt find any section of the policy terms that disqualified the claim based on where 
the smoke originated. They confirmed they werent making a claim for any damage to their 
property. But that they were claiming for the cost of the alternative accommodation theyd 
had to cover due to their tenants having to be temporarily evacuated because of the 
dangerous fumes and smoke.
Ageas issued their final response letter to Mr and Mrs W in May 2021. They said the loss 
that was being claimed for was excluded under the policy. And that there was no cover 
under the policy for alternative accommodation where there was no insured damage to the 
property.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said they werent claiming for the replacement boiler. They 
noted that the boiler system had to be replaced, which led to gas and electrical services 
being temporarily unavailable. But that the reason the tenants had to be provided with 
alternative accommodation was due to the smoke and dangerous fumes coming from the 
broken boiler. Under the circumstances, they believed their policy covered them for the cost 
of alternative accommodation. Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He reviewed the policy terms, which he felt 
were typical. He felt that as no claim had been made for smoke damage, cover for 
alternative accommodation hadnt been triggered.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said that they were only claiming for the cost of alternative 
accommodation, not property damage. They said that smoke had rendered the property 
uninhabitable. And they felt that their policy covered them if loss or damage was incurred as 
a consequence of smoke. They didnt agree that there was a qualification in their policy that 
there also had to be damage to the property for a successful claim for alternative 
accommodation. So their complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
This complaint hinges on Mr and Mrs Ws reading of the policy terms and conditions. 
Theyve read the policy terms and concluded that their claim for the cost of alternative 
accommodation should be covered. From what Ive seen, this is because they believe that 
the loss of use of their property is covered under the terms of the policy. While I 
acknowledge their strength of feeling on this point, I dont agree that it is.
Before I look in detail at the policy terms, Id like to cover a point Mr and Mrs W have made. I 
can see that theres been a lack of clarity when their claim has been discussed. I 
acknowledge that at no point did Mr and Mrs W make a claim for the cost of replacing their 
broken boiler. Ageas contact notes reference that Mr and Mrs W only wanted to make a 
claim for the cost of alternative accommodation. 
Ill now look at the policy terms. These explain whats covered under part A of the Buildings 
Section. Ive copied the relevant wording below:
Section 1 - Buildings
What is Covered:
A. Loss of or damage to the Buildings caused by any of the following:
2. Smoke
The policy terms also explain when the cost of alternative accommodation is covered:
What is covered
F. Loss of Rent and the cost of Alternative Accommodation
If the Property is damaged by any cause listed under Section 1A and, as a result, it
cannot be lived in, We will pay:
(a) for Your loss of rent; or
(b) any reasonable extra accommodation expenses; until the Property is ready to be lived in.
 
The terms clearly state that alternative accommodation is only covered if the property is 
damaged by any cause listed under Section 1A. The property then has to be uninhabitable 
as a result of that damage. 
There is no evidence that the property was damaged by the smoke Mr and Mrs W said came 
from their broken boiler. In fact, theyve stated that they werent claiming for any damage to 
their boiler, or to their property. So their claim doesnt meet the terms and conditions of their 
policy. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ageas to cover it. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have taken part A of the Buildings Section to mean that 
any loss of use of their building is covered. But it doesnt say that. It says loss. And section 
F shown above also clearly states that the property mustve been damaged by any cause 
listed under Section 1A for a claim for the cost of alternative accommodation to be covered. 
Put simply, without a successful claim under Section 1A for damage to property, its not 
possible under the terms of the policy to make a successful claim for the cost of alternative 
accommodation. In this case, the smoke Mr and Mrs W said caused the need for alternative 
accommodation wouldve also have had to caused property damage. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but as theres no evidence that the smoke which came 
from the boiler damaged their property, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ageas 
to cover the cost of alternative accommodation in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman