DRN-1834527
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that she was mis-sold a life policy by a predecessor of The Royal London 
Mutual Assurance Society Limited. 
What happened
Miss J was sold the part whole of life/part endowment policy by a door-to-door salesman in 
1982 when she was 16. At the time she was living at home with her parents, attending 
college and doing a Saturday job. 
The policy premiums were 73 pence a week, and Miss J paid these until November 1994 
and cancelled the policy the following month. She received back £180.90. While the policy 
was in operation she was supposed to receive a five-yearly bonus from the endowment 
element, but only one was paid, in 1992, of £131.40.
Miss J made a complaint to Royal London in 2019, which it didn't uphold. Royal London 
highlighted that the policy had been sold well before the introduction of financial regulation 
that came with the Financial Services Act 1986. It felt that in light of the less stringent 
requirements of the day, the policy, usually sold with the purpose avoiding a financial burden 
being passed on to the life assureds next of kin for funeral costs, had been generally 
appropriate for Miss J's requirements.
Miss J didn't accept Royal London's view and referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator, having established that this was a complaint that we were able to consider, 
reached a different conclusion to that reached by Royal London.
He noted that despite the absence of regulation at the time, there'd still been a requirement 
for the agent selling the policy to act with reasonable care and ensure any policy sold was 
appropriate for Miss J's needs. The investigator didn't think Miss J had any discernible need 
for the policy as provision for funeral costs would not have been a priority or of value, 
particularly for someone with no real income.
The investigator felt Royal London should therefore refund the premiums to Miss J, minus 
the amounts already paid, plus interest to reflect her having been deprived of the use of the 
money.
Royal London didn't agree, so the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate that the sale of the policy took place at a very different time, when very different 
rules were in place. And also that the sale of this type of policy to young people at that time 
was not uncommon. 
But Miss J has complained that the policy was mis-sold to her and I have to consider 
whether that is the case on the basis, as noted, of what's fair and reasonable. And in doing 
so, I find it very difficult to conclude that it was appropriate to sell a policy intended to provide 
next-of-kin with a payout to cover funeral expenses to a 16-year old living at home with her 
parents, who had only a minimal income. I can't see the policy as being in any way a 
'reasonable fit' for Miss J's circumstances.  
Putting things right
Royal London must refund the premiums Miss J paid to the policy, taking into account the 
bonus payment and surrender value that she received at differing points in time. It will need 
to add simple interest at a rate of 8% from 1 April 1993 and at a rate of 15% before that date, 
from the date each premium was paid up to the date of its calculation  taking into account 
any payments to Miss J as and when they were made.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld and I direct 
The Royal London Mutual Assurance Society Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman