DRN-2030246
The complaint
Miss D complains about what happened when she rang Ulster Bank Ltd to make a payment 
from her account.
What happened
Miss D said she needed to make a small payment from her account with Ulster, by bank 
transfer. She was in a rush at the time. She rang to do this, and was told shed be put on 
hold. She said she was on hold for a long time, and wasnt told until the call handler picked 
up the call again why that was. She said she was told the money had gone, but it hadnt, and 
she had to call back to make the payment. She said she also had to prompt the call handler 
to take her complaint, which she didnt think should be necessary. She said she shouldnt 
have had to call twice, or spend so long on the phone. And the service was very poor. 
Miss D wanted feedback to be given, and compensation to be paid.
Ulster wrote to Miss D at the time. It couldnt find these calls, but it accepted what she said 
about what happened. It said sorry. But it didnt think compensation was warranted.
When Miss D complained to our service, Ulster found the two calls she made. It said that on 
the first call, there had been no confirmation from its call handler that the payment had been 
made. Hed explained that he had system issues, and tried to confirm payment details, but 
then the call abruptly ended. 
On the second call, the call handler had offered to register a complaint for Miss D, but she 
said shed do it online. So Ulster didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Hed listened to the calls Miss 
D made, and he thought that an apology from Ulster was enough to make up for what had 
gone wrong. He didnt think it needed to do more.
Miss D didnt agree. She didnt think she shouldve had to call twice, and she thought that 
the second call handler shouldve picked up that she was complaining. She said he wasnt 
bothered about taking her complaint. She wanted her case to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I too have listened to the calls Miss D made to Ulster. I can hear that she was on hold for a 
while, and I understand thats frustrating, especially as she was busy at the time. But I dont 
think that in itself requires Ulster to pay compensation. I think an apology is enough to make 
up for that. 
I dont think Miss D was told that her payment was made on this call. It sounds to me like the 
call handler was trying to make the payment when the call cut unexpectedly. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that was Ulsters fault. I think that was why Miss Ds payment wasnt 
made, and she had to call a second time.
Miss D then rang back. Her payment was made, and she expressed dissatisfaction, then 
said that the call handler shouldve proactively offered to take a complaint. He said he could 
do this, but Miss D was on her way to work. He offered a call back, but Miss D said shed 
make the complaint online. I dont think Miss D was given poor service on this call, and I 
dont think it was Ulsters fault that a complaint wasnt registered for Miss D on this call. 
Ulster has apologised to Miss D. I think thats enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I dont think it also has to pay compensation. And because of that, 
although I know Miss D will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman