The complaint
Ms H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited and their failure to repair her faulty grill.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms Hs grill failed so she made a claim on her British Gas HomeCare 
insurance policy. British Gas attended Ms Hs home on 2, 3 and 4 December and made 
attempts to repair the grill. Unfortunately, they were unable to do so and decided that a 
manufacturer engineer would need to attend.
On 17 December, British wrote to Ms H asking her to book another appointment. Ms H 
arranged this appointment for 31 December, between 10am and 2pm. A British Gas 
engineer attended that day but arrived early. Ms H explained as he arrived early, she wasnt 
ready for the visit so he was unable to attend. But, he told Ms H he was there to complete an 
annual service rather than repair the outstanding issue with the grill.
Ms H contacted British Gas on a number of occasions, through email and a previous British 
Gas engineer that had attended, to ask for an update on when the grill would be fixed. At 
some point at the start of 2020, Ms Hs top oven which housed the grill also stopped 
working. Ms H was unhappy with the length of time it was taking to repair her grill so she 
raised a complaint.
Ms H explained shed been without a working grill for what she thought was an unreasonable 
amount of time. And she thought the top oven was now not working due to previous attempts 
to repair the grill. So, she wanted British Gas to arrange for an immediate repair or pay for 
another cooker. 
British Gas didnt uphold the complaint. But, they acknowledged that Ms H was still without a 
grill and booked the manufacturer to attend on 20 April. Unfortunately, this appointment 
wasnt completed due to the lockdown that was imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms 
H wasnt happy with this response as she was still left without a working grill and top oven. 
And she didnt think British Gas were fair to use the pandemic as an excuse. So she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think British Gas had 
dealt with Ms Hs claim promptly and fairly. Although she acknowledged the lock down 
caused by the pandemic, she thought British Gas shouldve completed and closed Ms Hs 
claim before then. She also thought British Gas had led Ms H to believe her grill was being 
repaired on 31 December, when in fact it was an annual service appointment. So, she 
thought British Gas should ensure Ms Hs claim is successfully completed within a month of 
the lockdown restrictions being eased. And, she thought British Gas should pay Ms H £200 
to recognise the inconvenience shed been caused.
DRN-1902345British Gas didnt agree with this view. They accepted theyd confused Ms H by arranging an 
annual service rather than a repair on 31 December. They also agreed the claim had taken 
longer than usual to complete. But they didnt think it was fair to hold them responsible for 
the delays caused by the pandemic. So, our investigators recommendation of a £200 
payment was unfair. Instead, they offered to reimburse Ms Hs premium of £79.20. Ms H 
wasnt happy with this offer. And our investigator maintained her view that a payment of 
£200 was fair. As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute that Ms Hs claim hasnt been progressed as either Ms H or British Gas 
wouldve expected. When Ms H first made her claim in November 2019, I dont think either 
party wouldve expected the claim to be outstanding seven months later. Its clear that Ms H 
has been inconvenienced by the length of time the claim as taken as shes been without her 
grill and later her top oven for a significant period of time. I understand that Ms H had her 
insurance policy in place to protect against this kind of situation so feels let down with the 
events that have taken place. Ive considered the actions British Gas have taken and 
decided whether I deem them to have been both prompt and fair, as I would expect to have 
seen. And in this situation, I dont think they have been.
After Ms H raised her claim, British Gas sent an engineer to her property on three separate 
occasions to try and repair the fault with the grill. I dont think it was the fault of British Gas 
that the fault couldnt be repaired and I think they were fair to suggest the manufacturer 
attend. But its after this I think British Gas have failed to act reasonably.
Ive seen they sent a letter to Ms H on 17 December asking her to book an appointment, 
which she arranged for 31 December. As this was sent after the visits from British Gas 
earlier that month, I think it was reasonable for Ms H to assume this appointment would be 
to repair the issue that was outstanding. British Gas have confirmed this wasnt the case, 
and this was in fact an annual service appointment.
Im aware there was an issue with the time the engineer arrived at Ms Hs house, meaning 
she wasnt ready and the appointment was cancelled. As the engineer attending was there 
to complete an annual service, I dont think hed have been able to repair the issue even if 
hed been able to inspect the grill. But I can understand why Ms H wouldve been left 
frustrated as she thought at the time shed missed out on the chance to have the grill fixed. 
So I think the confusion British Gas created by sending the letter, and the engineer turning 
up earlier than the designated time slot, inconvenienced Ms H and caused her some upset 
that should be recognised.
Ive also seen that after this date, Ms H chased British Gas on a number of occasions to ask 
for an update on when the manufacturer was due to attend. An appointment wasnt set until 
March, for 20 April 2020. Unfortunately, this appointment wasnt able to be completed due to 
the lockdown rules put in force due to the coronavirus outbreak. While I understand that 
British Gas were unable to control the fact a lockdown was put in place, and this has led to 
further delays, I wouldve expected the repair to have been completed or the claim paid out 
before this point. British Gas had three months to ensure the claim was completed before 
the lock down was put in place which I think is a more than reasonable amount of time. So, 
although British Gas has been unable to complete the claim due to the lockdown, I think the 
frustration Ms H has experienced being without a grill and a top oven has arisen from delays caused by British Gas and should be recognised.
Ive also seen that Ms Hs top oven, which houses the grill, failed while the original claim 
was ongoing. As this top oven contains the grill, and Ms H has said the issue arose after the 
engineers visits, I think on balance its likely the fault with the grill is connected. So if the grill 
had been repaired or the claim paid out in a reasonable time frame, I dont think Ms H 
wouldve found herself left without the top oven as well. So, Ive also considered the 
frustration and upset of not being able to use the top oven has caused.
I think being unable to use both the grill and top oven wouldve been frustrating and limiting 
for Ms H. Although I cant say for definite a repair couldve been completed, the terms and 
conditions of the policy explain that in that situation Ms H wouldve been entitled to 30% of 
the cost of a new cooker. I think that if British Gas had acted fairly and promptly, Ms H 
wouldve had a repair completed or a 30% payment before the lockdown was put in place. 
So, to put Ms H back in the position she wouldve been in had British Gas acted fairly, I think 
British Gas must ensure Ms Hs grill and top oven is either repaired or her claim paid out as 
per the terms and conditions within a month of being reasonably able to do so.
Our investigator has also suggested a payment of £200 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience that Ms H has experienced. British Gas thought this was too much and 
suggest a reimbursement of Ms Hs premium. But this payment isnt tied to the premium of 
the policy. Its there to compensate Ms H for the impact British Gass failings have had on 
her over the course of the claim. And due to the length of time the claim has been ongoing, 
and the difficulties Ms H experienced with the appointment at the end of December, I think a 
payment of £200 is a fair one and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct British Gas to pay Ms H £200 in recognition of the impact shes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited and direct them to do the following:
Ensure Ms Hs claim is completed, in line with the terms and conditions of their
policy, with one month of being able to do so.
Pay Ms H £200 to recognise the inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman