DRN-3793942
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) wont refund two payments he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr K says that he made some credit card transactions in March 2021 but didnt receive a 
statement so decided to make a payment of £100 in April to avoid incurring fees or impacting 
his credit rating. Mr K called Sainsburys about his statement, but he was unable to pass 
through security. He was asked to send in documentation to reset his security details. Mr K 
then found out about disputed transactions on his account which I have set out in the table 
below. 
Date Time Amount Location
13/03/21 12:35 £9.20 supermarket
13/03/21 13:33 £4,999.87 wholesaler/supermarket
13/03/21 13:46 Declined payment of £3,287.50
Total £5,009.07
The disputed transactions were made around two hours away from where Mr K lives. He 
says he wasnt in the area and has provided information from his employer to prove this. Mr 
K also says that he has never shared his card or security information with anyone. 
I have set out below a brief summary of events in this case:
26/02/21  call to Sainsburys from someone claiming to be Mr K to update details (address, 
mobile telephone number and email address)
02/03/21  call from same person as last call, requesting that an additional cardholder be 
added to the account
06/03/21  call from the same individual to say they had lost their card and requesting a new 
one. The caller also asked for a PIN reminder
Mr K says he didnt make these three calls and Sainsburys accept they were made by an 
unknown third party. 
08/03/21  new card issued
13/03/21  disputed transactions listed above made using the replacement card that had 
been issued to the new address. There was a failed attempt to log into Mr Ks online banking 
later that afternoon and also a call in which the caller didnt pass the security questions 
asked.
07/04/21  Mr K made a payment of £100 to his credit card account
10/04/21  fraud claim reported to Sainsburys
12/05/21 and 19/05/21  calls with Sainsburys fraud department
Sainsburys hasnt agreed to refund the disputed transactions. It says that Mr K accepted in 
the above calls with its fraud department that he made the £9.20 payment to a supermarket. 
The subsequent larger disputed transaction was made in the same area (and using the 
same replacement card) and so Sainsburys say Mr K made or authorised it, and that he 
knew about the change of details and replacement card. Sainsburys also points out that Mr 
K didnt use his credit card from September 2020 to early March 2021 (when he made a few 
small transactions) so there was little opportunity for compromise. Finally, Sainsburys say 
that making a payment towards an account isnt typical behaviour of someone who is the 
victim of fraud.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld, together 
with a compensation payment of £250 to reflect the additional stress and inconvenience 
Sainsburys caused. She said this because after listening to call recordings and speaking to 
Mr K, she wasnt persuaded Mr K said he made the £9.20 payment. On balance, the 
investigator thought there had been a misunderstanding, possibly because of a language 
barrier, and that Mr K accepted he shopped in the supermarket concerned  but not that he 
made the payment outside of his local area. She also said that when each of the three calls 
were made to change details the caller wasnt Mr K or his son as the voices were different.
Other factors led the investigator to say Mr K didnt make or authorise the disputed 
transactions. For example, Mr K provided evidence he was at work in his local area when 
they took place, contact details were changed to an address many miles from where Mr K 
lives, and attempts were made to clear Mr Ks account. 
Sainsburys didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said:
- Mr K clearly told Sainsburys he made the £9.20 transaction. The larger payment was 
made using the same card very shortly after the £9.20 payment and in the same 
location. Given these points, Sainsburys couldnt accept that one payment was 
genuine and the other wasnt. 
- Mr K wasnt confused when he listed three supermarkets he last used the card in, 
which included the one in which the £9.20 transaction was made. And he last used 
his card in the supermarket the disputed transaction was made in over a year before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking Mr K is 
responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments except in 
more limited circumstances. 
Overall, Im persuaded Mr K didnt make or authorise the disputed transactions and so 
Sainsburys should refund them. I have reached this conclusion because:
- Im satisfied that shortly before the disputed payments were made account 
information was changed by an unknown third party. Ive listened to the calls and the 
voice of the caller is very different to Mr Ks. Following on from this, an unknown third 
party was able to request a new card be sent to the new address that had been 
registered. The caller also asked for a PIN reminder. The replacement card was then 
used to make the transactions (one contactless and the larger payment using Chip and PIN). Although the third party was able to get through Sainsburys security 
process, in two of the calls he said that the credit card bill was paid by direct debit  
which was incorrect. 
- All of the transactions, and the later declined transaction, were made in the same 
area. This area is approximately two hours away from where Mr K lives and works. 
Hes also provided evidence that demonstrates he was at work near his home when 
the disputed transactions were made. 
- Sainsburys main reason for holding Mr K responsible for the transactions is that it 
says in calls he accepted he made the £9.20 payment to a supermarket but not the 
later transaction. This places Mr K, or someone acting on his behalf, and the 
replacement card in the area where the disputed transactions took place. This is an 
important point that I need to address. 
Ill start by considering the call on 12 May 2021. The advisor discussed three 
payments to supermarkets or similar in the area where Mr K lives, and Mr K accepted 
that he made them. The advisor then referred to the £9.20 payment in a different 
supermarket and Mr K said yes indicating hed made the payment. The advisor took 
some time to set up a password with Mr K and to explain CIFAS because Mr K didnt 
understand and asked for things to be repeated. He also asked the advisor to speak 
more slowly, and I note that in regard to a different point Sainsburys own records say 
that the advisor was unable to probe more due to a language barrier. 
I turn now to the call with Sainsburys on 19 May 2021. At the beginning of this call 
Mr K explained that hed appreciate it if the advisor spoke slowly as he has some 
communication issues. He accepted hed made the Tesco payment but when the 
location was discussed Mr K was very clear that all the transactions hed made had 
been in the area where he lives and that he hadnt been out of that area for over a 
year. He confirmed later in the call that hed never been to the area where the 
disputed transactions took place and that maybe he didnt understand as he uses the 
supermarket where the disputed transaction took place, but only in his local area. 
Whilst I understand the point Sainsburys has made about Mr K accepting he made 
the £9.20 transaction, I consider it more likely than not that Mr K misunderstood what 
he was being asked. Its clear that Mr K shops at the supermarket concerned and the 
last payment he made on his account before 3 March 2021 (when he started to use 
his card after a break) was to the same supermarket. But I think Mr K was clear 
throughout his communications that he only used his card in his home area, and 
records Sainsburys has provided support this. There are examples in the calls of Mr 
K not understanding what he was being asked and I think we need to consider the 
whole picture to reach a fair answer in this case. So Im persuaded Mr K agreed hed 
made low value payments in a number of supermarkets before the disputed 
payments but not that he did so in a supermarket some distance from his home. 
- Following the disputed transactions, a further transaction was attempted. The 
payment was declined as it would have taken Mr K above his credit limit. There was 
also a failed attempt to log into Mr Ks online banking. Fraudsters usually try to make 
as many payments as possible in a short space of time before their crime is detected, 
so these actions are in keeping with fraudulent activity. It seems likely the log in 
attempt was to establish Mr Ks credit limit. 
- Mr K has provided evidence which shows that another credit card provider wrote to 
him at the end of February 2021 to ask him to make contact as it needed to check 
some details to rule out fraud. There was no fraud on this account following the other 
banks interaction. So it seems that fraudsters may have also attempted to gain 
access to Mr Ks other credit card account.
- All transactions on Mr Ks credit card account from August 2018 onwards were made in the area where Mr K lives. So transactions outside of this area were unusual for Mr 
K. The larger transaction isnt in line with Mr Ks usual spending activity which is a 
point Sainsburys has raised in its file. In the past the transactions made by Mr K 
were low in value so a payment of nearly £5,000 was very unusual. 
- I dont think the fact Mr K didnt use his credit card for some months before the 
disputed transactions is significant. Its clear from past statements that he didnt use 
his credit card account frequently. 
The investigator recommended that in addition to refunding the disputed transactions 
Sainsburys pay Mr K £250 to compensate him for the additional stress and inconvenience 
its handling of his claim caused. I consider this is a reasonable award. I dont believe that the 
Sainsburys advisors who spoke to Mr K took into account his stated communication 
difficulties, which should have been apparent in any event. Id have expected them to adapt 
their approach and ask Mr K clear and simple questions or suggest that he get support from 
someone else given how important his responses were. 
Overall, I agree with the investigators findings and have set out below how Sainsburys 
should resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to:
- Restructure Mr Ks credit card account as if the disputed transactions didnt take 
place;
- Refund any payments Mr K has made towards the disputed transactions amounting 
to £5,009.07 together with interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
- Pay £250 compensation; and
- Remove any negative markers relating to the disputed transactions from Mr Ks credit 
file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman