DRN-4373760
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to act on his instructions
to transfer money from his Barclays account to his overseas account, since April
2022.
Mr B says he contacted Barclays numerous times, via phone, email, and registered letters,
but nothing happened, and he was ignored. Mr B says that he is retired, and he lives off the
money that he transfers out of his Barclays account.
Mr Bs relative visited a branch on his behalf but was told Mr B would need to visit in person.
Mr B lives overseas and says he was forced to visit the UK to rectify the issue. Mr B says he
is in poor health and incurred many costs to do this.
As a resolution, Mr B would like Barclays to reimburse all costs, provide an apology and
compensate him for his distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Barclays issued its final response letter on 11 May 2023 and said that it wasnt able to
determine any bank error. It explained that it had sent Mr B a notice to close in November
2022, which explained that limitations to the banking services offered would be imposed on
customers with an overseas address.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Barclays had likely
lost the payment instructions Mr B says hed sent. The Investigator didnt think it was
unreasonable that Barclays required Mr B to attend branch to resolve matters, and the
information provided suggested that Mr B visited the UK because of other matters as well
and not just to resolve the issue he was experiencing with his Barclays account. The
investigator also concluded that the likely reasons why Mr B was unable to get a
replacement debit card was either because he was registered as living abroad or possibly
due to infrequent usage of the debit card this stopped it from being automatically replaced.
The investigator acknowledged that Barclays likely failed to action Mr Bs payment
instructions, and this led to Mr B having to call Barclays, which led to him being on the phone
for long periods of time. And so they recommended that Barclays pay Mr B £150 as
compensation for this.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 October 2023 and explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below, and this 
forms a part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and think 
that Barclays should pay more compensation to Mr B than what was proposed by the
investigator. I will explain why.
Mr B has explained that he lives overseas and makes occasional large transfers from 
his Barclays account in the UK to an account he holds with his local bank. Looking 
through Mr Bs statements, I can see that there are indeed occasional one-off large 
transfers leaving the account each year.
I understand that the usual method that Mr B uses to instruct Barclays to make these
transfers is by sending a letter to Barclays in the UK  including the amount he wants 
to transfer, his Barclays account details, the account details of the account he wants 
the money transferred to and copies of two forms of ID within the letter. However, it 
seems that in 2022 Mr B sent a letter to Barclays to request a transfer from his UK 
account to his local account, but it was not acted upon.
Mr B has provided evidence that indicates he sent a number of letters to Barclays to 
carry out the transaction throughout the rest of 2022. As the transfer was still not 
carried out, Mr B flew back to the UK in early 2023 so that he could attend branch. I 
understand the transfer was eventually made, although I understand that the 
payment was initially blocked by Barclays fraud detection system.
Barclays says that it had been unable to find any evidence of contact from Mr B and 
so didnt uphold the complaint. However, this contradicts the evidence that Barclays 
had provided.
Barclays provided copies of two letters itd sent to Mr Bs overseas address, dated 16 
May 2022 and 19 August 2022. These letters acknowledge receiving transfer 
instructions from Mr B, but explain that Mr B needs to get in contact as Barclays 
needs further information before it is able to allow the transfers to be made. Mr B 
says he never received these letters.
Overall, I agree with the investigator in that the evidence does suggest that Mr B had 
written to Barclays and provided instructions to transfer money to his overseas 
account, and Barclays had received these letters. From the information that Barclays 
provided, it seems that the transfer instructions were not initially acted upon because 
it needed more information from Mr B. Unfortunately, Barclays has been unable to 
locate what information was needed to allow the transfers to go through.
In the circumstances, even though this was clearly frustrating for Mr B, Im unable to 
say that Barclays was being unfair or unreasonable in wanting to verify information 
with Mr B before it executed the transfer. Afterall, Barclays is obliged to ensure that 
instructions are legitimate and that requests to transfer money are not involved in 
fraud, scams or money laundering. So it is not unusual, especially when large 
amounts are being transferred to an overseas account, that a bank may want to 
obtain further information from the account holder first, before it executes a transfer 
request.
Mr B says that he didnt receive the two letters that were sent to him. However, the 
letters look to have been correctly addressed and I think its likely that they were sent 
to him. So I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible if the letters got lost in the 
post. As such, I dont think Barclays can reasonably be held responsible for the 
transfer instructions not being actioned up until August 2022.But that being said, Mr B has provided evidence that indicates he sent the payment
instructions to Barclays after the August 2022 letter. For example, there is evidence 
that Mr B wrote to Barclays in September and October 2022. The letter sent in 
October looks to have been correctly addressed (to Barclays Leicester address), and 
so I think Barclays likely received the letters. After all, it had evidently received the 
earlier letters, including ones received in May and August 2022. Barclays has said 
that it has no record of receiving these  but I think its more likely than not that it did, 
given Mr Bs history of posting these and them being received. I think its likely that 
Barclays simply didnt act on them, or that they may have been lost in its systems.
I note that Mr B also wrote to Barclays in November 2022. However, as he didnt 
include any information in the letter to identify himself, nor did he identify which 
account he was writing about, Barclays cant reasonably have been expected to have 
responded to this letter. But I think it could have responded to the letters in a quicker 
and more proportionate way before this.
From what I have seen, it seems that Barclays didnt react to the further letters that 
Mr B sent until December 2022. From the evidence I have been provided with, it 
seems that by this stage Mr B had a raised a complaint with Barclays about his 
transfer instructions not being actioned. It seems that Barclays emailed Mr B to say 
that itd tried calling him but was unable to reach him and asked that he calls back, 
and provided a telephone number for him to call. Therefore, it seems that from 
December 2022 Barclays did try and reach out to Mr B to assist him in making the 
transfer. I can see that Mr B emailed back saying he tried to call but was unable to 
speak to anyone.
In the circumstances, I think that Barclays shouldve done more to assist Mr B before
December 2022. I say this particularly given that Barclays had requested Mr B to get 
in contact about the transfer, and it didnt then react to Mr Bs later letters repeating 
the transfer request. In such circumstances, I think that Barclays shouldve taken 
steps to contact Mr B again to obtain the necessary information so that the transfer 
could be executed. But other than sending Mr B a letter in November 2022 saying 
that it would close his account (as his address was based overseas), I cant see that 
it did anything more regarding the transfer requests until December 2022.
Had Barclays responded to Mr Bs letters sent in September and October 2022, and 
asked Mr B for the information it needed, I think that the payment couldve been 
processed a number of months before it eventually was. And based on what Mr B 
has told us, the delay in making the payment had a significant impact on him.
Mr B says that he was relying on accessing the money for his day-to-day living 
expenses and also having to pay for medical bills. In the circumstances, I think that 
Barclays failure to act on the instructions partly contributed to Mr Bs distress and 
inconvenience. And given that he lived overseas; didnt have access to online 
banking; didnt have an active debit card; and he was not able to attend branch, 
wouldve been very frustrating for him.
However, Im not persuaded that itd be fair to hold Barclays liable for the costs of his 
flights to and from the UK. Mr B says he had to make these to resolve this issue with 
Barclays. But it does appear to be an issue that could potentially have been resolved 
in a different way  such as using the phone.
Mr B says he tried this - but although Mr B says he called Barclays many times, 
based on the telephone number that he provided in his itemised phone bill, he was in fact calling the wrong number. It seems that Mr B had been calling Barclays 
international bank  which although it shares its name with Barclays, is in fact a 
separate business that is based outside of the UK. And so when Mr B called the 
international bank it would not have been able to assist Mr B, as he was not a 
customer of that bank. Nor would it have been able to assist him in making the 
transfer. Therefore, it seems that an element of the difficulties Mr B faced was 
because he was calling the wrong number.
I note that Mr B chose to fly to the UK to try and resolve matters. I recognise that he
wouldve incurred a considerable expense in buying long haul flights for him and his 
wife. However, looking at the Visa letter that Mr B has provided, it appears that they 
flew to the UK to resolve his issue with Barclays, but also to deal with matters about 
his pension and about insurance. So in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that 
Barclays should pay Mr B for his costs to fly back to the UK.
Finally, I note that when Mr B went to make a transfer in branch, the transfer got 
blocked by Barclays fraud detection system. And Mr B had to spend a fair amount of 
time in getting the transfer unblocked. I recognise that this wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr B, especially given the difficulties hed faced until then in making a transfer. 
But Barclays fraud detection system is there to protect its customers from fraudulent 
activity, so I cant reasonably criticise Barclays for wanting to verify the transfer first 
(as it had attempted to do so in May and August 2022) before executing the transfer. 
But that being said, I understand that Barclays did then set Mr B up for online 
banking. I think this is a positive step as it should give him much better access to his 
Barclays account from overseas, rather than him having to send letters through the 
international postal system.
Putting matters right
When deciding on how much compensation should be paid to Mr B, I have taken into
account various factors.
For example, Mr B sent the transfer instruction (for what appears to have been either 
the third or fourth time) in September 2022. But Barclays didnt take any action to 
contact Mr B to ensure his instructions could be carried out until December 2022. 
And it seems it only did this as Mr B had raised a complaint with Barclays by that 
stage.
By this point, I recognise Mr B had not had access to his money for some time and it 
sounds like he was getting into a desperate situation, whereby he says he was 
having to sell items off to make ends meet as his funds were running low. It also 
seems that Mr B was in a precarious financial situation as he was having to pay for 
medication, yet at that point in time he didnt know how much longer hed have to 
wait until he could transfer the money from his Barclays account to his local account.
I think taking three months to contact Mr B is unreasonable and this delay clearly 
added to the distress that Mr B was already experiencing, particularly as he was 
suffering from poor health at the time. I acknowledge that Mr B wouldve felt helpless, 
given that the transfers were not being executed and Barclays were not responding 
to his requests, all of which was not helped by the fact that he couldnt attend branch, 
didnt have access to online banking, and he didnt have a working debit card either.  
When deciding what a fair amount is here, I think there are also mitigating factors 
that apply. For example, Barclays did write to Mr B in May 2022 and August 2022 to 
ask for more information so that it could execute the transfer. Mr B says he didnt receive these letters, but they look to have been correctly addressed. So I dont think 
its reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for any distress and inconvenience Mr B 
experienced between April and August 2022 i.e. because he didnt receive Barclays 
responses to his transfer requests.
Im also mindful that Mr B was at times, calling the wrong number  which is 
something I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for. I say this especially as 
Barclays included the correct telephone numbers in its letters (for example, in its 
account closure letter sent in November 2022). And it seems that Barclays, on 
occasion, did try and contact Mr B to discuss this matter. Again, I cant reasonably 
blame Barclays if Mr B didnt pick up (or if the call didnt connect).
Im also mindful that, it seems Mr B flew to the UK for other matters (he and his wife 
mention his pension and insurance, as well as his bank account). Because of this, I 
cant rule out the possibility that he would still have incurred the inconvenience and 
cost of flying back to the UK, even if his transfer had been successfully made in 
2022.
Finally, I should add that I can only award compensation to eligible complainants. I 
can see that Mr Bs representative had a bit of back and forth visiting Barclays 
branches in February and March 2023 and was on the phone for a fair amount of 
time to try and resolve matters on behalf of Mr B. But it is the case I cant award any 
compensation for that.
Given all of the above, when weighing up what I think is fair and reasonable, I 
currently think that Barclays should pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced.
After I issued my provisional decision, Barclays responded and accepted my provisional 
decision. Mr Bs representative also responded. In summary he said:
How could Barclays expect Mr B to attend branch given that he lives so far away 
from the UK?
Should it be a problem getting a debit card?
Why were the transfer requests blocked?
There seemed to be contradictions as to whether Barclays received the letters.
Mr B had to come to the UK to deal solely with his Barclays account.
Mr B had given verbal and written authorisation for the representative to deal with 
matters on his behalf.
Mr B had to return to branch and was humiliated for fraudulent banking.
Barclays gave no support to Mr B who is seriously ill.
The representative has been awarded more compensation in county court when 
pursuing matters against banks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including Mr Bs representative response, I still think that 
the outcome I reached in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.Firstly, I note that the representative says it is unreasonable that Mr B was expected to 
attend branch. And in the circumstances, I can see why he would say that. But as outlined in 
my provisional decision, I think that Mr B couldve resolved matters over the phone, so as to 
avoid attending branch. But it seems that Mr B wasnt able to do this because he was calling 
the wrong number, which I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for.
In terms of Mr B not having a debit card, it seems that Mr B was operating his account 
without one for a number of years without it being an issue. So, if it was the case he wanted 
or needed one, then this is something he wouldve needed to discuss with Barclays  
especially as it seems that him living abroad affected his ability to have one, or at least 
affected the auto renewal process once his existing debit card had expired. I understand he 
has since been issued with one now that the account is registered at a UK address.
The representative has asked why the transfer requests were blocked. Unfortunately, I dont 
have the details for that. But given the very high levels of fraud at present and the increased 
regulations placed on banks to protect their customers from fraud, blocking such 
transactions is now unfortunately not particularly unusual - especially if the amounts being 
transferred are large or are being sent abroad, as is the case here. Although in most cases, 
such a block can be removed fairly quickly once the bank has had a chance to discuss the 
transaction with the account holder first. It is the case that, unfortunately, Barclays never got 
round to doing this, until that is, Mr B visited the branch. It also seems that Barclays didnt 
process Mr Bs request for the representative to have authority to act on his behalf. So, in 
the circumstances, I do think Barclays shouldve done more to ensure Mr Bs instructions 
were carried out. And this is why I think an increased amount of compensation (compared to 
what was first proposed) is warranted in this case.
In terms of the letters Barclays sent, the representative says that they could have been 
falsified after the event. However, that allegation could equally be made about the copies of 
the letters that Mr B provided our service with (although, to be clear, I dont think that is the 
case here). Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays did receive Mr Bs letters requesting the 
transfers and Im satisfied that Barclays did write to Mr B in May 2022 and August 2022 to 
request more information from Mr B, before it could execute the transfer.
The representative says that Mr B did only come to the UK to deal with the issue he was 
experiencing with Barclays. However, I have to take into account all of the evidence that is 
provided by all parties. And the letters that Mr B has provided indicate that he came to the 
UK for reasons other than just to resolve the issue he had with Barclays. For example, in 
one of the letters, it mentions Mr B needing to visit the UK with his wife to sort out matters 
relating to insurance, as well as banking and pension matters. And as mentioned above, I 
still think that Mr B wouldve been able to resolve matters without needing to visit the UK, 
had he called the correct numbers for Barclays.
When Mr B did make a transfer during his branch visit, I understand it got blocked (again) 
and he spent some time on the phone to Barclays fraud department, before the transfer was 
allowed to proceed. Although Mr B mayve felt humiliated by this, as Barclays was only 
acting in the interests of protecting Mr B and his money from fraud, I cant say that Barclays 
acted unfairly or unreasonably because of this. I should also add that, from what I 
understand, the branch staff would not have been able to avoid or cancel the block that was 
applied - this could only be done by the fraud department. So, I cant say that the staff in 
branch were being unfair or unreasonable towards Mr B when the transfer was blocked, 
even if hed already explained to them the difficulties hed experienced up to that point in 
making the transfers.
Finally, I note that the representative says he has received more compensation in the past 
when taking banks to the small claims court. I would like to explain that The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to going to court and is designed to resolve complaints 
fairly and informally. Mr B is free to not accept my decision and take the matter to court, if he 
so wishes. I cant provide any advice or guidance on whether he should do so. I can only 
suggest he seek independent legal advice if this is a course of action he is considering 
taking.
Putting things right
So, weighing everything up, I still think that Barclays should pay Mr B £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience that he experienced because of this matter. 
Overall, I think this amount fairly reflects the impact this matter has had on Mr B  for the 
aspects of the complaint that I think Barclays can reasonably be held responsible for.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Barclays Bank PLC to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right, in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman