DRN-2032225
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mr Ds credit card account when he applied for the card by filling in a paper application and 
Mr D told us this was done during a meeting in an RBS branch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D mainly told us that he wasnt aware that the PPI was optional and he ticked the PPI box 
because it was recommended and he understood he had to have it. Mr D told us PPI wasnt 
something he needed as his employer provided the same benefits at no cost to him. Mr D 
said that if hed understood it was optional, he wouldnt have taken out PPI.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken carefully into account the reason why Mr D told us he signed to have PPI. But this 
was a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr D to recall exactly what he 
had in mind at the time. I have to look at all the available information and the wider 
circumstances and decide what I think is most likely. What Mr D says now isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I think RBS made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say 
this because on the credit card application he completed there were a range of optional 
extras offered on the form. It looks like he chose not to sign up for all the options that were 
offered with the card. But where it says PAYMENT PROTECTION theres a brief 
description of the cover offered and it says For cover just tick this box. The application has 
been ticked here indicating that Mr D wanted to take out PPI to protect his credit card 
repayments. He also signed the completed application at the end indicating that he agreed 
with the information on the form.
I dont know what was said about PPI when Mr D applied for his credit card. But I can see 
that it says on the application form that applicants are strongly recommended to take out 
PPI. So thats not wording that wouldve been used if Mr D didnt have any choice about 
taking it out  and it doesnt say anywhere that applicants had to take out PPI. 
So I think its likely that Mr D wouldve understood at the time that if he hadnt wanted PPI he 
couldve left the PPI option unticked. 
I can completely understand if hes forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think RBS made 
Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
RBS says it didnt advise Mr D to take out the policy  Mr D says it did. Looking at the 
paperwork from the sale and what we know about how RBS sold policies in its branches at 
the time, I dont think its likely RBS gave a personal recommendation about PPI to Mr D. 
But I can see this is central to Mr Ds concerns about the way he was sold this PPI. So Ive 
thought about whether my decision would be different if RBS did recommend him to take out 
the policy  and it makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even if RBS had 
recommended the PPI to Mr D I think PPI wouldve been suitable for him. 
RBS still shouldve given Mr D clear enough information so he was able to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him. And I've taken carefully into account what 
Mr Ds representatives have said about this. 
If RBS didnt give Mr D information it shouldve done, then I have to think about whether this 
made any overall difference to Mr D. 
Ive taken into account that Mr Ds employer wouldve paid him 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per 
accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than he couldve relied on 
getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr D with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.  
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr D lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr D if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr D some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Mr D also told us that he had no significant other means to rely on if he wasnt able to work. 
Based on everything hes told us, I think that Mr D couldve benefitted from the PPI  and 
had it been recommended to him, I would say that the policy was suitable for Mr D.  
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mr D. So, 
I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr Ds decision to take out PPI.
I dont think its likely that RBS properly explained the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Mr D made a claim. But he chose to have the policy when he didnt have to  and I havent 
seen anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for him when he signed up for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr D, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
This means The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr D.But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D 
because: 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. 
Because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman