DRN-3955532
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Very, who is a trading name of Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. 
Mr W is complaining that Very has added interest on purchases which he had fully repaid 
over three instalments (to avoid interest charges).
 
For the purposes of this decision, I have referred to Shop Direct throughout as it is 
accountable for the actions of Very.
What happened
Mr W opened a Shop Direct shopping account in April 2020. He would purchase items using 
the Take Three payment option. This allowed Mr W to spread the cost of his purchases 
over three consecutive payments without interest. 
When Mr W first opened his account, Shop Direct would send him a statement every 28 
days and allowed him 20 days to make each payment when it became due. 
In November 2020 Shop Direct told its customers it planned to change its statement cycle 
from four-weekly to monthly instead. So, after the change, Mr W would be spreading the cost 
of his purchase across three consecutive months. And in order to ensure that no interest 
would be charged, each monthly payment needed to be made prior to the payment due date, 
as set out on Mr Ws monthly statement.   
Mr Ws account was changed from March 2021 and he was given a statement date of the 7th 
day of each month. This date was fixed, and Mr Ws request to change it to one closer to his 
payday was refused. The date of Mr Ws statement meant his payments needed to be made 
by the 27th of each month. 
Following the change, and because Mr W was paid on the first day of every month, he made 
two payments within the same month. The first was the minimum contractual payment 
before the 27th of the month (as set out as a minimum payment on his statement, and which 
would also include any instalment not being paid under the Take Three arrangement). Mr W 
would then make a second payment after the 27th of the month once hed been paid. This 
second payment was to cover anything outstanding for the Take Three instalment for that 
month, and it was made before the next statement date of the 7th day of the following month. 
For the time Mr W was making his payments in this way he was not charged any interest. 
Mr W then noticed that Shop Direct had started to charge interest from February 2022 on the 
items he purchased using the Take Three payment option. Mr W hadnt changed the way 
he made payments to his account so he complained to Shop Direct.
Shop Direct replied to Mr Ws complaint and explained that it had applied interest to his 
account in line with its terms and conditions. It also explained that to avoid paying interest, 
Mr W needed to pay the Take Three instalments on or before his payment date  the 27th 
day of each month (not just the minimum payment by the 27th of the month). Shop Direct 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the response Mr W got from Shop Direct, he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint. He concluded that Shop Direct had acted 
in line with its terms and conditions. He didnt think it was fair to ask Shop Direct to refund 
the interest it charged Mr W and didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more than likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
My starting point is Mr Ws account terms and conditions. These say:
4. Statement and Payment Due Date: you will be sent a statement every month if there is a 
payment due to be made. The statement will set out the minimum payment due for that 
month. The due date for payment, which is a fixed date every month, will be 20 days after 
the date of your statement and with each statement we will notify you of the payment due 
date.
And:
6. Your Take 3 Payment: if you have made a new purchase which qualifies for the Take 3 
Facility, or you have paid your Take 3 Payment the previous month, we will tell you the 
amount of your optional Take 3 Payment on your statement. This is made up of the total of 
all payments due on transactions qualifying for Take 3 plus the minimum payment for the 
remainder of transactions on the Standard Facility, plus default charges due and any 
arrears.
If you wish to avoid paying any interest on Take 3 Transactions you must pay the Take 3 
Payment in full. If you do not do so you will lose the benefit of interest opt out on all your 
current Take 3 Transactions and will start incurring interest on the outstanding balance on all 
these transactions. Interest will be charged from the start of that statement period or, if you 
did not pay the first Take 3 Payment, from the date the transaction was charged to the 
account in the preceding statement period.
Ive thought about Shop Directs account terms and Im satisfied they do allow it to charge 
Mr W interest should he not pay the full Take Three instalment by his payment due date 
each month. But they do not explain the reason Mr W was not charged interest between 
March 2021 and February 2022, when he had been paying the balance of his Take Three 
instalment after his payment due date (but before his next statement date).
Shop Direct explained to our investigator that an error within its account management 
system was responsible for a loophole, which meant Mr W wasnt charged in line with the 
account terms. The loophole showed payments of Take Three instalments received before the next statement date as made in time, even when they had been received after the 
payment due date. Shop Direct had found the error and put a fix in place before Mr Ws 
March 2022 statement. 
I find it disappointing that Shop Direct didnt seek to inform its customers about the change it 
made to its systems in March 2022 or to remind them about the effect of not paying Take 
Three instalments before the payment due date. I would be surprised if Mr W is the only 
customer caught by Shop Directs fix to its account management system, given the lender 
found sufficient value in closing the loophole. I also note Mr Ws suggestion that his practice 
of making two payments was endorsed during a call to Shop Direct after it changed his 
statement cycle  but I can find no record of such a call in its contact history.
So, I have thought very carefully about whether Mr W has lost out. At the time of making his 
complaint, Shop Direct had charged Mr W around £35 in interest. But having reviewed the 
purchases Mr W made between March 2021 and February 2022, I think it is more likely than 
not that he has avoided more interest than the amount he has been charged. In the 
circumstances, and given the interest charged since February 2022 was applied in line with 
the account terms, I think it would be unreasonable to tell Shop Direct to make any 
adjustment to Mr Ws account.
I realise my findings will come as a disappointment to Mr W, and they are not meant to 
disregard or ignore the clear frustration caused to him, but based on what Ive seen Im 
unable to say that Shop Direct shouldnt have added interest to his account from February 
2022 onwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman