DRN-1834495
The complaint
Mrs Ps unhappy with her dealings with Metro Bank UK PLC after she fell victim to a scam. 
She says it should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
On 23 May 2019 Mrs P went to a Metro branch to authorise two faster payments, totalling 
£1,400, to who she believed was a travel agent for a holiday. She then contacted Metro on 
29 May 2019 to confirm shed been the victim of a scam. 
Metro contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the scammer) that morning to try 
and recover Mrs Ps funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise only 
around £500 remained in the account. Metro eventually paid £657.40, representing the 
amount recovered, into Mrs Ps account.
Unhappy with Metros decision not to reimburse the outstanding £742.60, Mrs P complained 
to us. Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Metro 
ought to have done more to identify the scam in the circumstances. And they felt Metro had 
done enough to try and recover the full funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Metro are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs P when she transferred £1,400 in total, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mrs P lost most of this money. But, having looked at the 
circumstances, I think Metro acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the money to leave 
Mrs Ps account. And I cant see that the steps it took to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank caused her any financial loss. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse 
Mrs P for the money that hasnt been recovered. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps accepted that she authorised the payments herself. Because of this, Metro had an 
obligation to follow Mrs Ps instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding them.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payments in terms of either their value or type that ought to have alerted Metro to the 
scam. So, I think the fact that Metros systems didnt flag the payments as suspicious was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P transferred the money in-branch and presumably spoke to staff there about doing so. 
However, I cant say for sure what was discussed or that Metro missed an opportunity to 
uncover the scam at that point. Even if there was a discussion about what the payments 
were for, the elaborate nature of the scam used to trick Mrs P meant it was unlikely Metro 
would have been able to provide any more insight into what was actually happening. 
Mrs P contacted Metro on 29 May 2019 when she became aware that shed been the victim 
of a scam  six days after authorising the payments. Metro raised a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary bank a little less than two hours later to request a return of the 
funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank confirmed that not all of the funds remained. I 
dont find that surprising given how quickly scammers typically withdraw funds. 
Any further investigation into what happened to the money after it left the beneficiary 
accounts wasnt the responsibility of Metro, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank promptly to try and retrieve the money was 
all Metro could do to help Mrs P at that stage.
I recognise that Metro could reasonably have contacted the beneficiary bank more quickly 
once it became aware of the scam. But, given that Mrs P had transferred the money six days 
earlier, I find it unlikely that this relatively small delay adversely affected her chances of 
recovering more money than she did.  
While I appreciate Mrs Ps been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Metros decision not 
to reimburse her for the remainder of her loss in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Ps instructions to make the payments and 
I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I dont think the steps it took 
to try and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam caused her any loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman