The complaint
Mr W complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) poorly handled a claim he made under 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr W was involved in a collision with another vehicle while driving.
Later that day, Mr W called esure to let it know of the accident. He explained he was driving 
along a road with vehicles parked on either side. He said hed looked over his shoulder to 
ensure he didnt touch a car parked on double yellow lines on his side of the road, then 
heard a bang, and realised hed collided with another vehicle driving past. Mr W said the 
third party had driven on his side of the road and hadnt been paying attention. 
esure contacted the third-party insurer and offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability 
basis. But the third-party insurer disagreed, defending the claim and saying it would initiate 
court proceedings for a 100% liability settlement. It sent esure photos which showed the 
damage was to the side of the third-partys vehicle and said this showed Mr W was at fault.
esure agreed the damage could indicate Mr W had driven into the third-party, as the damage 
wasnt reflective of a head on collision. And considering there were no independent 
witnesses, and that Mr W had said hed been looking behind him just before the accident, 
esure decided not to defend the claim any further. So it settled the claim in full. 
Mr W was unhappy with esures decision and raised a complaint. esure maintained its 
position, saying it had settled the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
terms allowed esure to decide on whether to settle the claim or not, and he was satisfied it 
had considered all of the evidence available before doing so. Mr W disagreed so the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why. 
Mr W has said esure acted negligently and didnt present his case as it shouldve. He's also 
explained at length why he believes he wasnt at fault for the accident. 
DRN-1709797When considering this complaint, my role is to decide if esure has acted fairly and 
reasonably when assessing Mr Ws claim  taking into account all of the evidence and the 
relevant policy terms. Not to consider which party was at fault for the accident itself.
So I have looked at Mr Ws policy terms. Under a section titled Claims procedure, it says:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit.
This means the decision with how to proceed with a claim (including choosing to defend or 
settle a claim) is at esures discretion  providing it does so in a fair and reasonable way. 
And in turn this means it doesnt need to seek permission or consent from a policyholder 
when making these decisions. This is a common term in motor insurance policies.
In doing so, I would expect esure to consider all the available evidence before making a 
decision to settle or defend a claim. So Ive looked at the evidence it relied on. 
Its not in dispute that there were no independent witness statements or a police report from 
the time of the accident. This means the evidence available was Mr Ws and the third partys 
version of events, alongside the damage caused to both vehicles. 
esure accepted liability because Mr W had said hed looked over his shoulder to overtake a 
parked car on his side of the road just before the accident happened. And it said the damage 
to the third-partys vehicle was on the side and not the front indicating Mr W drove forward 
when the third party vehicle was already in his path. In the absence of other evidence, Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable conclusion for esure to reach.
Im also satisfied esure had considered all available evidence when it made this decision. 
And as esure had said a 50/50 split would be the best possible settlement for the claim, I 
think its decision to not proceed to court was fair and reasonable as it didnt believe it had a 
reasonable prospect of success. I say this especially as the damage to both vehicles wasnt 
at the front so joint liability couldnt be argued based on a head on collision. 
Mr W has provided photos from the scene of the accident and said this proves the other 
driver was on the wrong side of the road. I can see esure considered these photos and said 
theyre inconclusive of the exact location of the accident as they are close ups of Mr Ws 
vehicle and dont show the whole road. Having reviewed them myself, I agree they dont 
provide clarity on how the accident itself happened, nor would I think they outweigh Mr Ws 
own comments that his focus was over his shoulder at the time of the incident. So these 
photos haven't changed my mind.
Mr W says esure didnt thoroughly investigate the accident itself or present the available 
evidence to the third party as hed have liked and referred its claims handling as negligent. 
Under the policy terms, esure doesnt need to present all the information available to the 
third-party insurer if it doesnt think this will hold any weight in defending the claim. As it 
settled the claim in line with the policy terms, and it did consider all the available evidence 
when making this decision, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Mr W has also complained about the cost of his policy and the value esure offered for his car 
after it was written off. However these issues werent part of his complaint to esure and I 
cant see its had an opportunity to address them. So if Mr W would like these points to be 
investigated, he will need to raise them to esure in the first instance. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman