DRN-2295990
The complaint
Mr D has complained about NewDay Ltds offer of compensation in response to his credit 
card complaint. 
What happened
Mr D applied to take out a branded credit card in a store in January 2020. He didnt realise 
that his purchase from that day had been added to his newly opened credit card. He 
believed hed paid for the item on his debit card, which hed handed over to the cashier. 
In March 2020 Mr D received a Notice of Default Sums as he hadnt made a payment to the 
account. Mr D paid off the credit card balance and complained to NewDay. He explained he 
wasnt aware the purchase had been added to the credit card, so he didnt know to make an 
earlier payment. He said he believed hed paid for his purchase on his debit card as hed 
handed this to the cashier. He also said he didnt receive an earlier statement from NewDay 
advising him to make a payment. 
NewDay accepted the complaint. It acknowledged that the correct procedures hadnt been 
followed in store. It offered some reassurances that feedback had been given to those 
involved and extra training would be offered. In view of the error it refunded the late payment 
fee and interest. It also credited his account with £10 and said it would remove any adverse 
markers from his credit file. Mr D wasnt satisfied with the complaint resolution. He said hed 
been distressed and financially disadvantaged by NewDays mistake and so felt he should 
have been offered additional compensation to put things right. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that NewDays resolution was 
reasonable in the circumstances as it put Mr D back in the position he would have been in 
had the error not occurred. He didnt agree that NewDay had taken too long to consider the 
complaint. And he felt that £10 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator said that NewDay wasnt responsible for the actions of the members of staff 
in store, but that it had nevertheless put right their mistakes. He also explained that NewDay 
was obliged to report the missed payment to the credit reference agencies, as that was a 
true and accurate reflection of the account. But when it became aware of the mistake it had 
corrected this. He was also persuaded that NewDay had correctly issued a credit card 
statement in February 2020. As this was correctly addressed, he didnt think NewDay could 
be held responsible if it wasnt received.   
Mr D disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. He didnt agree that £10 compensation reflected the distress and inconvenience 
hed experienced. He said he was already severely overdrawn at the time he received the 
Notice of Default Sums. He said he felt pressured to make the payment in full which meant 
he was then unable to meet his other monthly expenses. He also questioned who was 
responsible for the actions of the members of staff if it wasnt NewDay.  
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that NewDay has done enough to fairly and reasonably resolve 
this complaint. So, I wont be asking it to do anything else. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr D, so Id like to explain how I reached this conclusion. 
I should explain that while NewDay doesnt employ the members of store staff that sold Mr D 
the credit card, it was nevertheless responsible for the way the credit card was sold. This is 
why it accepted the complaint and paid compensation as it has. As NewDay has accepted 
there were errors in the sales process theres no need for me to comment on this further, 
other than to confirm I agree with its conclusions. 
When a business makes an error thats disadvantaged its customer, wed expect it to take 
steps to return the consumer (as far as possible) to the position they were in before the 
mistake took place. Im satisfied NewDay has done this. It has removed any trace of the 
missed payment from the account and Mr Ds credit file. It also refunded the late payment 
fee. So Mr D only had to pay for the item he purchased. 
The only thing left for me to consider is whether the compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances, and I think it is. I accept that Mr D was inconvenienced by having to 
complain, but I think the compensation offered fairly recognises this. Ive seen nothing else 
to persuade me that Mr D experienced any other significant trouble or upset. So I wont be 
asking NewDay to pay any additional compensation. 
Ive considered what Mr D has said about being pressured to make the payment in full, 
which he said led to him missing financial commitments elsewhere. But I note the letter from 
NewDay is clear that Mr D was only required to make a minimum payment. I cant hold 
NewDay responsible if he chose to make a larger payment. Im also mindful that Mr D 
believed hed paid for the item in full on the day of purchase in January. As no payment was 
actually taken on that day I cant say he was in any worse position by making the payment in 
full in March.
Overall, Im satisfied that NewDay has considered Mr Ds complaint fairly and reasonably 
and has taken the appropriate steps to put him back into the position hed have been had no 
error occurred. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman