DRN-4235829
The complaint
Mr T complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim for damage to 
his car under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car. 
The catalytic convertor was stolen from his car and he made a claim from esure.
When he made the claim, esures claims handler mistakenly told him that his excess would 
be zero, when it should have been £250. This information was later corrected by esure.
His car was booked into esures approved repairer, but when it looked at his car the repairer 
said it was only able to carry out bodywork repairs.
Mr T had to speak with esure several times for several hours about the problems he was 
having.
The repairer wouldnt give him a courtesy car. esure arranged for a hire car to be provided to 
Mr T as he had an important journey to make.
Mr T felt that his car was exposed to further damage or theft while it was left in position. 
esure told him it would be able to collect the car on a certain date, but this was incorrect. 
esure then said it would only collect his car when the spare parts arrived. 
esure looked into his complaint. It agreed its service had been poor and it apologised and 
paid £200 to Mr T for his distress and inconvenience. It also said it would provide internal 
feedback to its staff whod given Mr T the wrong and conflicting information.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and said he agreed esure had given Mr T the wrong information, but it had corrected 
this. It had also supplied Mr T with a hire car when he wasnt entitled to one under his policy. 
He thought esures payment of £200 compensation was fair.
Mr T didnt agree with the view and asks for £2,000 to settle the complaint. Because he 
didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important I say that this service can explore what esure did during Mr Ts claim and I can 
make assessments about whether its service has been fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at the evidence Ive been provided and its clear that esure made mistakes in its 
dealings and communications with Mr T during his claim. But I think it corrected those 
mistakes and, while I dont doubt it caused some impact to Mr T, I think esures response 
has been fair and reasonable. So Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate my 
decision will fall short of Mr Ts expectations, and Ill explain why Ive made this decision.
Excess
Ive looked at what happened when Mr T made his claim. He was told that he didnt have to 
pay an excess on his claim. This was later corrected by esure to say he needed to pay £250. 
I can understand why Mr T feels strongly about this as he was given the wrong information 
by esure and I think its reasonable to expect a company to tell a customer the correct 
amount.
The policy schedule Ive looked at say theres a theft excess of £250 payable by Mr T. And 
the policy wording says:
Excess, excesses - The amount you must pay towards any claim for loss or damage 
to your car or other specified instances of damage or loss. The amounts are shown in 
your Schedule.
So Mr T would clearly need to pay the excess towards his claim. I appreciate he was given 
the incorrect information early on in his claim, but esure then corrected this bringing it into 
line with the policy wording. esure took this into account when it paid Mr T compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience. 
Repairer
Mr T has complained about esure nominating a repairer which was unable to repair his car. I 
can see in esures notes that it was confused by this as its repairers are expected to be able 
to carry out a wide range of work. I can see that when Mr T complained about this, esures 
response was to allocate a new repairer quickly.
Its not clear to me why the first repairer refused to handle his car, and as it was working on 
esures behalf I dont think this was good service. But esures response was reasonable by 
allocating an alternative repairer.
Courtesy car
There was a period of time during the claim when Mr T was being told conflicting information 
about whether hed be able to get a courtesy car. 
Again, if I look at the policy wording it says:
Our Courtesy car service
A courtesy car is provided whilst your car is being repaired by the recommended 
repairer as part of a valid claim
Because Mr Ts repairs were typically short-duration (theres a mention in his evidence of it 
being done overnight) I can see that esures repairer said he wouldnt be entitled to a 
courtesy car. I also understand he made several calls to esure about the provision of one to 
esure and its approved repairer. 
I can see Mr T found this experience particularly stressful as he had an important trip to 
make and he spent a great deal of time trying to get a car. esure provided him with a hire car 
he could use. Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr T. Its important that I re-state he wasnt entitled 
to a courtesy car under the terms of his policy until the car was actually being repaired. He 
complained about this and spent a great deal of time on the phone about it, and esure then 
provided him with one. Taking everything into account, I think esures response in providing 
him with a hire car outside of the cover hed purchased was a fair and reasonable response. 
Location of the car
Mr T has explained to this service his distress at his car being left in the same position as 
when the catalytic converter was stolen from it. Hes said the car wasnt viewable from his 
home and he thought its lack of day-to-day movement might make it appear to be a suitable 
target for vandalism or for spare parts, or even being stolen.
Its very clear to me that Mr T was very worried about what might happen to his car and hes 
explained in detail about how he was trying to organise moving it to a slightly better location. 
esure has said it cant collect cars for a catalytic converter replacement until the parts are 
ready  this is because it says it has no storage capacity and the job to replace them is 
typically fairly short.
Mr T said he couldnt move the car himself and he asked that esure move it to a more 
suitable location. esure wouldnt do this and it couldnt collect it as Ive said above, although 
it did tell him it would be collecting it on a certain date, which turned out to be incorrect.
I can see Mr T has discussed several options about what might have happened to the car, 
but ultimately, nothing further happened to it. Im not able to make an award for the 
possibility of potential loss which didnt then materialise. But the incorrect information he was 
given forms part of my consideration.
Claims service
Taking everything into account I think esure did provide some bad advice and poor service 
to Mr T during his claim. It corrected those errors quickly, as with the repairer, and over a 
longer time with the excess. 
Ive thought what Mr T has said about the impact of the claims service on him, and this 
services guidelines on compensation. 
Its inevitable that in any insurance claim theres some disruption to normal life and I can see 
Mr T found the damage to his car shocking. But esures service meant his car was repaired 
and he had a car provided to him for an important trip. I do appreciate Mr Ts stress was 
significant, and I can see that his claims experience with esure was problematic, but I cant 
fairly say esure caused all of his stress.
esure apologised and paid Mr T £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I 
think this amount is fair and in-line with this services guidelines and Im not going to ask 
esure to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman