DRN-4435357
The complaint
Mr A has complained that esure Insurance Limited declined to meet a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
In summary Mr A made a claim for storm damage to his roof  his evidence is that it was 
caused by storm Eunice. esure believes the damage has been caused by wear and tear and 
poor workmanship and for this reason declined the claim.
Mr A complained here. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He 
concluded that the claim should be admitted and that Mr A should be paid £500 in 
compensation.
esure didnt agree. Mr A did but requested greater compensation. As no agreement was 
been reached the matter was passed to me to determine. I issued a provisional decision on 
18 October 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
It is not disputed that storm Eunice occurred around the date that the damage to Mr 
As roof became apparent. Mr A has provided evidence from a senior technical 
advisor who writes Wind uplifts and the vortexs caused are largest at verges and 
ridges. His evidence is that the damage claimed for is consistent with damage a 
storm typically causes.
The dispute here is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of damage. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence in order to determine this issue. 
It is for Mr A to prove his claim and in order to do so he has submitted some 
evidence that the damage was caused by the storm. This includes reports from three 
contractors  tilers, roofers and builders. Importantly Mr A says that a new roof was 
erected in 2020. 
esures contractor inspected the roof and confirmed that it is in very good order but 
with a number of slipped cut tiles to the pediment valley and lifted ridge tiles and 
flaking sand and cement pointing to the verges. They reported that the pointing to the 
verges is flaking and very poor and suspected that the pointing was carried out over 
old pointing. They felt that the ridge tiles had been re-pointed at some stage but 
seemed unlikely that they had been lifted and re-set in a bed of sand and cement. 
They could not see any reason for the slipped valley tiles and assumed poor 
workmanship and therefore something not covered by his Mr As policy. 
As the surveyors evidence was at odds with Mr As testimony that a new roof had 
been fitted in 2020 I asked for a receipted invoice and/or specification of the works 
that had been carried out. Mr A said that he didnt get the work done in the usual way 
but that the contractor, Ill call R, did the work under a guarantee claim. 
I havent disregarded the evidence that Mr A has submitted. However I cant be 
satisfied on the evidence to hand what, if any, damage was caused by storm. To 
resolve this dispute Im minded to require esure to instruct an independent surveyor 
to provide a comprehensive report as to the cause and extent of damage to Mr As 
roof. esure should share the report with Mr A. If the report shows any damage was 
caused by storm or is otherwise covered by his policy, esure should reconsider Mr 
As claim in line with his policy terms.
In order that Mr A can be satisfied that the surveyor is independent esure should 
provide him with the details of three surveyors. He can choose one of the three and 
esure should instruct the one he selects. Mr A can provide evidence to the surveyor if 
he wishes.
Mr As policy explains that if loss or damage is caused as a result of circumstances 
listed in his policy, esure can choose to pay the cost of work carried out to repair the 
buildings or arrange for the repair. esure should therefore tell Mr A, in the event that 
the report evidences storm damage by storm Eunice, how it proposes to settle his 
claim.
Although Mr A has requested compensation, as Im unable to determine on the 
evidence to hand whether the damage is covered by his policy, or the extent to which 
it is, Im not minded to require esure to make any payment to Mr A at this stage.
I was minded to require esure Insurance Limited to: 
Provide Mr A with the details of three independent surveyors and ask him to select 
one.
Instruct the independent surveyor selected by Mr A to provide a report following a 
roof inspection as to the cause of the damage to Mr As roof. 
Share the report with Mr A.
If the report indicates that damage was caused by storm Eunice, esure should tell Mr 
A how it proposes to settle his claim.
I told both parties I would look at any more comments and evidence I received, but unless 
that information changed my mind my final decision was likely to be along the lines of my 
provisional decision.
esure replied that Mr A had already been offered this option in January, and contractors 
were sent out who hadnt been before. They maintained that the damage wasnt storm 
damage.
Mr A felt that the burden of proof had been incorrectly applied in his case. He said that the 
whole basis for the decision was therefore incorrect and his claim should automatically be 
upheld. He reiterated that he had provided evidence that he felt irrefutably confirmed his roof 
had been damaged by storm.
Mr A also confirmed that he had been offered a choice of three surveyors previously by esure. But he said that the surveyors offered were neither independent nor impartial as they 
were agents of esure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having carefully considered the representations of both parties, Im not 
persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here.
Mr A needs to show that his claim is for an event insured by his policy. He says his roof was 
damaged by storm. He has provided some evidence to support his claim. In turn esure relies 
on an exclusion  it says that the damage is the result of poor workmanship and/or wear and 
tear and is not storm related damage. It is for esure to prove the exclusion, and it has sent a 
surveyor and a repair contractor to report on Mr As roof, those reports support esures 
position.
However Im persuaded esures position conflicts to some extent with Mr As evidence. In 
particular Mr A says that his roof was new in 2020. Although Mr A hasnt been able to supply 
evidence of the extent of work done in 2020. It is accepted that his roof appears to be 
otherwise in good condition.
Given the conflict of evidence here I remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable resolution 
to this matter would be for an independent surveyor to comprehensively report as to the 
cause of damage to Mr As roof. Should Mr A accept this decision, I would hope he can be 
provided with the relevant details within a couple of weeks, so that the surveyor can be 
instructed expediently.
Putting things right
Provide Mr A with the details of three independent surveyors and ask him to select 
one.
Instruct the independent surveyor selected by Mr A to provide a report following a 
roof inspection as to the cause of the damage to Mr As roof. 
Share the report with Mr A.
If the report indicates that damage was caused by storm Eunice, esure should tell Mr 
A how it proposes to settle his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure to put things right as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman