DRN-3765561
The complaint
Mr A complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) decision to block 
and subsequently close his accounts and withhold his money. Mr A is also unhappy with the 
customer service he received from M&S. 
Mr A wants M&S to pay his financial losses, as well as compensation.
What happened
Around March 2021, M&S restricted Mr As account while they carried out a review  and in 
April 2021, made the decision to close it without notice. Mr As money was withheld from him 
and he says M&S didnt ask him to prove his entitlement to the money in his account.
Mr A says he spent a lot of time tyring to sort things out and doesnt think M&S should have 
reported him to the Police before asking him questions directly. Mr A is aware the funds 
were subject to a freezing order but thinks M&S should have released the money to him 
sooner than they did. 
M&S released the money held in the current account, and the credit from Mr As credit card 
account, to Mr A in July 2022. M&S say they released the money as soon as they received 
confirmation the court order had been set aside. 
As part of their own complaint process, M&S paid Mr A a total of £150 compensation.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt ask M&S to do anything differently. He explained 
M&S were entitled to block the account and was satisfied they had legitimate reasons to 
close the account without giving Mr A notice. Our investigator also explained that he thought 
M&S returned the money to Mr A at the earliest opportunity  which was when they were 
notified the court order had been lifted. And he didnt think M&S needed to pay additional 
money to Mr A following their £150 compensation payment.
Mr A remained unhappy and didnt think our investigator considered everything in full. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr A and 
M&S have said before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on 
M&Ss actions in regard to both Mr As current account and credit card.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information M&S 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Account block and closure
M&S are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
it appears Mr As account flagged for review due to a large payment coming into the 
account, and a request from Mr A to transfer it out. I appreciate why Mr A may have found 
this inconvenient, but M&S must ensure they keep their due diligence checks updated at all 
times. 
Im aware M&S sent a letter to Mr A to let him know their decision to close his current 
account and credit card account. Ive also listened to a phone call between Mr A and M&S 
which took place around 12 April 2021 where the M&S advisor confirmed both accounts 
(current account and credit card) would be closed but they couldnt give him any timescales 
on when he would receive the money back or the reasons for the closure. 
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr A decided to stop banking with M&S, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. However, M&S can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if 
its in the terms and conditions of the account. M&S have relied on the terms and conditions 
when closing Mr As account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account 
immediately  or give notice of around 60 days. Ive considered the full circumstances of this 
complaint and I agree M&S were entitled to close the account without notice.
Withholding the funds
I appreciate Mr A thinks it was M&S who reported him to the Police, however I haven't been 
provided with any evidence from either party to confirm if this was the case. Regardless, I 
don't think it makes an overall difference. I say that because once a freezing order was 
granted, M&S had a duty to act on it - and therefore they werent able to release the money 
or give Mr A access to his accounts. I recognise Mr A thinks M&S should have asked him 
questions about the money in his account - and he thinks this would have avoided the 
freezing order altogether, but M&S are legally obligated to comply with such orders and 
therefore its not always appropriate for them to engage in their own investigation. 
I'm satisfied that's what's happened here, and while I recognise the distress it caused Mr A I 
can't fairly say M&S acted inappropriately. 
I appreciate Mr A was without his money for a prolonged period of time, but Ive seen 
evidence to show that M&S didnt became aware until 19 July 2022 the freezing order was 
lifted. They gave Mr A access to the money from his current account on 22 July 2022, and 
the credit from his credit card account on 25 July 2022. I dont therefore consider M&S 
caused any delays in releasing the money.
Compensation and financial loss
M&S paid Mr A a total of £150 compensation to recognise some of the customer service issues throughout the process. I am satisfied this amount fairly reflects the inconvenience 
caused to Mr A for the customer service issues, and I dont consider they should pay 
anything further. 
Im also aware Mr A thinks M&S should compensate him for the currency exchange rate 
difference, loss of income relating to a purchase he would have made due to a purchase, 
and costs to cover inflation for the time his money was withheld. I appreciate how strongly 
Mr A feels about this, but in order for me to ask M&S to pay any of these additional costs, Id 
need to be satisfied they did something wrong. And having carefully considered everything, I 
dont think they did. So, I wont be asking M&S to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman