DRN-2739402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance (Lloyds) has
handled a claim theyre made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 26 March 2021, an extract of which is 
copied below.
 Mr G has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him
throughout. The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Im only
providing a summary here.
In March 2019 Mr G contacted Lloyds to report an escape of water under his
living room radiator and to make a claim on his policy
After some initial confusion the remedial work was started in May 2019 with the
floor dug up and a pipe replaced
During the drying process Mr G says there was an intense chemical smell and
this made him and his family feel unwell
After some discussion about how quickly Lloyds could get someone to
investigate, it sent an agent to the property the same day and agreed alternative
accommodation should be provided
While this was arranged the same day, Mr G says it didnt happen smoothly and
he was left uncertain about where he was to stay and had to chase up Lloyds to
make sure the arrangements were completed
Mr G was unhappy the rooms he was allocated werent on the same floor as he
had children
There were then further problems with the accommodation arrangements for
subsequent nights resulting in uncertainty where they would sleep
At the end of May, Mr G was able to return to the property but his furniture wasnt
returned until July and it was damaged and had to be replaced by Lloyds
Mr G says the way Lloyds handled the claim was stressful and being out of the
house caused him and his family considerable inconvenience
Mrs Gs medical condition was made worse by being without proper furniture and
his children were studying for important exams while stuck in a car waiting for
accommodation to be arranged
Lloyds apologised for some things it said it got wrong and paid Mr G £350 in
compensation together with a further £60 to cover his mobile phone bill
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and said Lloyds
should pay Mr G a total £750 for the trouble and upset it caused and £60 for the 
mobile phone bill
Lloyds thought this was too much and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has detailed a number of things he says Lloyds got wrong. Mr role as an ombudsman 
is to focus on the crux of the complaint and so Ill only comment on those things I consider 
relevant to the decision I need to make.
The key element to this complaint is what Lloyds should pay Mr G to reflect the trouble and 
upset he says its put him too. I have considered the timeline of events and the impact of the 
various incidents in the round in order to reach a figure I consider fair and reasonable in the 
entirety of the circumstances.
The chemical smell
Lloyds has explained the chemical smell seems to have been as a consequence of the 
drying out process and it says it was unusual for the smell to be as intense as it was. I dont 
think Lloyds could have predicted this was going to happen but I understand why it would 
have been unpleasant and worrying for Mr G and his family.
Lloyds did arrange an inspection and agreed to alternative accommodation the same day but 
I acknowledge Mr G had to push for this to happen.
The alternative accommodation issues
The late arrangement of the first and subsequent hotel, then problems with the rooms and 
being told they had to leave would have added to an already stressful situation, particularly 
as their children were preparing for important exams at the time.
Lloyds did resolve these problems in a reasonable timescale but not before Mr G had to 
chase things up to ensure it happened and I can see how this would have made things more 
stressful.
The return of the furniture
Mr G says their sofas were returned from storage damaged. While Lloyds did agree to cover 
the cost of replacements  which sounds fair in the circumstances  I understand why this 
would be a further inconvenience for Mr G.
Customer service
Lloyds acknowledged it caused confusion with its initial approach to the track and trace 
element of the claim, it apologised and paid Mr G £25 by way of an apology.
I acknowledge there were also a number of other customer service failings such as the 
incorrect advice from the original contractor which was subsequently contradicted by the 
following contractor and the snagging issues that had to be dealt with. These issues all 
resulted in the claim taking longer than it needed to.
I have considered all of these and kept them in mind when reaching my decision.
Overall
I can understand why the impact on Mr and Mrs G has been perhaps greater given their 
personal circumstances - which included Mrs Gs medical condition and teenage children 
studying for important exams while the claim was ongoing.But I also have to balance this with the fact any problem with a property, and subsequent 
insurance claim, by its very nature will be inconvenient and stressful for the people involved. 
And I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that, just the things it got wrong or should have done 
better.
For the reasons Ive explained, I do think Lloyds could have handled the things better though 
and I dont think the £350 plus £60 its already paid Mr and Mrs G is enough to fairly reflect 
the inconvenience in their particular circumstances. But equally I dont think the £750 plus 
£60 recommended by our investigator is right either. 
Ive thought very carefully about this complaint and the impact of Lloyds actions on Mr and 
Mrs G. Having done so, Ive concluded that Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £500 
for the trouble and upset it caused them plus the £60 to cover mobile phone costs. It should 
deduct whatever it has already paid them from this figure. I realise this is likely to be less 
than Mr and Mrs G expect and more than Lloyds think is right, but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Lloyds didnt provide any additional comments following my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs 
G disagreed with what I said and highlighted the phone call theyd had with Lloyds and 
reiterated the extent of the smell at the property and Lloyds initial timescale for getting 
someone to attend to investigate together with the impact this had on them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied I have the evidence I need to reach a decision. 
I note what Mr and Mrs G say about the phone call they had with Lloyds. Theyve placed a 
lot of emphasis on this call and on Lloyds initial timescale to get someone to attend the 
property to investigate the smell. I also acknowledge Mrs G says these things had a 
significant emotional impact on her and I have taken account of this. 
But I also have to keep in mind that, despite its original timescales, Lloyds did still arrange 
for one of its agents to visit the property the same day. The agent confirmed the extent of the 
smell and Lloyds arranged alternative accommodation, and while this didnt happen 
completely smoothly, it was also still done the same day.
When reaching my decision about the way Lloyds should settle this complaint, I have taken 
into account these things and everything else Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds have said. 
Considering the complaint in its entirety, I remain satisfied the settlement I proposed in my 
provisional decision is a fair and reasonable way for Lloyds to settle things.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G £500 for the trouble and upset it caused and £60 to cover 
the mobile phone costs, deducting what its already paid them from these figures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G:
£500 for the trouble and upset it caused them£60 for their mobile phone costs
deducting anything its paid them already from these figures.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman