DRN-3672838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
My decision is about a business with a slightly different name than the business our 
investigator referred to (which was the administrator of the policy). AWP is the insurer of the 
policy and the correct business for my decision to be about. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P booked a trip abroad and were due to travel from 23 March 2020 to 8 April 
2020. They bought single trip travel insurance with their trip from a travel agent. AWP was 
the insurer.
The trip was cancelled following UK Government advice and the country abroad closing its 
borders to UK travellers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs P received a full refund 
of the cost of the trip from the travel provider. Mr P asked the travel agent to cancel the 
travel insurance as he and Mrs P didnt need it but they were told to wait as they might be 
able to use the policy for another trip later in the year. That wasnt possible so in April 2021 
Mr P again asked the travel agent to refund the cost of the policy. Mr P told us the request 
for refund was refused and a final response letter was issued quoting from the policy that no 
refund was due if the policy was cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. They wanted the policy premium refunded. Sadly during our 
investigation Mr P passed away. 
We asked AWP for its busines file and the policy documents. AWP told us it hadnt been 
able to look at the complaint and it would be in touch. But we, nor Mrs P, havent heard from 
AWP with any substantive response despite us chasing it several times for the information.
Our investigator explained that as we hadnt received the information from AWP his 
investigation was based on the information and testimony from Mr P before he passed away 
and Mrs P. As Mr P dealt with the insurance and complaint Mrs P had very little information. 
Based on the information he had our investigator thought AWP acted unfairly in not 
refunding any of the policy premium. He recommended it would be fair for AWP to provide 
Mrs P and the estate of Mr P with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single 
trip travel insurance policy from the date the holiday was cancelled. Our investigator said 
AWP could contact the travel agent and/or the broker to confirm the dates and information it 
needed to calculate the refund if AWP didnt have the information.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation so the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP hasnt sent us its file, despite our requests, and Mrs P doesnt have the documents to 
send to us. Im satisfied that weve given AWP enough time to send the information to us 
and that its reasonable for me to now make a decision on the information I have.
Recently one of AWPs agents sent us the relevant policy which says:
(name of travel agent) and (name of insurance broker) act as agents for AWP P&C 
SA for the receipt of customer money and handling premium refunds.  
So while Mr P spoke to the travel agent about the return of the policy premium the travel 
agent was acting as AWPs agent and AWP is the correct business for my decision.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs P held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. This is because AWP covered the risk of them cancelling the 
upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of the policy recently sent to us say AWP will:
Only refund or transfer your premium if you decide that the policy does not meet 
your needs and you have contacted us within 14 days from the date you receive your 
policy and insurance confirmation.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs P were entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with AWP.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs Ps planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask AWP to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
Mr and Mrs P werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by AWP also covered 
Mr and Mrs P for cancellation cover from the policy start date. So, the premium Mr and 
Mrs P paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a number of 
listed events insured under the policy. 
AWP was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs P making a successful claim on the policy from the 
policy start date until their holiday was cancelled. Its a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time 
 the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation 
rights were, it isnt unfair for AWP to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered 
during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, AWP didnt bear any risk 
under Mr and Mrs Ps insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled due to 
Covid-19 and AWP hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. AWP was therefore no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the 
holiday was no longer going ahead, AWP was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim 
being made while Mr and Mrs P were travelling abroad.   
Putting things right
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to provide Mrs P and the estate of 
Mr P with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance 
policy from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay the pro-rata refund of the premium 
they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy from the date the holiday was cancelled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman