DRN-4075497
The complaint
Mr B complained that a claim related to his dog was unfairly declined by Atlas Insurance 
PCC Limited (Atlas) under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim to Atlas to recover the costs for an operation on his dog for 
brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome (BOAS).
On validating the claim, Atlas decided to decline it. Atlas said, the surgery and treatment for 
this condition is not covered as the clinical signs of moderate to marked narrow nares due to 
brachycephalic conformation was noted in the clinical history on the 15th July 2019 and is not 
a direct result of an accidental injury. It said, on review of [your dogs] policy, as the 
inception date was the 12th July 2019, this started with a 14- day waiting period on illnesses 
from the commencement date. Any illness which occurred or showed any clinical signs 
within this time would not be covered on your policy.
Mr B thought it was unfair to decline the claim. His vet who carried out the surgery provided 
a detailed testimony to explain why. The vet said there was no history or clinical signs of 
BOAS noted in the dogs examination which was carried out during the waiting period.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think Atlas had fairly applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy, so he thought it should re-consider the claim. He didnt 
think there was evidence the dog had a pre-existing condition, so he didnt think Atlas was 
fair in applying the exclusion clause. Atlas disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Atlas declined the claim as it said the veterinary examination carried out on the dog during 
the waiting period presented signs that were more than you would associate with any 
normal breed the same as Mr Bs dog. Atlas said the observations noted were an early sign 
of BOAS. Following on, Atlas applied the following exclusion to decline the claim: 1.4.1 
costs resulting from an Illness or Injury that first showed Clinical Signs prior to the initial 
Cover Start Date or from an Illness that first showed Clinical Signs within the Waiting 
Period.
Atlas has explained why the observations noted in the waiting period were an early sign of 
BOAS. So, if there was no other evidence then Id tend to say it had acted fairly. However, 
the vet that carried out the surgery has provided a detailed commentary as to why she 
disagrees with Atlas viewpoint.
The vet that carried out the surgery said the observations noted during the waiting period 
were a description of [the dogs] anatomy and not an indication that [the dog] was suffering 
from any clinical signs associated with this at the time. The vet said no clinical signs were 
noted and no clinical signs were noted until 2022. The vet explained that the observation 
made of the dog was no different to many other dogs of that breed. However, she did 
comment that 70% of dogs with a similar anatomy did go on to develop BOAS. 
Atlas said, the policy wording which is relevant in this case is: Clinical Signs means 
changes in Your Pets normal healthy state, condition, appearance, its bodily functions, or 
behaviour. The marked narrow nares noted by the vet on 15th July 2019 during the waiting 
period are undoubtedly a Clinical Sign and not a normal, healthy state, condition [or] 
bodily function.
I have considered these responses and further Atlas submission around the wider impact 
this could have on the available insurance for dogs of this breed. However, I dont think Atlas 
has shown with certainty that the dog had symptoms in the waiting period which were 
consistent with the condition it was later treated for. Mr B has provided a thorough 
submission from the vet who carried out the surgery explaining why Atlas viewpoint is 
flawed.
I find the expert view from the vet to be persuasive. I dont think the notes of the examination 
in the waiting period indicate a future condition was certain. I think it was more an 
observation which is common with that breed of dog. Atlas hasnt provided evidence to show 
the examiner meant any different, so I dont think it would be fair for me to make this 
assumption.
I think if Atlas wanted to exclude this type of operation for the reasoning given, then I think it 
needs to be clearer in its terms and conditions that it excludes cover for this type of 
operation or at least where certain physical observations are observed. Therefore, I uphold 
this complaint and I require Atlas to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlas Insurance PCC Limited to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman