DRN-2948177
Complaint
Ms H has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly continued 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our investigators looked at Ms Hs complaint and thought NatWest should have 
realised Ms Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by June 2015 and so it needed 
to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Hs overdraft from this point. 
NatWest didnt respond and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think NatWest acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from June 2015. By this point, it 
was evident Ms H was in financial difficulty. A cursory look at her statements leading up to 
this period shows that the account hadnt seen a credit balance for an extended period of 
time. And the credits going into the account didnt suggest that the facility could be repaid 
within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by June 2015 NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Ms H with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that NatWest should have realised that Ms H was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered her assistance. As NatWest didnt react to Ms Hs account usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Ms H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im intending to say that Ms H lost out because of what NatWest 
did wrong and that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Ms H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Hs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from June 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Ms H to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Hs 
credit file, it should backdate this to June 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman