DRN-1307118
 
The complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr A bought the policy in 2005 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and I've set out my reasons below:
Mr A says he wouldn't have willingly bought the PPI. He's told me about some 
previous financial difficulties he'd had, and says he would've only bought the PPI if he 
was put under pressure to do so because he was told it would improve his chances 
of getting credit. I've noted everything Mr A has said. The difficulty I have is that I 
can't be sure what was discussed between Mr A and Halifax when the credit card 
and PPI were taken out. But I've seen the credit card application form that was 
completed at the time. Halifax has also provided a copy of a 'Demands and 
Needs' statement that was completed for Mr A. The document says: '...the 
product recommended is suitable because it will cover you should your income stop 
suddenly. You advised that you do not have existing cover that you wish to 
use.' Following the assessment, it seems the Halifax adviser filled in the application 
form on a computer and completed the relevant box to show that Mr A wanted PPI. 
There is nothing on any of the documents I've seen to suggest that taking the PPI 
was a condition of getting the credit card. So without anything else to support what 
Mr A has told me, I don't think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didn't make 
him aware he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr A, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  Mr A says he could've 
relied on friends and family to help him if he couldn't work, but having the policy in 
place would've meant he didn't have to do so. I think the PPI would've provided a 
useful benefit to Mr A if something went wrong.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr A would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman