DRN-3358680
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr W saw a private advert for a van on a well-known online marketplace. On                       
29 October 2020, he says he contacted the seller via telephone and had a long conversation 
with them about the vehicle. He was told that the seller had put the van up for sale because 
they wanted to upgrade, and there had been a lot of interest in it. The seller gave Mr W their 
contact and bank account details, and they said that the first person to send a deposit  
which would be fully refundable in the event the buyer was unhappy with the vehicle upon 
inspection  would secure the van. When Mr W asked if the seller would accept payment 
through the online marketplace, they said theyd experienced issues with this payment 
method in the past and would prefer a bank transfer.
Mr W says he verified the information the seller had provided by running a HPI check on the 
vehicle, checking the sellers address on an internet map service, and considering the 
vehicle servicing information available to him. Everything he had been told checked out, so 
he sent the seller a £3,000 deposit via faster payment to secure the van.
A viewing was arranged for 31 October 2020 at the sellers residential address. When Mr W 
arrived at the address, it became obvious that hed been scammed, and he reported the 
matter to Monzo. Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day, but no funds were 
recovered from the scammers account and Monzo didnt agree to reimburse Mr W. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Monzo should reimburse 50% of Mr Ws loss under the 
provisions of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code).
Monzo didnt agree, so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the CRM Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr W has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that two of the exceptions apply in this 
case. It says that Mr W ignored an effective warning it gave during the payment journey and 
he made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he 
was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business he was transacting with was legitimate.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.
Ive considered the warning Monzo says it gave Mr W during the payment journey and 
I appreciate that it tried to provide an effective warning. But overall, Im not satisfied it can 
reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. I dont 
think the warning was impactful or specific enough.
It's clear to me that Monzos warning attempts to prevent purchase scams, but I dont think 
the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of purchase scam obvious 
to its customers. The warning is bright red and says Stop, dont pay. Its very likely this is a 
scam.  But then it just advises that bank transfers arranged online or over social media are 
at a higher risk of fraud and that bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card 
payments so Pay by card if you can. It doesnt cover the common features of vehicle 
scams or really bring to life what the type of scam Mr W fell victim to looks like. And Im not 
satisfied that it explains in sufficient detail what a customer can do to protect themselves 
against this type of scam. Overall, Im not persuaded that a reasonable person in Mr Ws 
position would fully understand the scam risk from the warning Monzo gave. I think that a 
straightforward explanation of how these scams work would likely have caused Mr W, and 
any other reasonable person, some concern and had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
Ive gone on to think about whether Mr W had a reasonable basis for belief. Ive considered 
what steps he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it 
was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.
Ive seen evidence which suggests that the seller had priced the van at around £10,000 less 
than the market value for vehicles of this type. The advert for the van says it is a fairly new 
vehicle with relatively low mileage and that its in immaculate condition, with a full-service 
history. Considering everything, I think the price of the van was too good to be true. And the 
seller was requesting almost half of the full purchase price as a deposit. Overall, I wouldve 
expected Mr W, or anyone else to be put on guard.
Mr W has said he carried out some checks before paying the deposit  he ran a HPI check 
on the vehicle, looked at the address the seller had given him on an internet map service, 
and checked the vehicle servicing information to make sure the vans mileage was correct. 
But he didnt carry out any substantial checks on the seller, or make sure the van belonged to them. Its difficult for me to understand why he didnt take such steps as it seems that he 
appreciated there was a risk to the transaction. Hes said he asked if he could pay via the 
marketplace (presumably because this is a more secure method of payment) but was put off 
by the seller. And Ive seen text messages between Mr W and the seller in which he asks to 
see the vehicle logbook (which would prove ownership of the van) after he paid the deposit  
he said he wanted to see it before completing the purchase. The logbook was not received 
prior to Mr W discovering hed been scammed.
Ultimately, Mr W went ahead with paying the deposit despite the obvious red flag of the price 
of the van being too good to be true and the deposit being high, and his apparent 
reservations and knowledge that there were further documents he could look at to protect 
himself in the transaction. I appreciate that the seller applied some pressure by telling him 
thered been a lot of interest in the van and letting him know that a deposit would secure it 
until he could inspect it. Perhaps Mr W was keen to secure the vehicle in the circumstances 
and was willing to take the risk involved in sending payment to the seller. But overall, I cant 
reasonably conclude that he had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion.
Overall, because Monzo failed to provide Mr W with an effective warning and that failure is 
likely to have had a material effect on preventing the scam, but Mr W also lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payment, Monzo should refund 50% of Mr Ws loss 
under the provisions of the CRM Code.
Considering the value of the payment, I also think that Monzo should have been alerted to 
the possibility that Mr W was at risk of financial harm and it ought reasonably to have done 
more to prevent this scam  by asking Mr W some questions about the payment and 
adequately explaining the risk to him. Had it done so, I think its likely that Mr Ws     
decision-making wouldve been affected, and he wouldve taken steps to protect himself 
from fraud. If he had, I think the scam wouldve unfolded and he wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the payment. The relevance of this finding is that Monzo ought to have prevented the 
loss, rather than just reimbursed Mr W under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that 
Monzo should pay Mr W interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to 
refund Mr W under the CRM Code. I still think that Mr W should bear 50% of his loss though, 
because Im persuaded that he ought to have done more to protect himself from financial 
harm.
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo took reasonable steps to recover Mr Ws funds, and 
I think it did. It contacted the receiving bank on the same day as Mr W reported the scam to 
it and Im not persuaded that it couldve taken any further action that wouldve led to the 
recovery of Mr Ws funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse 50% of Mr Ws loss within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman