The complaint
Mr S complains about Financial Claims Made Simple Ltd (trading as Reclaim PPI) sharing 
his data with another customer. He doesn't think its offer of compensation is enough to put 
things right. 
What happened
Reclaim PPI informed Mr S that his full name, address, card number and policy number 
were sent to another customer by mistake. It apologised and told him it had taken action to 
ensure it didnt happen again. It said the case had been recorded on its data breach log in 
accordance with regulatory guidelines. 
Mr S raised a complaint with Reclaim PPI. He was annoyed this had happened. He felt hed 
been placed at a greater risk of becoming a victim of scams. He also wasnt comfortable with 
Reclaim PPI holding his details anymore.
Reclaim PPI said it became aware it had breached data protection legislation when the other 
customer had let it know theyd received a letter with Mr Ss details.  It apologised for sharing 
Mr Ss personal information and offered him £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He was particularly 
concerned about fraudsters applying for credit in his name.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought the £75 Reclaim PPI had offered Mr S was fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hed experienced. She said she couldnt ask Reclaim PPI to erase Mr Ss 
data from its systems while he had an ongoing payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. 
But Reclaim PPI said it would do so once Mr Ss PPI claim was concluded. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think £75 was enough to 
compensate him for the stress, trauma and risk Reclaim PPI has put him under. So, Mr Ss 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. I'll explain 
why.
Reclaim PPI has accepted it made an error by inadvertently sharing Mr Ss data with another 
customer. So, what I need to decide is if Reclaim PPIs offer of compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
DRN-1924611Our role isn't to fine or punish businesses so I can only consider the impact Reclaim PPIs 
mistake has had on Mr S.
I havent seen or been told anything that suggests the data Reclaim PPI shared has been 
used for fraudulent purposes or that there has been any other sort of financial impact on    
Mr S. So I dont think Reclaim PPI needs to compensate Mr S for any financial loss.
I dont doubt that Mr S is generally worried about credit being taken out in his name because 
of the information Reclaim PPI shared. But I think its unlikely the other customer would have 
let Reclaim PPI know theyd received information relating to Mr S, if they intended to use this 
for fraudulent purposes. And I hope that will provide Mr S with some reassurance regarding 
the level of risk. 
Even so, theres no doubt Mr S has experienced some distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the data breach. He says he has to regularly check to ensure nobody has taken out 
credit in his name. And I can understand why he feels the need to do so. 
But having considered everything, I think the £75 Reclaim PPI has offered is enough to 
compensate Mr S for the impact its actions have had on Mr S. 
My final decision
Financial Claims Made Simple Ltd has already made an offer to pay Mr S £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Financial Claims Made Simple Ltd should pay Mr S £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman