DRN-1597832
 
The complaint
Miss T complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss T asked Santander to raise a chargeback for a cosmetic procedure she says she didn't 
receive. She says she paid £750 for three visits to a company I will call B. Miss T says she 
attended the first appointment but, following a dispute, B cancelled the following 
appointments. She says Santander raised a dispute and asked her for further information but 
had already declined the chargeback. Miss T says she wasn't given an opportunity to 
dispute what B said which she says was incorrect.
Santander says it raised a chargeback for £350 and pursued the chargeback to pre-
arbitration. But was given information from B that said Miss T had received the first treatment 
and hadn't paid for the following appointments. It says it hadn't made a mistake and was 
entitled to debit Miss T's account with the money it had credited her account with.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it, and thought based on the 
evidence she provided, the price was £250 per appointment. The investigator thought Miss T 
had received treatment on one appointment and so Santander ought to have perused the 
chargeback following pre-arbitration. The investigator recommended Santander pay £500 for 
the two appointments that she didn't receive.
Santander doesn't accept that view and says the treatment was for £750 per visit and B was 
entitled to cancel the contract due to Miss T's conduct.
I asked for sides for further information and for Santander to explain why it stopped the 
chargeback at pre-arbitration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I also make it clear to both sides I have read carefully all the 
information that has been supplied and have come to the overall view that this was a 
chargeback that should not have stopped at pre-arbitration.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by the card providers with no guarantee 
that any claim will be successful. The rules are set by the card providers and not as in this 
case Santander. So it would not be Santander's decision on the merits of a chargeback. We 
would normally expect a business to raise a chargeback where there are reasonable 
grounds to do so.
There is no dispute that Santander did raise a chargeback for £350. I don't think it clear why 
it was for that amount and not £500 which I think is the amount in dispute. But I think the 
important point is that Santander did raise the chargeback as we would expect in these circumstances where there is a clear dispute. I have looked at Santander's records and can 
see that Santander took the view that Miss T's complaint had merit and that it thought she 
was entitled to a full refund. Those records also say that"unless the money is refunded it will 
go to arbitration". So I'm satisfied that Santander must have concluded the complaint not 
only had merit but was prepared to go to arbitration and let the card provider make a 
decision on the complaint merits.
I appreciate B provided evidence to Santander and disputed the chargeback merits. I can 
also see that Santander wrote to Miss T on 8 December 2019 asking her for further 
information in the light of B's response. But on 9 December 2019 Santander told Miss T that 
based on the evidence from B it was not proceeding with the chargeback. So I think it likely 
that Santander had decided not to proceed with the chargeback regardless of any 
information Miss T was going to be able to provide and I think it unlikely that it would have 
received the additional information by the time it sent the letter on 9 December 2019.
I don't think it matters which side was right or wrong about the disputed cost of treatment. I 
think it likely based on the evidence I have seen that the cost of treatment was £250 per visit 
but I don't need to decide on that point. I'm satisfied the key issue here is that there was a 
dispute and that Santander agreed with Miss T that her complaint had merit. So in those 
circumstances I would have expected Santander to take the chargeback to arbitration as it 
said it would. I don't think Santander has explained why it stopped the chargeback at pre-
arbitration and I think the evidence it received from B was clearly disputed by Miss T and 
didn't provide any support for a finding that the chargeback was without merit with no 
reasonable prospect of success.
Overall I find this chargeback ought to have been taken to arbitration and by not doing so 
Miss T has been treated unfairly and has lost the opportunity of the claim being found in her 
favour.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained I'm satisfied the fairest approach would be for Santander to 
pay £500 to Miss T which is the amount she paid for the two treatment days she says she 
didn't receive.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Miss T 
£500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman