DRN-3553596
The complaint
Mr C says the approved repairer  appointed by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) took far too 
long to repair his van when he made a claim on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
After Mr C told UKI his van had been damaged in an accident, it instructed garage A to 
collect it on 19 May 2021 - but the van wasnt picked up for a week. When Mr C queried 
progress later on, he was told the work on it would start on 3 June 2021. After a further 
week, he was told more stripping of the van had to be done and that parts were on order. He  
became very concerned about how long the repairs were taking. Mr C thought the van 
should have been written-off, given the damage to it. And as he needed the van in order to 
work, he had to pay to hire a vehicle whilst it was off the road. 
When Mr C called UKI on 23 June 2021 for an update, it said the parts needed for the repair 
(including a part ordered on 11 June 2021) had arrived. The garages estimated completion 
date had been 30 June 2021  but its jig was needed to repair the van, and it said other 
vehicles had to use the jig first. So the vans engine wasnt removed until after 5 July 2021. 
The repair completion date was set back to 16 July 2021. After the work involving the jig was 
finished, that date was moved back to 30 July 2021, as painting and refitting had to be done. 
In the end, the car wasnt at the final (valeting) stage until 17 August 2021. 
  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He noted that UKI had agreed the 
garages contact with Mr C was lacking and had offered him £50 compensation. But it didnt 
accept that there had been undue delay with the repairs. It said there were unavoidable 
delays whilst the garage waited for parts  and that as it was dealing with multiple vehicles at 
the time, the jig was in demand. UKI said it wasnt unusual for completion dates to be set 
back, and that further damage to the van was found once repairs were started. 
  
The investigator thought UKI should pay Mr C a further £200 compensation  as well as 
reimbursing him around £1,400 for hire on the 27 days of avoidable delay hed identified. 
The investigator said the hire charges would have been lower had Mr C been able to book a 
vehicle monthly, not weekly. But poor contact from the garage and no certainty about the 
completion date had prevented him from doing that. UKI agreed to pay the extra 
compensation, but it didnt think it was reasonable for it to refund the hire charges. Instead, it  
proposed paying Mr C £10 per day for 27 days for the loss of use of his van. 
  
Mr C declined UKIs offer, so the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines:
I didnt think there was anything to show that UKIs engineer made the wrong 
decision in deciding not to write off the van
I noted the unexplained delay of a week in collecting the van for repairs, and I 
thought there was a further five-day period after that in which nothing was done by 
the garage. In addition, I thought half of the 14-day delay in getting the van onto the 
jig was probably avoidable had the garage planned its work efficiently. I thought that 
Mr Cs repairs should have been prioritised, given the previous delays and the fact 
that he needed the van in order to work. So I said UKI should compensate him by 
paying his hire costs (plus interest) for 19 days 
I also said UKI should pay Mr C a further £100 (£350 in total) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays and by the garages poor communication
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional decision. Both UKI and Mr C accepted it.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional findings, theres no reason to change them. So, 
for the reasons stated above, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr C 
£350 in total for distress and inconvenience and refund 19 days hire costs, plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr C a further £100 (£350 in total) for distress and inconvenience
Pay Mr Cs hire costs for 19 days, in line with the receipts he has provided 
Add interest to the payment refunding the hire costs, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, 
from the date of hire to the date of settlement 
If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman