DRN-3367418
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how AXA insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy. In addition, Mr and Mrs M feel AXA mis-sold the 
insurance policy to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have explained they booked a trip abroad. The booking included 
accommodation, internal travel and organised trips during their time abroad. Separately to 
this, Mr and Mrs M booked flights to their intended destination.
Having booked their holiday, Mr and Mrs M then looked to purchase travel insurance. Before 
completing their purchase, they called AXA, to ask about its gold level travel insurance 
policy. Theyve explained they asked whether, in light of the coronavirus, if their holiday was 
cancelled the policy would cover this. Or, if just their flights were cancelled, whether the 
policy would cover that too. Mr and Mrs M said they were told either loss would be covered, 
and so they purchased the policy.
The policy was purchased on 11 March 2020, covering the holiday, which started on 24 April 
2020, until the 14 May 2020, when the holiday was due to conclude. The premium paid for 
the cover was £193.54.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M werent able to go on holiday as intended. On 11 March 2020, 
the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Coronavirus a global pandemic. And shortly 
after, on 17 March 2020 the UK advised against all but essential travel abroad. This meant 
Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs M gained a refund for their flights. And the travel provider they booked other 
elements of their holiday through offered a partial refund. The travel provider said that it was 
able to refund £6,159, out of the £7,170 that had been paid to it. Meaning that Mr and Mrs M 
were left with a shortfall of £1,011.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs M raised a claim with AXA. It considered the claim but declined 
it. AXA said it wasnt able to provide settle the claim because the holiday Mr and Mrs M had 
booked was a packaged travel holiday  and this meant Mr and Mrs M were legally entitled 
to a full refund from the travel providers itself. So, the travel provider needed to return the 
additional £1,011 to Mr and Mrs M. AXA noted the policy only provided cover for 
irrecoverable losses, and as the money could be refunded to Mr and Mrs M from elsewhere, 
the policy didnt respond.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this and felt the policy had been mis-sold to them. They 
said they had contacted AXA to check they had cover under the policy and were mis-
advised. So, they felt a full refund of the premium they paid should be given to them.
AXA didnt agree. It reiterated that the claim wasnt covered under the policy. And it said 
Mr and Mrs M hadnt been mis-advised about the policy. It did however offer Mr and Mrs M a 
premium refund of £125.80  to recognise that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been able to travel. 
Mr and Mrs M remained in disagreement. They felt the full £193.54 should be refunded to 
them. Because Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
AXA had acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim  because the costs being claimed 
for were recoverable elsewhere, and the policy didnt cover this. Our investigator also didnt 
consider the policy was mis-sold. They felt, having listened to a recording of the call between 
AXA and Mr and Mrs M, that they had been provided with correct information.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They raised a number of points. In summary, they remained of 
the opinion that the policy had been mis-sold to them. And considered AXAs position unfair.
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel 
strongly about the matter. But Im satisfied that AXA has acted fairly. So, I dont require it to 
do anything more.
Id like to highlight that when arriving at my decision Ive considered all submissions from 
both parties. But in this decision, Ive only referred to that which is necessary to explain the 
reasoning for my decision.
Decline of claim
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr and Mrs M feel AXA didnt act in line with this. So, 
Ive considered their concerns. And, based on what Ive seen, I dont think AXA did anything 
wrong in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Looking at the policy Mr and Mrs M purchased, I can see there is cover for various incidents 
 such as the need to cancel a holiday. But, as is common with insurance policies of this 
nature, the losses incurred and claimed for need to be within the terms and conditions of that 
section of the policy, for the loss to be covered. So, if the losses dont fall within those terms 
and conditions, the policy doesnt cover it, and the claim wont be settled.
The cancellation terms under Mr and Mrs Ms policy do provide cover for cancellation for a 
trip where this is due to advice against all but essential travel from the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). And, it is accepted that Mr and Mrs Ms 
trip was cancelled for this reason.
But, the terms and conditions of this section go on to highlight losses due to this, are 
covered if they are irrecoverable elsewhere. This is common in travel insurance policies. So, 
for Mr and Mrs M to be successful in their claim under the cancellation section, it needed to 
be the case that a refund of their losses wasnt recoverable somewhere else.Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was a packaged holiday. And there are regulations in place that 
provide legal protection for those booking packaged holidays  The Package and Travel 
Regulations 2018. These regulations entitle Mr and Mrs M to a full refund of their holiday 
from the travel provider. And given this, their loss was recoverable elsewhere. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M were initially told by their travel provider that they couldnt 
gain a full refund from it. But, as above, the regulations say that a full refund is due. So, Im 
satisfied that AXA acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim, because the full loss was 
recoverable from the travel provider. AXA isnt accountable for any information the travel 
provider gave at first. And Im aware since Mr and Mrs M have referred back to their travel 
provider a full refund has been given. So, I dont find AXA acted unreasonably here.
Sale of the policy
Mr and Mrs M have said their policy was mis-sold to them. Theyve explained that when they 
contacted AXA it told them the situation would be covered. Mr and Mrs M have said they 
werent told the packaged holidays werent covered by the policy.
Its important to note that looking at Mr and Mrs Ms policy, it doesnt exclude cover for 
packaged travel holidays. So, I wouldnt have expected AXA to have said these werent 
covered. Packaged holidays are covered, for the various risks detailed in the policy. Rather, 
the reason AXA noted there wasnt cover for the packaged holiday here, is because the 
packaged travel regulations covered the situation Mr and Mrs M found themselves in  so 
the loss was recoverable elsewhere. 
Ive also listened to the conversation between Mr and Mrs M and AXA. And Im satisfied AXA 
didnt mislead Mr and Mrs M. The advisor explained that cover was provided, so long as the 
loss wasnt recoverable elsewhere. This was correct. So, I dont find it did anything wrong in 
terms of the sale of the policy.
Premium refund offered
AXA has offered Mr and Mrs M a premium refund of £125.80, to recognise that they werent 
able to use the majority of their cover. So, Ive thought about whether this was fair. And Im 
satisfied it was.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provided cover for pre-trip risks, and well as post-departure risks. Mr 
and Mrs M werent able to go on holiday, and so AXA would never have been covering post-
departure risks  the cover ceased to exist when the holiday was cancelled. AXA has offered 
a 65% refund of Mr and Mrs Ms premium, as it says this is the amount of the premium 
attributable to post-departure risks.
AXA has shown this material unevenness in the way its premiums are calculated. And, Im 
satisfied that in providing Mr and Mrs M with a 65% refund, it doesnt treat them differently or 
unfairly to other customers in similar circumstances. So, Im satisfied it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in providing this refund.
As detailed above, Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms policy wasnt mis-sold to them, and 
so I dont think any additional premium refund is due.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer of £125.80 is fair. 
And I understand AXA Insurance UK Plc already arranged for this to be returned to Mr and 
Mrs M. So, I dont require it to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman