DRN-4414902
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account, before 
deciding to reopen it.  Hed like compensation.
What happened
Mr J holds an account with NatWest. In July 2022 he received a payment of £1,000 in to the 
account. NatWest blocked the account and asked him to explain what the payment was for. 
Unhappy with the answer they wrote to him to tell him theyd be closing the account. His 
debit card was cancelled, and online access removed.
Unhappy with this Mr J complained. NatWest looked at the issue again and agreed to 
reinstate Mr Js account and issue him with a new debit card. But Mr J remained dissatisfied 
and referred his complaint to our service. He said he has lost out on a purchase he wanted 
to make, which was cheaper at the time. He felt he should be compensated as he was ill and 
vulnerable.
Our investigator thought the complaint should succeed. They said NatWest hadnt 
demonstrated it was fair for them to close the account in the first place. They suggested 
NatWest pay Mr J £100 compensation for the inconvenience.
NatWest accepted this as an outcome. However, Mr J disagreed. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its right to say that NatWest, like all financial businesses in the UK, have legal and 
regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to consumers. These obligations 
mean that sometimes they will need to review a consumers accounts and ask further 
questions about the way an account is being used. There is provision for this in the terms of 
Mr Js account.
Banks also have the right to decide they no longer wish to provide banking services to 
consumers  just as consumers have the right to close their bank account. This can 
generally be any reasonable reason, so long as they follow the terms of the account. In this 
case NatWest decided to close Mr Js account immediately. The terms say this can only be 
done is very specific circumstances. And Im not persuaded these circumstances apply here. 
So, Im satisfied that it was unreasonable for NatWest to close off Mr Js account in the 
manner they did.
Im pleased to see that NatWest reversed this decision. But I can appreciate the original 
closure will have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr J. So, I think its appropriate for 
NatWest to compensate him to reflect this.
Considering the impact, I can see the account with NatWest was little used before this  the 
only balance is the £1,000 paid in. Mr J has said he needed this money for food and bills  
but I cant see any payments for this nature on the account. Once the account was restored 
there werent any further transactions until January 2023, which does suggest to me this 
wasnt Mr Js main account. 
I also note Mr J has variously said the transfer was for a purchase and for an investment. 
Hes not given a clear indication of what the funds were to be used for.
But I accept he is a vulnerable individual, and NatWest should have taken more card before 
deciding to close his account. It was only closed for a short while, but its clear that this has 
been inconvenient to him.
On that basis Im satisfied an award of £100 fairly reflects both the inconvenience caused by 
the unreasonable closure of his account, and the time he was without his funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman