DRN-3097739
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the management of his pension fund by Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited. He considers it didnt take action to protect his capital or 
income, particularly during a period of market volatility. In effect, he considers it didnt 
manage his pension fund at all, despite being paid significant fees to do so.
What happened
Mr M has raised a number of concerns about his pension with Hargreaves Lansdown over a 
period of time. This decision only considers the complaint I have outlined above. I havent 
considered the issues raised about whether the portfolio was mis-sold, and the issues 
surrounding investment in the Woodford Fund  they have been raised with the firm 
separately.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said Mr M had invested his pension in one of 
Hargreaves Lansdowns Multi Manager Portfolios in 2018  the HL Portfolio+ Balanced 
Income portfolio. This was split across three holdings: the Equity & Bond Trust, Income & 
Growth Trust and Strategic Bond Trust. 
In May 2020 Hargreaves Lansdown contacted investors in the portfolio to say that due to the 
coronavirus pandemic it was going to cut the income payments from it. It provided a 
breakdown on the income currently being paid and what it expected would be paid going 
forwards.
The investigator said that as the portfolio was invested in different funds, it could only pay 
out an income from the returns obtained from the shares and bonds the funds were invested 
into. So it could only pay out an income based on what it received from those funds. The 
investigator thought Hargreaves Lansdowns decision to cut the income was a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial judgement. 
Mr M had said that Hargreaves Lansdown could have sold his shares in order to buy them 
back at a lower price. However the investigator said that as the portfolios objective was to 
achieve income and capital growth over the medium to longer term, if Hargreaves Lansdown 
had started selling its holdings during the period of high volatility it wouldnt have been 
following the portfolios objectives. He said it wasnt possible to predict what was going to 
happen, and investors could miss out on potential growth if markets started to rise again. 
The investigator said Hargreaves Lansdown had provided one-off advice to set up the 
portfolio of investments, and it was Mr Ms responsibility for the wider investment planning 
strategy and withdrawals. He said Hargreaves Lansdowns managers were responsible for 
managing the funds on a long-term basis  including re-balancing the funds every six 
months to make sure they were aligned to its objectives. But he didnt think Hargreaves 
Lansdowns managers could be held responsible for the performance or selling of shares 
due to market turbulence. And if Mr M was looking for short term gain, it was his 
responsibility to sell specific shares to achieve this.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said, in summary, that the investigator 
had misread the nature of the complaint. He said the reduction in income was a symptom of 
the mismanagement of the fund, but was only part of the problem. He said Hargreaves 
Lansdown did nothing to protect the income or the capital invested despite exorbitant 
charges to do just that. He said the six-monthly re-balancing wasnt Hargreaves Lansdowns 
only responsibility. This was part of the management fees and it was required to manage the 
fund on a daily basis. However it did nothing on a daily basis. If it had, it would have sold the 
shares/funds when it was clear that there would be a massive downward trend during 
lockdown. 
Mr M referred to the high fees he was paying and had paid for the original financial advice. 
He said that he was forced into the portfolio. Although the investigator had said that he had 
the opportunity to sell the fund  which would have been at a loss as it started losing money 
from day one  he was told during the financial advice that he needed to do nothing unless 
his personal circumstances changed. And he said the investigator hadnt mentioned the 
shocking Woodford Fund.
The investigator responded to say, in summary, that he didnt think Hargreaves Lansdown 
was responsible for buying and selling of the investments for short term gain. He said the 
aim of the portfolio was to achieve capital growth over the medium to longer term, and it was 
the fund managers responsibility to make day to day decisions with that long-term goal in 
mind. The investigator said that he was only looking at a complaint about mismanagement. 
He wasnt considering a complaint about whether the portfolio was mis-sold, or about the 
Woodford Fund.
Mr M subsequently said, in summary, that the investigation had only focused on one aspect 
of the complaint  the reduction in income. But this was incorrect. He said the difference 
between a managed portfolio and a managed fund had been misunderstood. And he said 
the investigator had failed to take into account that he was effectively forced down the line of 
buying the funds during the financial advice process.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I havent considered whether the portfolio was mis-sold in this complaint. 
That issue has been raised with the firm separately. Whether or not Mr M was forced into 
the portfolio will form part of that complaint  in effect  should he have been in the portfolio 
in the first place. What I have considered here is whether, once in that portfolio, it was 
managed appropriately. 
I accept what Mr M has said in that the portfolio service provided for both the management 
of the overall portfolio, in terms of it being re-balanced to reflect its pre-determined 
objectives, and for the underlying funds themselves to be managed on a daily basis. The 
portfolio is promoted as having a dedicated team of experts managing a diversified portfolio 
with a mix of different funds and managers. Mr M was invested in a mix of funds that 
presented different levels of risk  some presenting significant risk. And ultimately that 
means there is a performance risk  theres no guarantee of success.
The portfolios overall aim was to provide income and capital growth. The portfolio was 
invested in three trusts which themselves were invested in a series of funds. Each fund had 
its own individual investment mandate. It was the responsibility of each individual funds managers to manage the day to day running of each fund in line with its objectives, including 
decisions about buying and selling assets. 
Fund management isnt an exact science. Different investment managers will have different 
reasonable opinions, both about the general market direction as well as future individual 
asset prices. Shares listed on recognised stock markets need buyers in order that they can 
be sold. So the very mechanism by which shares are traded means that there are both 
buyers and sellers at the same time  reflecting different views on their future value. The 
same can be said about other assets. 
Mr M has questioned what the managers were doing day-to-day to react to changing 
market conditions. Hargreaves Lansdown said the underlying fund managers were 
tweaking their funds when making day-to-day decisions about the underlying assets. It has 
said changes were made to the funds making up the multi manager portfolio, increasing 
exposure to some areas that had not suffered dividend cuts to the same extent as UK-
oriented funds, and also increasing exposure to other funds with higher yields.
Mr M however has said the managers did nothing when they could have sold shares/funds 
when it was clear that there would only be a massive downward trend during lockdown. And 
he said they could then have bought them back at a lower price. However whilst some fund 
managers may have decided to move funds out of certain assets, it doesnt necessarily 
follow that those that didnt were negligent, or werent managing their funds appropriately. 
At any particular point in time a fund manager will have a view on the future value of a 
particular asset  but wont know its future price. If assets had been sold as Mr M has 
suggested, it may have turned out, as he said, that they could have been bought back at a 
lower price. But selling could also have crystalised a loss, and the assets could have 
increased in price after they had been sold. Whether or not any sales or purchases of assets 
are successful is only seen with the benefit of hindsight.
In its correspondence to Mr M dated 4 August 2020 Hargreaves Lansdown said:
the Multi-Manager investment philosophy is to invest for the long term. While some 
investors may consider jumping out of the market and selling everything during high 
volatility, the problem with this is you could miss out if markets suddenly rise again. Theres 
no signal once weve reached the bottom, and recoveries can sometimes happen quickly. 
On the other hand, you could re-enter the market thinking a recovery has begun, only to find 
out its a false dawn and markets fall again. By staying focused on the long term, you avoid 
making potentially costly mistakes by getting your decisions or timing wrong.
As I said above, different professionals will have different reasonable opinions about 
investments and investment strategies. The longer-term philosophy outlined by Hargreaves 
Lansdown above is consistent with a lot of other investment managers. Investment 
managers have a fairly wide discretion to manage their portfolios/funds how they see fit, but 
within the investment mandate that the governs the fund. I think its generally accepted 
within the industry that its difficult to time the markets, albeit some do so, and are successful 
in some circumstances. But it doesnt necessarily follow that those funds which remained 
invested were mismanaged. There are issues surrounding the Woodford Fund that formed 
part of the overall portfolio. However, concerns about the Woodford Fund have been raised 
with the firm separately. 
The more recent market volatility demonstrates how fund performance needs to be judged 
over time. Some of the best returning funds during the pandemic have more recently 
suffered significant underperformance. Only time shows which investment decisions were right.  However once a risk-based investment is made, it is just that - exposed to risk, and 
the possibility of losses or poor performance.
Mr M was initially advised to invest in the portfolio and the adviser had an obligation to 
ensure it was suitable for Mr Ms circumstances at that time. Unless Mr Ms circumstance 
and requirements changed (or the objective of the portfolio changed  which it didnt) it 
would generally remain suitable  albeit regular reviews are usually encouraged as 
circumstances do change over time. Hargreaves Lansdown was obliged to manage the 
portfolio in accordance with the portfolios aims and objectives. And the fund managers in 
line with the individual objectives of each fund. So on the one hand, I dont think Mr M had a 
responsibility to buy and sell individual shares or funds as such.
But if Mr M didnt think the portfolio itself was meeting his requirements, either in terms of the 
income it was paying, its performance, or the risks it presented, it was his decision whether 
to stay with it, or switch to another portfolio/fund(s). As Ive said above, whether or not the 
portfolio was mis-sold and Mr M should have been in it in the first place is the subject of a 
separate complaint.
Overall, I dont think the firms decision to cut the dividend was unreasonable  it reflected 
the outlook for the income generated by the portfolio and its performance at that time. And 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the portfolio or underlying funds were mis-managed. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman