DRN-1692530
 
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Vanquis Bank Ltd took too long to deal with his fraud complaint 
and this affected his credit score. 
What happened
Mr Ls wallet was stolen from him in a street robbery in June 2019. His Vanquis credit card 
was in his wallet with his other bank cards. Mr L reported the theft immediately to Vanquis, 
the other banks and the police. The thief used his credit card to make purchases, which took 
him over his credit limit.
Vanquis took approximately three weeks to respond to Mr Ls initial complaint. At the end of 
July 2019, a case handler told him he could expect a decision soon. However, he had to wait 
until 27 August 2019 for its decision. Thats when it refunded the disputed transactions, with 
interest. It also paid him £65 for the delay.
He expected a higher amount in compensation for the delay.
However, Vanquis said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it didnt refund customers 
before completing its investigation, as a matter of policy. It explained there was a risk that  a 
customer might use the funds before the bank reached a decision on liability. It also said it 
was Mr Ls responsibility to ensure his account was kept up to date throughout the 
investigation.
Mr L wasnt happy with this decision, so he brought his complaint to this service. He asked 
for £500 in compensation. He said that his credit score was affected by an adverse entry 
against the Vanquis account for the three months he waited for a decision. And, crucially, he 
said he was in the process of applying for a mortgage but this was declined. The mortgage 
broker told him that the adverse entry in his credit file was the most likely reason why his 
application was turned down.
An investigator looked into his case and decided to uphold it. He didnt agree that the 
mortgage application was directly affected by his credit file, but he agreed that the delay had 
caused him a lot of anxiety and distress. He recommended that Vanquis pay an additional 
£100 compensation.
Vanquis didnt agree with the investigators view and so this case has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
This is a dispute about the remedy on a disputed transactions claim. Vanquis has refunded 
the amount with interest. But thats not the only issue here. The relevant regulations, the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, set out time limits for refunding unauthorised 
transactions and for responding to complaints (regulations 76(2) and 101 respectively). It 
seems that Vanquish didnt observe those time limits. And so its fair and reasonable that I 
should consider the impact of the delay on Mr L.
I dont agree that the letter from the mortgage broker proves the credit score was the reason 
why Mr Ls mortgage application failed. As the investigator explained, most lenders base 
their decisions on lending criteria, which comprise different factors.  Its unlikely there was a 
single reason for the unsuccessful application. So I am not treating this as a direct loss 
resulting from the delay.
However, there was a delay, which Vanquis has acknowledged. Clearly, it had to complete 
its own investigation and was entitled to ask Mr L for further information, which it deemed 
necessary to ask for  whether unusual or not. However, a three weeks delay before any 
contact seems poor customer service, along with giving him false hope he would receive an 
answer soon. And during this time, his credit file must have worried him. I dont think it 
sympathetic or helpful to say it was his responsibility to keep his account up to date, when 
hed been the victim of theft.
So I can see that Mr L felt anxiety and stress waiting to hear from the bank. I consider 
therefore that its fair and reasonable for Vanquis to pay an additional £100 for his trouble 
and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint and I am asking Vanquis Bank Ltd to 
pay Mr L £100 for his trouble and upset caused by its delay.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman