DRN-3145397
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited trading as 
Moneybarn wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn.
Mr M experienced issues with the car. he says the turbo stopped working the day he 
collected the car and he had to take it back to the garage. He says the coolant was leaking 
and the clutch and flywheel needed replacing. Mr M says that hes had to spend over £2000 
on repairs.
Mr M raised a complaint with Moneybarn. He was unhappy that the garage had repaired the 
turbo with a used part from another car. he also said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
because the clutch and flywheel were worn when he took possession of the car.
In response, Moneybarn said it was up to Mr M to show that the faults were present at the 
point of supply. It said that Mr M hadnt provided any evidence to show this, and that the 
issues were more likely due to wear and tear.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although the turbo needed 
replacing on the day Mr M collected the car, the repair had been carried out free of charge 
by the dealership and it wasnt necessary to ask Moneybarn to do anything further about 
this. In relation to the issues with the clutch and the flywheel, the investigator said shed 
seen evidence that repairs had been carried out in January 2021, but said that because of 
the time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, the issue were likely to be due to 
wear and tear.
Mr M didnt agree. He said although hed covered 7000 miles in the car before the repairs to 
the clutch were carried pout, he said the issues with the clutch had arisen in the first 6 
months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr M  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which 
occurred due to wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Theres no dispute that that turbo was replaced when Mr M collected the car. I understand 
that the dealer carried out repairs free of charge. This is what I would expect it to do under 
the relevant legislation. I understand that Mr M wasnt happy that the dealer used second 
hand parts to repair the turbo. However, Mr Ms car was second hand, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the dealer to use second hand parts to repair it. Theres no evidence that 
the parts used werent fit for purpose or that the repair has failed. Taking this into account, I 
dont think I need to ask Moneybarn to do anything further about the turbo.
In relation to the issues with the flywheel and the clutch, and although Mr M has said that he 
experienced these issues within the first 6 months, the only evidence that Ive seen shows 
that the repairs to the clutch and flywheel were carried out in January 2021. Mr M has 
referred to these parts needing to be replaced as an emergency. This makes me think that if 
the issues had arisen in the first 6 months, and if they were serious enough to require 
emergency repair (as Mr M says they were), then I would have expected him to have 
arranged for the repair to be carried out much sooner, and within the first 6 months. On 
balance, and taking the available information into account, Im unable to safely conclude that 
the issues with the clutch and flywheel occurred in the first 6 months. This means that, under 
the relevant legislation, its up to Mr M to provide evidence that there were faults with the 
clutch and flywheel at the point of supply. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this 
was the case.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account. At the point of sale, the car was 
around 8 years old and had covered around 70,000 miles. As Ive already said, Id expect a 
second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear. I can see that Mr M covered a further 
7000 miles before the repairs to the clutch and flywheel were carried out. If there had been a 
fault with the clutch and/or flywheel at the point of supply, I would have expected the fault to 
have occurred much sooner . Because of the time and mileage elapsed, I think its more 
likely that the fault was caused by general wear and tear.
I can see that the car had a MOT just before it was supplied to Mr M. If there had been a 
fault with the clutch at this time, I think this wouldve been identified at the MOT. Theres 
nothing to suggest there was  a fault and no advisories were noted.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough evidence to say that there was  a 
fault with the clutch or flywheel at the point of supply. It seems more likely that the fault was 
caused by wear and tear. So I cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality and I wont 
be asking Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman