DRN-3449082
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Julian Hodge Bank Limited trading as Hodge Lifetime wouldnt 
agree to waive the early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage. They also complain 
about delays and administrative problems when they repaid the loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took a mortgage with Hodge Lifetime in early 2020. They took a two year fixed 
rate, with the mortgage on a seven year term overall. 
Shortly after the start of the mortgage, the coronavirus pandemic hit and national restrictions 
were implemented. Mr M was already retired and Mrs M decided to retire too, in part out of 
concern at exposing herself to infection in the workplace. Mr and Mrs M decided to redeem 
their mortgage and got in touch with Hodge Lifetime. 
Hodge Lifetime sent them a redemption statement including an ERC in September 2020. Mr 
and Mrs M asked Hodge Lifetime to consider waiving the ERC in view of the pandemic and 
their concerns for Mrs Ms health. But it would not agree to do so.
Mr and Mrs M asked for a further redemption statement to be emailed to them. Mr and Mrs 
M had cancelled their direct debit in the expectation of repaying their mortgage, so when 
Hodge Lifetime came to collect their payment in October 2020, it was unable to do so. It 
applied a returned direct debit fee. Two days later, on 9 October 2020, Mr and Mrs M made 
a payment intending to redeem their mortgage, but the amount was around £1,500 short. 
They paid the remaining amount about a week later.
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said it wasnt fair that they had to pay an ERC  and that 
the amount was unfair. They said Hodge Lifetime should have taken account of their health 
and vulnerability and the wider circumstances of the covid pandemic. And they said that 
mistakes and delays with the redemption caused them upset and inconvenience. Hodge 
Lifetime had sent them different redemption statements at different times, and via post when 
they had asked for email. This had delayed their ability to repay the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hodge Lifetime specialises in later life lending, and while this is a standard interest only 
mortgage, Hodge Lifetime markets it to borrowers aged over 55. Mr and Mrs M moved to 
Hodge Lifetime when their previous mortgage lender would not consider a term extension 
because Mr M was over the lenders maximum age.
Mr and Mrs Ms repayment strategy was the sale of a different property, and initially they 
hadnt wanted to sell it because they were concerned it had fallen in value. However, by 
mid-2020 they decided that they would redeem anyway. They were concerned that they 
were vulnerable to covid-19, so Mrs M decided to retire and they wanted to pay off this 
mortgage and not have to make further payments.
Mr and Mrs M asked Hodge Lifetime to consider waiving the ERC. It asked them for some 
evidence of any health conditions. Having considered their request, it then refused to waive 
the ERC. I dont think this was unfair. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs M were given when they took their mortgage 
out. The regulator requires a mortgage offer to give information about ERCs in a very 
specific and precise form, including specific information. Its arguable that Hodge Lifetimes 
mortgage offer doesnt strictly comply with these requirements  for example because it 
doesnt say how the ERC is calculated (such as a percentage of the loan balance). Though, 
importantly, it does set it out as a cash amount.
However, it's not my role to enforce strict compliance with the rules; thats a matter for the 
regulator. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  in which 
the rules are a relevant, but not the only, consideration. Im not satisfied it would be fair and 
reasonable to say the ERC isnt enforceable. And Im not satisfied that it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs M didnt understand that an ERC would be payable if they 
redeemed during the fixed rate period  not least because they asked Hodge Lifetime to 
waive it before they received the redemption statement setting it out. I dont therefore think 
that I can fairly find that Hodge Lifetime was not entitled to charge the ERC.
Nor am I persuaded that the mortgage offer suggests the ERC is negotiable  asking Mr and 
Mrs M to contact Hodge Lifetime to find out the exact amount of the ERC on any given day is 
not the same as promising to negotiate the amount.
I think the heart of this complaint is whether it was fair for Hodge Lifetime to decline to waive 
the ERC once Mr and Mrs M asked it to consider their circumstances. Ive noted the 
regulators guidance on the support it expected lenders to offer. This included payment 
deferrals  but not the waiving of interest or charges, or changes to mortgage terms and 
conditions. So Im satisfied there was no general expectation on Hodge Lifetime to waive 
ERCs for customers affected by the pandemic.
As to whether it would have been fair to do so in Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances, 
Ive not seen any evidence that the ERC caused them particular financial hardship, or that it 
meant they were unable to afford to redeem the mortgage. This was a very difficult time for 
them, as it was for many other people, but while Im sure theyd rather not have had to pay it, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that the ERC had a particular impact on them at this time. 
It seems the trigger for repaying the mortgage was that Mrs M decided to retire  though 
since she was 68 when they took out this seven year mortgage, and Mr M was already 
retired, it seems likely they would have been expecting her to retire during the term in any 
case. And therefore presumably they took that into account when deciding to take the 
mortgage out. To that extent, Mrs Ms retirement brought forward something they would 
always have been expecting to happen before the end of the term in any case  it wasnt 
something completely unexpected. Their plans may have changed because of the pandemic 
 though perhaps in timing rather than substance. 
An ERC is not a penalty for breaking a mortgage contract early  rather, its the price to be 
paid in return for being allowed to exit early. Its designed to cover the lenders costs 
resulting from an early exit. The existence of the ERC therefore allowed Mr and Mrs M to 
change their plans and repay early.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were aware they would have to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed early, and that this didnt prevent them redeeming or cause them undue financial hardship. In all the circumstances I dont think I can fairly find that Hodge Lifetime should 
have waived the ERC.
There was some confusion around the issue of redemption statements, and the amount 
needed to redeem the loan. In part, this was caused by different redemption statements 
being sent on different dates, with some sent by post and some sent by email. But Mr and 
Mrs M were able to redeem. And Hodge Lifetime refunded the fee it charged for the missed 
direct debit, and ensured that Mr and Mrs M were able to redeem in full by mid-October. In 
all the circumstances, I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman