DRN-3513976
The complaint
Ms W complains Skipton Building Society (Skipton) failed to allocate the payment she made 
to her Lifetime ISA account in time for the existing tax year.
What happened
Ms W says she made a payment of £4,000 on Sunday 4 April 2021 to her Lifetime Individual 
Savings Account (LISA) with Skipton, expecting the payment to have been processed within 
a couple of hours. Ms W says Skipton processed her payment on Tuesday 6 April 2021, 
meaning that she missed the benefits of the payment being allocated to the 2020/21 tax 
year. Ms W says this has meant she lost out on the 25% bonus provided by the government 
and her tax-free allowance for that year. 
Ms W says its unfair Skipton have accepted other forms of payments up until 5 April 2021, 
and not her faster payment method and it hasnt followed the government guidelines on 
assigning payments to LISA accounts. 
Ms W wants Skipton to reassign her £4,000 LISA payment to the 2020/2021 tax year and to 
receive the 25% bonus from the government. 
Skipton says it accepts faster payments, but unlike banks, as a building society it was not 
able to process this type of payment on a weekend or bank holiday, and this payment was 
received on the Sunday before a bank holiday Monday. Furthermore, Skipton says it sent an 
email to Ms W, on 19 March 2021 informing her of the deadline dates for LISA payments 
and this information was also available on its website. 
Ms W wasnt happy with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Skipton provided evidence to show it had sent an email to Ms W in March 
2021 to inform her of the deadline dates required for that tax years LISA payments. The 
investigator says she didnt feel Skipton had made an error by applying Ms Ws payment to 
the new tax year. 
Ms W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms W to learn the payment she had made 
in good faith to her LISA with Skipton, wasnt processed in time for her to take benefit of the 
current tax year allowance for 2020/2021.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Skipton acted unfairly when it allocated the 
payment sent by Ms W on 4 April 2021, to her LISA for the following tax year 2021/2022.
Ms Ws complaint centres around the fact she made a faster payment to her LISA on 
Sunday 4 April 2021, but this wasnt allocated until 6 April 2021, which resulted in her 
missing out on her tax-free allowance and 25% bonus allocated by the government. Ms W 
has pointed out Skipton accepted other forms of payment up until 5 April 2021, so cant 
understand why her payment is being treated differently. Ms W has also provided various 
excerpts from the guidelines provided to LISA managers in particular the following: 
Where the ISA manager has an instruction from the investor and is in control of the 
collection of the payment, the date of subscription is the date the manager is instructed to 
collect the payment provided:
- the instruction was accepted
-  the payment is received in due course
I understand the points Ms W has raised and I can see she feels strongly about this. The first 
thing to say is I cant say Skipton have ignored any government guidelines, as it hadnt 
accepted the faster payment Ms W sent and had previously informed her it wouldnt be able 
to. In addition, this wasnt an instruction from the investor as Ms W refers to above, simply 
an ad hoc payment made by her, and it was Ms W who was in control of the payment here, 
not Skipton.  
While Ms W may not agree, this service has been provided with an email sent to her by 
Skipton on 19 March 2021, to the email address Ms W has provided this service, where it 
clearly states due to the fact the tax year falls on an Easter bank holiday customers might 
need to act sooner and that any bank transfers need to be made by 5pm Thursday 1 April 
2021. The email does allow for debit cards payments and online app payments to be 
accepted slightly later. 
This email also makes clear payments after these deadlines may not be processed in time 
and this is what happened here. 
With that in mind I am satisfied while Skipton had received the payment on 4 April 2021 a 
Sunday, and given the Monday was a bank holiday, it hadnt accepted the faster payment at 
that time as its systems werent able to process it. That is why it had previously alerted its 
customers of this issue, including Ms W in March 2021. 
Its not the role of this service to tell Skipton how its processes for certain types of payments 
must work, only that customers are made reasonably aware of this and I am satisfied it did 
that here. 
I understand Ms W feels Skipton should treat her payment like other payment methods and 
the email doesnt say payments post 1 April 2021 wont be processed in time, only they 
might not be.  But here, I cant tell Skipton it must treat Ms Ws payment more 
sympathetically in the circumstances, as it has after all, provided a previous notice warning 
of the cut off deadlines. Given the importance of this payment to Ms W, its fair to say it was 
also her responsibility to ensure she gave sufficient time for her payment to be processed, 
especially bearing in mind this was a bank holiday weekend, which unfortunately was the 
reason why the payment wasnt received in time. 
While Ms W will be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Skipton are at fault here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman