DRN-3555469
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the delays he experienced whilst waiting for his boiler to be repaired, 
under his homecare policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Firstly, I can understand this will have been a difficult and frustrating time for Mr G 
and his wife, to be without heating and hot water in January. I say this especially 
considering their age and Mr Gs recent ill health. 
This will have been compounded by British Gas arranging for an engineer to attend 
and hopefully rectify the issue, before cancelling at late notice. 
I agree with the investigator, and I think British Gas has also acknowledged, that the 
initial rescheduled appointment for three weeks time, wasnt reasonable. 
Whilst this was then brought forward to just over a weeks time, Mr G remains 
unhappy with the offer of £40 to compensate him.
However, British Gas has said that due to staffing issues, it wasnt possible to get an 
earlier appointment for Mr G, despite his circumstances. The homecare policy that  
Mr G has doesnt make any guarantee as to how quickly an engineer would visit and 
only provides for an appointment within a reasonable time. Considering this, whilst 
an unfortunate and difficult length of time to wait, I cant say it was unreasonable. 
I am glad that Mr G mitigated the impact this had on him and his wife through a third-
party plumber and was refunded the cost less excess by British Gas, as the policy 
allows. Therefore, costing the same as had the British Gas engineer resolved it. 
British Gas has said they treated Mr G with as much urgency as they could at the 
time. I think £40 is a reasonable offer of compensation for the impact that the initial 
cancelled appointment and unreasonable initial rescheduling had on him. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Gs frustration, I think the offer made by    
British Gas Insurance Limited to put things right, is a fair one.
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr G £40 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr G £40 if they havent 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman