DRN-2166501
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt fit 
for purpose. She would like to reject the car and get a refund of costs she has incurred
What happened
Miss D says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a two-year-old car with 60,000 
miles on the clock with BMWFS on 29 January 2019.
She says a warning light came on 7 May 2020. And on 21 May 2020 she told BMWFS the 
car wasnt drivable
Miss D arranged her own independent inspection which confirmed the car shouldnt be 
driven, the fault didnt appear to be driver error and the engine might need replacing. At this 
point Miss D says she asked to reject the car.
She says this situation has caused her a lot of stress and has impacted on her health. Also, 
financially she has had to pay for alternative transport whilst still making her monthly 
repayments.
BMWFS said the problem arose over a year after Miss D had the car, there was no evidence 
there was any point of sale issue and it was likely that any issues were down to Miss D not 
servicing the car at the appropriate time.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She found it was likely there was a fault present or 
developing at the point of sale. But that this would have been compounded by a delay in its 
first service (before Miss D got the car) and in the second service which Miss D should have 
carried out. 
As the dealership didnt initially offer to remedy the defect and, as she didnt feel a full engine 
replacement was reasonable on a four year old car ,she felt it was fair to allow rejection but 
not to repay any monthly installments due to Miss Ds usage of the car and the fact Miss D 
had compounded the problem by not servicing the vehicle on time. For the same reasons 
she felt it was reasonable to only refund half of Miss Ds deposit.
She also felt the delay in BMWFS in dealing with Miss Ds complaint would have caused her 
some distress and inconvenient. But that BMWFSs refund of one months payment and a 
refund for the cost of the independent report was enough compensation.
Miss D accepted this view but as BMWFS didnt. In order to avoid going to a final decision 
Miss D put forward some other suggestions. She said she was happy to forgo the refund of 
her deposit as she just wanted to be able to hand the car back
She asked about voluntary termination options saying she would get the car into a 
roadworthy state if BMWFS would be flexible over the VT payment. However, as BMWFS 
only offered a £500 reduction to the VT figure Miss D didnt accept this. She didnt feel it 
would cover the cost of the repairs needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has obviously found her situation stressful and I do understand that.
I am conscious Miss D bought a two-year-old car with just over 20,000 miles on the clock. 
We might reasonably expect more wear, tear and repair issues with a used car than for 
example with a new car although in this case Miss Ds car was only two years old with 
relatively low mileage.
However, we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If issues arise within 
the first six months, we usually say its down to the business to investigate and identify if 
there are any point of sale issues for which it would be responsible. As the problem Miss D 
experienced was after she had had the car for more than six months I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BMWFS to advise Miss D she had to arrange her own inspection.
The independent inspection, whilst not particularly detailed, did confirm a problem with Miss 
Ds car. The information from that inspection along with our investigators discussion with the 
garage that did the inspection confirmed that it was more than likely that a new engine at an 
approximate cost of £4,000 would be needed. That driver usage wasnt the issue but that the 
quality of the oil may well be the issue. The garage advised this would have been checked at 
regular services but the initial service prior to Miss D getting the car and the regular service 
Miss D should have carried out were both done months later than they should have been. 
So, the early opportunity to check the oil was missed  twice.
I accept BMWFSs point that there is no conclusive evidence of a point of sale issue. The 
independent inspection doesnt confirm a point of sale issue. But it seems clear to me that 
the two delayed services are likely to have been significant factors in causing the car to 
break down.
I agree with our investigator that there is no evidence that Miss D was told that her car had 
been serviced prior to her getting it. But even  if this were the case as she got the car in 
January 2019, she should have had it serviced in January 2020 but didnt do so until the 
problem arose in May 2020.
And had she checked the log book she would have known the last service was carried out in 
June 2018 so she should have had the car serviced in June 2019.
But its also clear that the first service on the car  prior to Miss D getting the car  was 
carried out on 25 June 2018 at 18.160 miles. BMWFS has confirmed that the service should 
have been every 10,000 miles and this first service was seven months overdue. And we 
understand that the first service on a car is the most important one. Its also clear from the 
customer notes from BMWFS that it felt that this delayed service did give Miss D grounds to 
complain.
Taking all this information together I think its more likely than not that the problem was 
present or developing at the point of sale caused by the delay in the first service. However, I 
also think that Miss Ds delayed service added to the problem.
I think its unreasonable to expect Miss D to have her car repaired  I dont think a relatively 
new car should expect to have such a major repair. And given the delay in dealing with Miss 
Ds complaint I dont think she would have any faith in any repair. I think rejection is more 
appropriate in this case.In terms of redress I understand that Miss D has accepted our investigators 
recommendation of a 50% refund of her deposit.
I agree Miss D shouldnt be refunded for payments made whilst she had use of the car. I 
understand her July 2020 payment has been refunded but if she has made payments for 
August and September 2020, I think it fair to refund these as the car wasnt drivable during 
this time.
I am pleased to note that BMWFS has refunded the cost of Miss Ds independent inspection 
which I think is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement BMW should:-
- Take back Miss Ds car at no cost to Miss D
- Show Miss Ds account as settled on her credit file
- Refund 50% of Miss Ds deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
-Refund monthly installments paid in August and September 2020
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman