DRN-1370999
The complaint
Mr A complained about the valuation of his car by UK Insurance Limited (UKI) when it was 
stolen.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr As car was stolen.  He submitted a claim to UKI.  At first, they offered 
Mr A £59,080.  When Mr A complained, UKI reviewed their decision and got a bespoke 
valuation.  After that, they increased their offer to £62,499.
Mr A complained to us.  He thought a more realistic valuation of the car was £80,000.  But 
hed be prepared to settle for £75,000. He said that UKI hadnt taken account of the high 
specification on his car when they calculated its value.  And that theyd not considered 
evidence he provided about the retail prices of similar cars.
Our investigator considered the matter.  He didnt think UKI should have done anything 
differently.  He said that, under Mr As insurance policy, they had to pay him the market 
value of his car.  The investigator got valuations for the car from several trade guides.  
These were at broadly the same level as UKIs payment.  So he didnt think UKI had been 
unfair or unreasonable in how theyd reached their figure.  
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view.  He said that he couldnt buy an equivalent car 
for the amount hed been paid by UKI.  So he didnt accept it was a fair market price.
Because Mr A didnt accept the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr As policy says:
The most we will pay is the market value of your car at the time the loss or damage 
happened unless your vehicle is shown as having the agreed value benefit included on your 
schedule, in which case the most we will pay is the value listed on your schedule.
Mr A didnt have the agreed value benefit, so his claim was limited to the market value of his 
car.  That isnt necessarily the same amount as it would actually cost him to replace it.
Its not our role to provide a valuation; we look at whether an insurer has reached its 
valuation fairly.  We expect insurers to do this by looking at the major trade guides to get a 
valuation.  And we check this by getting valuations ourselves.
In this case, Ive seen valuations from different trade guides, which took into account the 
additional options Mr A chose when he bought the car.  Im satisfied its appropriate for me to rely on them.  The valuations range from £55,360 to £63,086.  Both UKIs offers were within 
that range.  So I think the amount they paid Mr A was fair.
I know Mr As concerned that his cars high specification level wasnt taken into account, and 
that some of the options hed chosen made it particularly desirable.   I can understand why 
he might think these would increase the value.  But often thats not the case.  And Ive seen 
that UKI got a bespoke valuation, which says that one of the factors it takes into account is 
the model specification.  So I think that was considered when UKI calculated the market 
value.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman