DRN-2911097
The complaint
Mr B complained that Revolut Ltd blocked his account for around three weeks and caused 
him to lose money on an investment. 
 
What happened
Mr B opened an account with Revolut in March 2017. In December 2019 Mr B began 
transferring large amounts of money from his current account with another bank to his 
Revolut account. He carried out several of these transactions before Revolut blocked his 
account on 10 December 2019, in order to verify the source of the funds being transferred. 
On the same day, Mr B provided Revolut with the information it requested. He tried to 
contact Revolut on a number of occasions, using its in-app chat facility, during the following 
week. He didnt get a response and so complained to Revolut on 17 December 2019. 
Revolut responded and said its automated system flags certain transactions and this is why 
Mr Bs account was placed under review. It said delays were caused by the high volume of 
enquiries at the time. Revolut said it would reimburse Mr B 15.98 EUR, which equated to two 
months premium plan fee. It also said it would deal with his review as a priority. 
Mr B continued to try and contact Revolut but didnt get a response until 2 January 2020. It 
asked Mr B to resubmit some documentation he had earlier sent, as his name wasnt visible 
on it. Mr B sent what was requested to Revolut and the security checks were completed on 
the same day. So Mr Bs account was unblocked. Mr B again complained to Revolut.  
Revolut responded and said banking regulations meant it was required to continually verify 
consumers income and account activity. However, it said it took an unacceptably long time 
to deal with the checks on Mr Bs account, as it was understaffed. Revolut apologised and 
refunded a total of six months premium plan fees, equating to 47.94 EUR. Revolut said it 
wasnt liable for potentially lost opportunities or third party fees incurred as a result of the 
account being blocked.
  
Mr B was unhappy with the response from Revolut and so complained to this service. He 
said his account was blocked without good cause and he was unable to transfer investment 
funds he had committed to. And as a result he incurred late payment penalty charges. Mr W 
asked for Revolut to compensate him for the financial damage he suffered. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked Revolut to pay him an 
additional £50 compensation for the delays experienced. Revolut agreed to pay this 
additional amount. Mr B didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am partially upholding this complaint.
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have his account placed under review 
at the point in time when he was trying to meet a deadline for an investment. But financial 
institutions, like Revolut, are required by the regulator to carry out checks as and when its 
systems flag transactions or accounts. And Revolut is allowed to completely block or limit 
access, as was the case here, while it carries out these reviews. This service wont interfere 
with financial institutions taking appropriate steps to meet their regulatory obligations. 
I can see that Revolut includes information in its terms and conditions about the actions it 
might take if its concerned about security, or needs to take steps to meet its legal or 
regulatory obligations. So Im satisfied its done enough to let Mr B know that situations like 
this one might occasionally happen.  
Having said that, I would expect Revolut to deal with account reviews as quickly as it can, so 
as to minimise any inconvenience to consumers. I can see Revolut acknowledged there 
were staff shortages and backlogs, and this impacted on the time taken to carry out the 
review on Mr Bs account. I agree with Revolut that it took too long to review Mr Bs account. 
However, its important to note that even though I think Revolut took too long to deal with 
this, it still needed to carry out the checks, irrespective of the length of time it took to do that. 
Mr B has asked that Revolut compensate him for the losses he incurred as a result of not 
being able to meet his investment obligations. I sympathise with Mr B but Revoluts terms 
and conditions are clear that it wont do this if, for instance, the loss occurs because of a 
legal or regulatory requirement. I think this is a fair term and while I appreciate the loss 
suffered by Mr B, I wont be asking Revolut to compensate him for any losses incurred. 
But Revolut should compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him. He had to wait longer than would reasonably be expected and he made numerous 
efforts to try and communicate with Revolut about this, but his queries went unanswered. I 
can see Revolut has already refunded six months worth of account fees, equal to 47.94 
EUR. I agree with our investigator that this is not enough and that Revolut should pay an 
additional £50 compensation to Mr B. 
I know that Mr B also suggested Revolut compensate him in the same way he would have 
had to compensate it if he had held onto money for a three-week period that should have 
been paid to it. But I dont intend to ask Revolut to do this. There is no agreement between 
Mr B and Revolut that delays would be compensated for in this way, and I wont make a 
finding that might suggest there should be.  
I understand that my decision will disappoint Mr B, but Im satisfied that asking Revolut to 
pay an additional amount of £50 for distress and inconvenience is a fair outcome here.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to pay Mr B 
an amount of £50. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman