DRN-3234591
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) stopped 
paying him for loss of rent after he claimed under the Household Building Insurance for Local 
Authorities for water damage to his rental property.
The local authority is the policyholder for the overall building insurance. Mr I, as owner and 
leaseholder of a flat within the building, is a direct beneficiary of the policy. Therefore, Im 
able to consider his complaint. For ease, Ill refer to Mr I throughout my decision as if he is 
the policyholder.
What happened
Mr I claimed under the insurance policy in July 2019 for water damage. His tenants stopped 
paying rent in October 2018 but only vacated the property in July 2019. During that time, Mr I 
was unable to enter the flat and although he knew thered been a leak, he understood it had 
been fixed.
When Mr I regained access to the flat, he raised a claim with Ocaso for the water damage. It 
declined his claim to begin with but, after he appointed a loss assessor (LA), Ocaso 
overturned its decision.
Ocaso agreed to pay the loss of rent between October 2018 and July 2019 when the tenants 
still lived in the flat. It also paid the loss of rent from when Mr I made his claim in July 2019, 
until February 2021. During that time, the flat was stripped out, dried, suffered further leaks, 
and dried again. 
Because the new leak seemed to be coming from the flat above, Mr I was reliant on the local 
authority investigating it. Due to Covid restrictions, that investigation was delayed. Mr I asked 
Ocaso to continue payment for loss of rent from February 2021 onwards. But Ocaso rejected 
his request because it thought Mr I couldve progressed some repair work during the interim 
to make the flat habitable, so he hadnt mitigated his loss.
Ocaso paid the remaining repairs settlement in July 2021. But Mr I remained unhappy that it 
wouldnt pay for loss of rent and he complained about the time taken to handle his claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr Is complaint. She said the evidence pointed to Mr I following the 
experts directions in relation to waiting for repairs, so she didnt think hed delayed repairing 
the flat unnecessarily. Because of that, our investigator thought Ocaso should continue to 
pay for loss of rent in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr I was happy with the outcome but, despite reminders, Ocaso didnt respond. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
Theres a lot of information available to me regarding this complaint, including photos of 
extensive damage, and communication between Ocaso and Mr Is LA. I wont comment on 
each piece of evidence  and Im not required to. Instead Ill consider the overall complaint 
and explain why Ive reached this decision.
The overriding issue is that Ocaso stopped paying Mr I for loss of rent while his flat was 
waiting to be repaired following water damage.
On the face of it I can see why Ocaso thought Mr I couldve been progressing works during 
the many months it paid his loss of rent. But, looking at the LAs report, I can why he didnt. 
The report says:
ceiling surfaces specifically above the bathroom and hallway towards rear bedroom are 
now wet again. Perceived obvious source is [flat above] with whom we have been unable 
to make contact or have any authorising Mandate to access/ investigate;  from the 
bathroom photos the ceiling areas where paint barrier removed/ scraped were wet, now 
much larger spread is wet so will require further drying when ceased and also recent 
mould spores. 
every effort has been made to mitigate and progress towards reinstatement on behalf of 
Mr I but the source and issue continues hence unfeasible to reinstate further until 
confirmed as resolved. The adjacent communal area staircase and hallway now also 
appears in worsened condition, reflecting that surfaces are continually sodden with 
ingress potentially towards [Mr Is flat].
Ive noted Ocasos point that there was evidence of some work done in Mr Is flat. But, given 
the content of the LAs report, its clear that if Mr I had completed extensive repairs, its likely 
they wouldve needed to be done again once the source of the leak was identified and fixed. 
That work was outside of Mr Is control. 
So, having looked at Mr Is reason for not progressing repairs, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
because he was simply following the experts advice.
Looking at whether Mr I caused delays, I havent seen any evidence to support that. The 
circumstances around the time of the damage were unusual, with restrictions on contact with 
other people. Mr I was reliant on the local authority to investigate the cause of the leak which 
originated from outside his property, so he had no control over the timing. I dont think its fair 
for Ocaso to hold him responsible for those delays or limit his loss of rent claim when claim 
progression was out of Mr Is hands.
Overall, I can see that Mr I has been in difficult circumstances, here, and I can understand 
his frustration with being unable to repair the damage to his property because he was 
waiting for action by other organisations over which he had no influence. Therefore, I cant 
fairly say he caused the delays in repairing his flat, so I see no reason for Ocaso to reject his 
claim for further loss of rent. Putting things right
To put matters right, Ill be asking Ocaso to continue to pay the loss of rent to the date the 
flat is habitable, or the terms of the policy allow it to cease those payments, whichever is 
sooner. As Mr I hasnt had access to that rental income, so Ill also be asking Ocaso to pay 
simple interest on it at a rate of 8% per year from the date the payments stopped to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint and Ocaso 
SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must:
pay the loss of rent from the date it stopped paying, in line with the terms of the 
policy, and
pay 8% simple interest* per year on the loss of rent from the date the payments 
stopped to the date of settlement.
*If Ocaso considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr I a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman