DRN-2972007
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy his car insurance claim was declined by Berkshire Hathaway International
Insurance Ltd.
What happened
On 29 January 2020 Mr A was driving from a work conference to his office when his car was
hit by a lorry. Berkshire said they couldnt honour the claim because the journey was classed
as business use which he wasnt covered for. They explained he only had cover for
journeys made for social, domestic, pleasure and commuting. In terms of commuting this
only included travel to and from one fixed place of work. Because hed travelled to another
location for work purposes this was classed as business use.
Mr A wasnt happy about this because he thought business cover was purely for people who
use their car regularly for work rather than someone in his position who used his car to
attend a one-off work conference. Unhappy with Berkshires response Mr A complained to
our service.
Our investigator looked at what Mr A wouldve seen at the time he took his insurance policy
out. He could see there were various levels of travel options available and that there was an
optional information icon providing further information should Mr A want to read more.
Although our investigator agreed Mr A had a responsibility to ensure he read all the
information available to ensure the policy was right for him, he highlighted the definition of
commuting was given as an optional information point rather than a mandatory point. And
given this was such an important definition, he didnt think it was displayed clearly enough.
Our investigator looked at the documents Berkshire issued to Mr A but none of these
referred to commuting or business use. So even after Mr A had purchased his policy, our
investigator thought the literature didnt give him the opportunity to ensure hed selected the
right option.
Our investigator didnt disagree with the reason the claim was declined but concluded the
definition wasnt presented clearly enough at the time of the policy purchase. Mr A eventually
turned to a third party to deal with the claim and his car was repaired with all costs covered.
So our investigator said Berkshire should:
 record the accident as non-fault (internally and with the claims and underwriting 
exchange),
 refund any increase in premiums if Mr A renewed the policy and it has been affected 
by a fault being recorded,
 pay Mr A £250 for the trouble and upset caused in dealing with the issue and getting 
his car repaired elsewhere.
Berkshire rejected this. It said Mr A had to select his travel option from a drop down option
so it was incumbent on him to understand what he was selecting. They also said the terms
commuting and business use are commonly used terms so giving this information as
optional information was sufficient, particularly as Mr A had been driving and purchasing
insurance for over ten years. 
Our investigator said the only reference to the definition of journey use classification was in
the pre-sale section which isnt mandatory, and its not detailed in the policy literature. He
concluded these are important terms given that they come with further exclusions and
restrictions. 
Our investigator also explained other insurers use these terms but have
variations to what they will cover, so he didnt think it was reasonable Berkshire assumed Mr
A wouldve known what they meant.
He also said just because Mr A has been driving for over ten years this isnt a reason why
hed know what these terms meant, especially as not every insurer uses these in the same
way. So he concluded Berkshire didnt make it clear enough to Mr A what the exclusions and
restrictions of his policy were.
Berkshire didnt agree with our investigator, so they asked for the case to be passed to an
ombudsman. 
On 8 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision an extract of which Ive included below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Berkshire how they have recorded this claim and theyve explained it has been
recorded as non-fault internally and also with the claims and underwriting exchange. This
should also mean that Mr A didnt experience an increase in premiums. So I dont think
Berkshire need to do anything further here.
Ive not considered the information that was available to Mr A at the time he took out his
insurance policy and the different levels of cover that were available to him. The reason for
this is because Berkshire have recorded the claim correctly and Mr A hasnt been financially
impacted by the claim itself in terms of increased premiums and hes also been able to get
the repair costs back, albeit through a third party.
However, I do acknowledge the level of service Mr A experienced fell short of what wed
expect to see so I have considered this in further detail below.
I can see that after Mr A reported the accident, he was asked to get an estimate for the
repair work that was needed for his car. Mr A was then told the repair had been authorised
which I think was misleading because Berkshire hadnt yet concluded their investigation. So I
can understand why it would have been disappointing for Mr A to have received this
message that his costs would be covered but to be later told the claim had been declined.
Mr A also said he was unhappy about the amount of time between him notifying Berkshire of 
the claim and the decision to decline it. I can see Mr A got in touch with Berkshire on 29
January 2020 to let them know about the accident. It seems that by 4 February 2020
Berkshire explained they would be declining the claim. So in total it took less than a week for
Berkshire to reach an outcome. Whilst I appreciate Mr A wanted this as soon as possible, I
dont think this was an unreasonable length of time to wait.
Mr A said he is unhappy a third party got in touch with Mr A about a courtesy car but hed
already been told by Berkshire his claim had been declined, and I can appreciate why this
would have added further frustration for Mr A.As Mr A was unable to resolve the situation with Berkshire he eventually turned to a third
party company to assist him. Mr A had to go to the effort of pursuing this through a third
party who were able to assist him and recovered all costs from the other insurer. This would
have been inconvenient, and time consuming for Mr A and meant the matter was ongoing for
a longer period of time than necessary. So taking everything into account and given the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr A, I think Berkshire should pay £250 in compensation.
Berkshire replied to say they didnt have any further points to add. Mr A had further 
comments which he had mentioned previously. Ive summarised these below.
Mr A explained the process he went through when purchasing his policy and the information 
that was displayed when selecting his policy. Mr A has provided a lot of helpful detail around 
this along with screenshots. He explained this is key to his claim because under the 
definitions provided by the comparison website, Berkshire should have accepted his claim. 
Mr A said he was happy with the suggested outcome although he wanted this inconsistency 
highlighted to avoid others from being misled as he was left with a relatively new car which 
had substantial damage which he was unable to repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did take all of Mr As submissions into consideration when I reviewed his case but as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Ive not considered the information that was available 
to Mr A at the time he took out his insurance policy and the different levels of cover that were 
available to him. 
The reason for this is because Berkshire have recorded the claim correctly as non-fault 
internally and also with the claims and underwriting exchange. This should mean that Mr A 
didnt experience an increase in premiums and as hes received his repair costs back. So for 
this reason, I dont think Berkshire need to do anything further in terms of the claim itself. 
However, I do realise Mr A had to go to the effort of pursuing his claim through a third
party which would have been inconvenient, and time consuming for Mr A and meant the 
matter was ongoing for a longer period of time than necessary which must have been 
frustrating. Mr A has also said this was a stressful time for him. So taking everything into 
account and given the trouble and upset caused to Mr A, I still think Berkshire should pay 
£250 in compensation.
Putting things right
As explained above, I think Berkshire should pay Mr A £250 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Berkshire Hathaway International
Insurance Ltd should pay Mr A £250 for the trouble and upset he experienced. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman