DRN-3262805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to decline an application to port 
their mortgage and then charge them an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs H are represented by their mortgage broker.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with HSBC that they took in 2018. If they repaid it before 
November 2023, an ERC would be charged.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs H applied to HSBC to port their mortgage with the help of their 
mortgage broker. However, the decision in principle their broker applied for was declined. 
The broker didnt agree that this shouldve been declined and contacted HSBC. 
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs H obtained copies of their credit file and discovered a missed 
payment had recently been recorded on it by another provider. They contacted the credit 
provider who confirmed this was a mistake and that it would be removed from their credit file. 
But they were also told this could take up to 28 days. Mr and Mrs H didnt want to risk losing 
their property. So, the broker asked HSBC if it would consider the application with the 
adverse data still showing on their credit file. And he provided HSBC with evidence that this 
was an error by another business.
HSBC said it wasnt willing to consider the application until the adverse data had been fully 
removed from Mr and Mrs Hs credit file. Mr and Mrs H werent willing to wait, so they 
applied to another mortgage lender, repaid their HSBC mortgage and were charged an ERC 
of over £6,000. The complained to HSBC about this asking it to refund the ERC.
In response to the complaint, HSBC confirmed its policy was that the adverse data on the 
credit file needed to be removed before it would consider the application further. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and referred their complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He was satisfied HSBC was entitled to decide whether or not to lend, and that its decision to 
insist on the credit file being amended before it would consider an application was fair.
Mr and Mrs Hs broker responded in detail disagreeing with our investigator. He asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage broker has submitted the complaint in detail and made a number 
of points. I want to reassure him, and Mr and Mrs H, that Ive considered everything theyve 
said. I may not address every single point theyve made. Instead Im going to focus on the 
crux of the complaint. I hope Mr and Mrs H and their broker understand I mean no disrespect 
by this, and it doesnt mean I havent considered every point. It just reflects the informal 
nature of this service. 
When Mr and Mrs H entered into their original mortgage agreement with HSBC, they agreed 
to the terms of the mortgage offer. The offer set out that an ERC would be payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed before 30 November 2023. Im therefore satisfied that the ERC has 
been applied in line with the mortgage offer. However, thats not the dispute here. 
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that they werent able to port their mortgage to another property 
to avoid paying the ERC.
When a mortgage is ported, it is in effect a new mortgage, but with the mortgage product 
(such as a fixed rate in this case) which is transferred across. This means that a lender is 
generally required to complete an affordability assessment. There are exceptions when an 
affordability assessment isnt required. But Mr and Mrs H were borrowing more money, so 
an affordability assessment was required.
Most lenders use credit scoring or a credit search as part of their lending assessment. Thats 
because how borrowers have conducted themselves with existing commitments is generally 
seen as a good guide to how they may keep up with new commitments. HSBC use a credit 
scoring system which takes into account a number of factors such as income, and existing 
commitments as well as credit history to make a lending decision.
In this case, we dont know the exact reason the decision in principle was declined. 
However, having reviewed the copy of Mr Hs credit file, I agree a recent missed payment to 
an existing loan showing was likely the reason the credit score carried out by HSBC failed. 
Im aware that this was due to a mistake by the credit provider. However, this wasnt the fault 
of HSBC. I can see that the mortgage broker provided evidence that this was a mistake. And 
HSBC did review this. However, it wasnt willing to manually override the declined 
application until the adverse data was removed. Its not for this service to decide whether a 
lender should lend, or to who. Lenders are generally free to set their lending criteria, which 
includes how they use credit scoring. Whilst an underwriter couldve considered the 
application on its own, HSBC didnt allow this as part of its process. And, this is a decision 
its entitled to make. 
As Ive said, it seems to me that this application was most likely declined due to the error by 
the other credit provider. This wasnt a mistake by HSBC. And HBSC was entitled to wait for 
that error to be rectified before reconsidering the application. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs H decided not to wait and move to another lender, and because of 
this, the ERC was due. I know Mr and Mrs Hs and their broker feel very strongly about this 
matter, but I dont think HSBCs made a mistake here. So, Im not going to ask it to refund 
the ERC.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman