DRN-2557224
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited dealt with a 
claim made under his private and public hire commercial vehicle policy. 
What happened
Mr M reported an incident to his insurer, Markerstudy. A requirement of the policy was for his 
vehicle to have a dashcam. Mr M said he was at a box junction waiting to turn right. He said 
a driver coming from the opposite direction flashed his lights to allow him to turn. However, 
as he did, the other driver drove forward and the vehicles collided. 
Mr M asked Markerstudy several times to obtain the dashcam footage from his car before it 
was wiped but they didnt. Markerstudy settled the claim as a fault claim against Mr M. Mr M 
was also charged with dangerous driving. 
Mr M complained to Markerstudy. He was unhappy with its decision and the poor way it 
handled the claim. He believes if the dashcam footage had been available, it would have 
shown he wasnt at fault. Mr M said Markerstudy didnt provide a replacement vehicle while 
his was being repaired, even though this is a term of the policy. 
Markerstudy accepted that it had failed to obtain the dashcam footage and at times provided 
a poor service. It paid Mr M £150 compensation. But it said due to the circumstances of the 
incident as Mr M described, it would have settled it the same way even if the footage was 
available. 
Markerstudy said it offered Mr M the option to have a replacement vehicle with their vehicle 
hire agent, but he refused and chose to use an alternative. So Markerstudy said it wouldnt 
reimburse Mr M for his hire vehicle costs as it told him these costs wouldnt be met if he 
didnt use their preferred agent. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the only reason he 
sourced available hire was because he was advised there was no availability in his area. 
Our investigator explained that we dont decide liability. But she considered the fact that Mr 
M was charged with dangerous driving - and while she couldnt speculate on the outcome, 
she didnt think the compensation Markerstudy paid for failing to obtain the footage  a key 
piece of evidence  was enough. 
She considered the call notes provided by Markerstudy and what Mr M said in relation to a 
replacement vehicle. On balance, she thought Mr Ms testimony was more plausible as it 
didnt make sense for him to refuse the offer of replacement hire which was free under his 
policy in order to choose an alternative hire agent at his own cost. 
So she recommended Markerstudy increase the compensation it paid by a further £150. She 
thought it should refund Mr M the costs he paid to install a dashcam as a requirement under 
the policy. And she recommended Markerstudy reimburse Mr M for the costs of a 
replacement vehicle for the duration set out under the policy. 
Mr M accepted the investigators view. Markerstudy didnt agree. It says call recordings show 
it offered Mr M the use of their preferred agent for a replacement vehicle, but he refused. It 
said the requirement for a dashcam is for insurance purposes and not to help a customer 
defend themselves against a driving conviction. 
Our investigator explained to Markerstudy that we hadnt received the call recordings, and 
some of its earlier emails. Markerstudy said it sent the recordings again, but again the 
investigator said we havent received them. She asked Markerstudy to provide call transcript 
notes, but we havent received them.
So on the evidence available, the investigators view remained unchanged. And as 
Markerstudy didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the incident arent in dispute. And Markerstudy accepts that it failed to 
obtain the dashcam footage while investigating the claim. So the remaining issues for me to 
decide are whether Markerstudy reached its decision about liability reasonably and did 
enough to put things right for its failings. And whether Markerstudy acted reasonably and in 
line with the policy when Mr M asked for a replacement hire vehicle. 
As the investigator explained, we dont decide liability as this is a role for the courts. 
Markerstudy has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This 
term says Markerstudy as the insurer can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
In this case Markerstudy accepts that it failed to obtain a key piece of evidence which was 
dashcam footage from Mr Ms vehicle. I understand how strongly Mr M feels about 
Markerstudys failure here and the impact it has had on him. 
Markerstudy explained that even if the dashcam footage had been reviewed it wouldnt have 
made a difference to its decision. It said the onus is on the person pulling out to ensure their 
path is clear. They said it could be interpreted that if the other driver flashed their lights, this 
might have been to warn Mr M they were approaching - and not that it was safe for him to 
go. Markerstudy obtained a copy of the police report and asked if there were any 
independent witnesses. 
Based on the information available, I cant safely conclude that the outcome of the claim  or 
the charge for dangerous driving  would have been different had the footage been 
available. But I think Markerstudys failure to obtain an important piece of evidence caused 
Mr M significant distress. And so I agree with the investigators recommendations to put 
things right here. Markerstudy says the requirement for a dashcam is for insurance 
purposes. However, in this case Mr Ms insurer failed to utilise it when a claim was made. So 
I think Markerstudy should increase the compensation it paid Mr M from £150 to £300 and 
refund him the costs he paid to install a dashcam to meet the terms of the policy. 
Our investigator explained to Markerstudy that we havent received calls they say they sent 
to us where replacement vehicle hire was discussed with Mr M. Our investigator asked 
Markerstudy to provide transcript notes as an alternative, but these havent been received. 
So my decision is based on the available evidence provided by both parties.Mr Ms policy with Markerstudy says it will do the following, 
subject to availability, provide a replacement taxi for you to use for up to 7 calendar 
days whilst your own taxi is not legally driveable following an accident which was 
your fault.
Markerstudys notes show the following entries: rejected offer of hire from (cab hire 
company name).ph (policyholder) has a friend that can provide hire 
Mr M was advised that he wouldnt be covered for any replacement cab hire he obtains 
himself. 
Mr M says that there was no available taxi hire through Markerstudy and this was the reason 
why he sourced a replacement hire vehicle himself. He said if they had offered him a 
replacement hire taxi, he would have taken it as he needed to work.
Markerstudy says they didnt look into whether their preferred agent had an available taxi as 
Mr M refused the offer to use them. It says the offer is subject to availability in any event.
Without access to the call recordings, Ive decided what I think on the balance of 
probabilities most likely happened from the available information. After discussing the 
possibility of Markerstudy sourcing a replacement hire vehicle for Mr M, it seems more 
plausible that he would take up this offer for free  at least initially to check for availability  
before deciding to reject the offer and use an alternative at his own cost. 
So based on the available information, I think a fairer outcome is for Markerstudy to cover 
the costs Mr M paid for a replacement hire vehicle for the available duration set out under 
the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Increase the compensation it pays Mr M from £150 to £300 in total.
Provide a refund for the fitting charge of the dashcam.
Refund the costs of a replacement hire vehicle Mr M paid subject to proof for 
the duration set out under the policy.
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman