DRN-2874629
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt cancel direct debits on his 
account.
What happened
Two direct debits were paid from Mr Bs account. One was for £138.58 paid each month 
between April 2020 and August 2020. One was for £5 paid each month between February 
2020 and September 2020. 
Mr B complained that hed written to Barclays in December 2019 asking them to cancel all 
withdrawals, but they didnt do this. His circumstances meant he didnt have access to a 
phone or internet banking and couldnt visit a branch. The direct debits had only been 
cancelled in August and September 2020  after he complained.
Barclays said they had no record of Mr B asking to cancel the direct debits. They cancelled 
the payments after he complained. They sent him claim forms which he could complete  so 
they could ask for the beneficiaries for the money to be paid back. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said 
Barclays confirmed they didnt have any record of Mr B asking for the debits to be cancelled 
in December 2019. She saw a letter from Mr B dated June 2020  but she didnt see this as 
a request to cancel the debits. Barclays had confirmed that theyd been cancelled in 
September 2020. As of March 2021, Mr B hadnt returned the forms which would enable 
Barclays to ask for the money back.
Mr B asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. He said it was clear that his 
letter in June 2020 should have been interpreted as meaning to cancel all payments out of 
his accounts, including direct debits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint. He says that in December 2019 he asked Barclays to 
cancel all payments out of his account. Because of his circumstances, he didnt have access 
to his accounts either by phone or internet banking. And I can see that his statements were 
going to his old address until August 2020. So  he wouldnt have seen what was going on 
on his account.
Weve asked Barclays about what happened. Theyve provided a lot of Mr Bs letters  but 
sadly, they cant locate any instruction to cancel direct debit payments in December 2019. 
Ive seen Mr Bs letter dated 10 June 2020. It says, please ensure that there have been no 
withdrawals since 4/12/2019 and send a statement so I can see the updated balance. For 
me  this does suggest he didnt expect to see there were any withdrawals since December 
2019. But also  its not an instruction to stop payments either. But  in any case, the key 
point in looking at Mr Bs complaint is that Barclays have no record of his request which he 
says he sent to them in December 2019.
I can see the two direct debits were paid on a monthly basis from February or April 2020 to 
August 2020. And theyve then been cancelled. Barclays have sent to him forms to complete 
to see if they can reclaim the money back for him  through the direct debit indemnity 
scheme. But I have to say that with the passage of time, Barclays may not be successful 
here. But  Id encourage Mr B to complete the forms and get them to Barclays.
So  while this will be disappointing for Mr B - without the evidence that Mr B wrote to 
Barclays in December 2019, I cant conclude that Barclays did anything wrong. And 
therefore, I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman