DRN-3581849
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Equifax Limited recorded incorrect information on her credit file, 
which impacted her buying a home.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss P was looking to move home, but was declined for a new mortgage 
with her existing lender. The lender had checked her Equifax file, so she checked it too. She 
found that Equifax had recorded her address wrong and so key information was missing, like 
her credit accounts and electoral roll data.
Miss P complained, and gathered a large amount of information for Equifax to help them fix 
her file. A few days later, they had amended her address, and her credit accounts and 
electoral roll information were on her file. They then got the mortgage lender to remove the 
hard search. Equifax apologised and offered Miss P £120 compensation.
However, Miss P said she was facing an early repayment charge of over £700, as she was 
now going with a different lender to the one she used for her existing mortgage. She felt 
Equifax had been unhelpful, shed had to do a lot of work, shed lost a buyer, and shed had 
sleepless nights.
Miss P also disputed a past inactivity marker on a current account, a soft search, and 
information on the customer-facing dashboard. Equifax raised disputes on her behalf, and 
explained that only Miss P could see her soft searches or the dashboard.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They spoke to the existing mortgage 
lender, who confirmed theyd revisited the application after Equifax fixed the address, but the 
outcome was the same. They also confirmed that it was Miss P who decided to change 
lender. So our investigator didnt think Equifax needed to cover the early repayment charge.  
They did think Equifax should offer a further £100 compensation  bringing it to £220 total  
for all the stress theyd caused.
Miss P didnt agree. She felt £400 compensation would be fairer given the number of errors, 
and given the effort shed put in. She asked for her case to be reviewed afresh, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand why this matter has been so stressful for Miss P, and why she 
then complained. Being in a house buying chain is stressful enough at the best of times, so 
having ones credit file be incorrect will inevitably add to that.
With that said, its important I clarify what Ive found Equifax to be responsible for.
For example, I understand that Miss P was unhappy with an N marker for one month on a 
current account. I should explain that this marker simply means the account was not being 
used during that month. It was not a missed payment marker as she thought, and was 
unlikely to have had a significant effect. More importantly, from what I can see the marker 
was added by that bank, not by Equifax, and it was that bank who ended up changing it. And 
I cannot fairly hold Equifax responsible for that banks error.
Similarly, I understand that Miss P was unhappy with a soft search from a debt collector. But 
it looks like that soft search was valid, not an error. And unlike hard searches, soft searches 
do not show up on credit checks and would not have affected Miss Ps mortgage application 
at all anyway. Theyre just for Miss P to see, so she can view a record of whos been looking 
at her file. So theres nothing for Equifax to compensate there.
And while Miss Ps dashboard mistakenly said she had missed payments, that dashboard is 
also something only Miss P can see. Lenders dont see the dashboard, they see the raw 
data on ones credit file. So again, this wont have affected her applications at all. It was just 
an error with the customer-facing part of the website.
Of course, all parties accept that Equifax made an error in recording Miss Ps address 
wrong, meaning her credit file was missing lots of important information.
In terms of how this affected Miss P, I can see that her mortgage lender revisited her 
application after the address data was fixed and her accounts and electoral roll information 
were showing on her file again. And they still found it was a decline. Miss P also says they 
told her it was highly likely to decline even after her file was fixed. And Miss P then chose to 
go with another lender of her own accord. So it seems most likely that even if Equifax had 
never got Miss Ps address wrong, she still would have needed to go with another lender, 
and still would have paid the early repayment charge. So I cannot fairly hold Equifax 
responsible for the early repayment charge in this case.
I do find that Equifax are responsible for the distress Miss P felt in finding her credit file was 
so wrong, for the time and effort she put in to help them fix it, and for her related call costs. 
I understand this matter caused Miss P some serious stress, again not least given the 
context of the home buying chain.
Ive also kept in mind that  while in part thanks to Miss Ps efforts  Equifax did act quickly 
to fix the errors they were responsible for, and to raise disputes with the other businesses. 
Not least given this was over the new year period. Indeed, the delay was only a few days, 
and given the bank holidays, the home-buying process wouldve been unlikely to proceed 
much during that time anyway. Im also glad to see that when the mortgage lender initially 
declined to remove the hard search, Equifax didnt take no for an answer and pursued the 
lender until they agreed to remove it. And Ive kept in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints, and not to punish businesses or to issue fines.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case and our guidelines for compensation, 
I agree with our investigator that £220 is fair to put right what Equifax got wrong here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part, and direct Equifax 
Limited to pay her £220 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman