DRN-1464481
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) handling of his 
home insurance claims.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr W discovered evidence of three leaks in his home (in the bathroom, the 
kitchen and the hallway). Mr W contacted Lloyds, who arranged for a loss adjuster to inspect 
the damage. Lloyds also said as there were three separate leaks, these would need to be 
treated as separate claims and incur separate excesses. Mr W felt this was unfair, as the 
leaks had all been discovered at the same time, but said he was only pursuing claims for the 
kitchen and the bathroom. 
The loss adjuster subsequently arranged for another contractor to carry out some testing for 
asbestos in Mr Ws property. Further testing was carried out and asbestos was confirmed to 
be present under the bathroom flooring. Lloyds contractor wasnt licenced to undertake the 
removal of asbestos. Mr W agreed to obtain his own quotes for the works so a cash 
settlement could be arranged, as hed indicated hed prefer to use his own contractor to 
carry out the repairs in the kitchen and bathroom. 
Mr W felt he was left to arrange these quotes on his own and essentially decide what works 
needed to be carried out as part of the claim. Lloyds say Mr W was provided with a schedule 
of works, which set out the works needed to repair the damage. Mr W also says it was 
difficult to get responses from the contractors hed contacted for quotes and was unhappy at 
the time hed had to take off work to facilitate the providing of these quotes. However, Mr W 
was able to provide Lloyds with quotes for the work. 
In early October, Lloyds paid Mr W just over £15,000 to settle both claims. This included an 
allowance for food and alternative accommodation while the works were being carried out, 
along with the asbestos removal. However, Mr W felt the cash settlement was inadequate to 
carry out the works in his home. He referred his complaint to us, and also said it was unfair 
that upon renewal of his policy, the excess for escape of water claims had increased to 
£500. Lloyds said this had applied to all customers, but the lower excess applied to Mr Ws 
claims. It said explained the rationale behind the cash settlement. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint, but didnt uphold it, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address the point about the separate excesses first. Like our investigator, Im persuaded 
that Lloyds was entitled to apply an excess for the separate claims. These are separate 
claims that have been accepted therefore an excess applies to each claim. Mr Ws policy 
terms explained the excess as:
If you make a claim under more than one cover for the same event (for instance, for a flood 
that damages both your buildings and contents) we will only charge one excess, which will 
be the highest excess amount.
I can see why Mr W might consider the leaks should have been considered one claim, as 
they were discovered at the same time. But they were in different parts of the property and 
needed different repairs. Im satisfied Lloyds has acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy in treating these as separate claims and is entitled to charge an excess for each 
claim. 
In addition to this, I can understand why Mr W might be frustrated at the higher excess that 
was presented to him at renewal. Lloyds has said this increase has applied to all its 
customers, so its not something that has just impacted Mr W. That being said, I can see why 
the timing of this might be unsettling for Mr W. However, Ive not seen
 anything to suggest hes been targeted in any way and, when his policy is due to be 
renewed, hell be able to consider whether Lloyds remains the right insurer for his needs. 
Ill turn now to the main part of Mr Ws complaint, which is primarily Lloyds handling of the 
claim. He says its taken too long, the service he received caused him additional worry and 
the value of the cash settlement was too low given the works hes had to carry out.  
Mr W reported the claim in early August, with an initial inspection carried out a week later 
and a more detailed one carried out a week after that. At the end of August, Mr W needed to 
obtain quotes that needed to include the removal of asbestos. I understand that Mr W 
experienced some frustration with the contractors he asked to provide quotes. However, like 
our investigator, I dont think Lloyds can be held responsible for this. Lloyds had indicated its 
contractors would carry out the majority of work, however Mr W chose to use his own 
contractors. If he had not felt comfortable with this, he could have asked Lloyds to send their 
own contractors to carry out the works, which I think would likely have reduced some of the 
inconvenience and worry he experienced.  
And while I see Mr W was unhappy with the service he received from the loss adjuster, I 
dont share his concerns. Its not often that claims of this nature can be instantly resolved. Mr 
W said there were occasions where he hadnt been able to reach the loss adjuster and had 
to wait for a call back. I can understand Mr W had some questions about the claim he was 
looking for the loss adjuster to answer, and sometimes this took longer than he would have 
liked. I dont think the fact Mr W didnt always receive an immediate answer means the 
overall service Mr W received from the loss adjuster fell below the standard Id expect. As 
Ive said, claims of this nature arent often settled instantly. Given the claim itself appeared to 
be settled just over two months after it was made, I dont consider that timeframe to be 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Lloyds made a cash settlement of £15,000 made in early October. Mr W feels the amount 
left him with a shortfall to carry out the works based on the quotes from his contractors. Like 
our investigator Ive considered the quotes Mr W provided and reached the same 
conclusion. Im not persuaded they provide enough detail to show Lloyds underestimated the 
cost of the repairs needed. Lloyds considered the quotes from Mr Ws contractors and has 
showed us where it considered the costs from Mr Ws contractors to be excessive. 
In addition to this, Mr W hasnt been able to provide evidence to show what he actually paid 
to have the works carried out. He says some of the contractors he used were tradesmen and 
didnt provide a breakdown of costs, and he did some of the work himself. However, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds has taken appropriate steps to put Mr W back in 
the position he would have been in before the claims. 
Having carefully considered the information available to me, Im unable to conclude Lloyds 
has acted unfairly in its handling of the claim, and Im not intending to direct it to take any 
further steps to put things right for Mr W. While I realise this wont be the answer Mr W is 
hoping for, I hope he can understand why Ive reached this decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Daniel Tinkler
Ombudsman