DRN-3035723
The complaint
Miss K complains that Nationwide Building Society did not close down her account and this
has resulted in the account defaulting and showing on her credit file.
What happened
Miss K had an account with Nationwide. She said that in Spring 2017 she requested to close
her account via the webchat facility on Nationwides website. Miss K says that the agent
confirmed they were able to complete her request and the account was closed, any
remaining credit would be sent via a cheque and that no further transactions would show on
her account. Miss K moved address in March 2017 but didnt update her address with
Nationwide as she thought the account would be closed. As the cheque would be for a low
amount then she wasnt concerned whether she received this or not.
Miss K applied for a mortgage in 2021. But the application was declined as her credit file
was showing a default from Nationwide. Miss K contacted Nationwide to find out why this
was. She says Nationwide told her that her account was in credit in 2017 but the account
hadnt been closed and overdraft charges the following month had taken her into an
overdraft. Miss K complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide said they were unable to locate the webchat which Miss K says she had with
them in 2017. Nationwide said they tried to contact her by phone and post but as they had
been unable to reach her, they defaulted the account in 2019 and the debt was written off.
They said they were unable to remove this entry to her credit file as they had reported this
accurately.
Nationwide also said that they had listened to Miss Ks phone call with the call handler on 7
May 2021 and the level of service she received wasnt as they would expect, so they offered
Miss K £50 compensation for this. Miss K rejected the offer and brought her complaint to our
service.
During our investigations, it was discovered that Miss K had brought her account into credit
by 12 July 2017 and when the previous overdraft charges were debited from her account on
28 July 2017, she was still showing a credit balance.
Miss K has said that instead of Spring 2017 as originally thought, she mustve used the
webchat facility with Nationwide around July/August 2017 as she had ensured that her
account had been in credit before trying to close her account.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ks complaint. She said that as the webchat wasnt available,
then she believed that Miss K was told that the account would be closed. Our investigator
also said that while Nationwide had sent Miss K several letters informing her of the arrears
position, Miss K hadnt notified Nationwide of her change of address as she thought the
account had been closed. She acknowledged that although Nationwide had written off the
debt, they should remove the adverse credit data from Miss Ks credit file.
Nationwide did not accept the view of our investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to
review the complaint. In summary they said that Nationwide wouldnt have actioned an
account closure via a webchat request in 2017 (based on the procedures they had in place
at that time). They said pending charges were present at the time the member stated she
thought the account had been closed, this in itself would have prevented the account from
being closed as they cant close accounts that had pending charges present as a balance is
owed.
Nationwide also said its likely that Miss K was told that there were steps to be completed
(i.e. credit the account with funds to cover the pending charges) and as this was not done by
Miss K, the account wasnt closed and therefore remained open. Nationwide said that Miss K
had changed her address in March 2017, but she hadnt notified them. They said that they
would expect either Miss K to redirect her post to her new address or they would expect the
new occupant of the previous property to return the mail to Nationwide so they could place a
returned mail indicator on her account.
Nationwide said its not unreasonable to expect Miss K to have been aware there were
pending charges on the account for being overdrawn on the account for some days in July
2017 and that these would need to be paid even though she had brought the account into
credit during the month of July.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Nationwide have been unable to retrieve the webchat its difficult for me to know exactly
what was said and how things were put during it. Nationwide have said that they need
certain pieces of information to retrieve the webchat if they hold it. But its been so long since
Miss K had the webchat with Nationwide that understandably she cant remember the
specific details of who she spoke to and when. It would be helpful if I could have read the
webchat messages here. But this doesnt mean that Nationwide has acted wrongly here.
Ive considered the events leading up to the webchat that Miss K had with Nationwide. One
of the main issues here is that Miss K didnt inform Nationwide of a change of address when
she moved property. I asked Miss K why this was. She said that she did not update the
address as she knew she would be clearing the balance and closing the account very soon.
She also said that she knew she could access all of her statements online at the time.
I understand why Miss Ks didnt update her address at the time. But the terms and
conditions of the account state you must tell us straight away if you change your personal
details. Im persuaded that if Miss K had done that then she would have noticed that the
account wasnt closed and that arrears on the account were building up. There was over four
months from when she moved address to when she said she had the webchat with
Nationwide. This is a long period of time to not inform Nationwide of the change of her
address as she was required to under the terms of the account.
Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Miss K was told that the account would
be closed for her on the webchat. I say this for a number of reasons which Ill explain. Firstly,
Nationwide have confirmed that a webchat agent would not have the ability to close Miss Ks
account via that channel, so I would find it unlikely that they would explicitly tell Miss K
something which they know they couldnt do. Secondly, Miss K had pending charges on the
account. So even if the webchat agent could close the account, they would be aware that the
account couldnt be closed based on pending charges yet to be applied.
Im also persuaded that it would be reasonable for Miss K to be aware that she had pendingcharges. I say this as she was often using her overdraft. So she would be aware of a page of
her statement which states that the pending charges would be debited from her account 28
days from the date of her statement. So although her statements show she brought her
balance to a credit position, they also show that Miss K added £62 to her account on 28 July
2017 to cover the overdraft charges from the previous month.
So I would expect Miss K to be aware that she would need to cover the overdraft charges
from the current statement period before she would be able to close her account. This is also
confirmed in the terms and conditions of the account where it states, if you close your
account, any money you owe us (including the payment of interest) will continue to apply
until you have repaid all of that money to us.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ks account has a section about closing an account. These
state that Miss K can end this agreement at any time by sending (them) a secure message
on the internet bank or in any branch and you must repay all the amounts you are
responsible for under this agreement. Nationwide have confirmed that a secure message on
their internet banking is a different facility to the webchat that Miss K says she used. And
they are able to trace these types of messages. But Nationwide have confirmed to me that
they have no secure messages on file for Miss K. They also said that this isnt a live chat
facility as messages would be responded to within two days unlike the live webchat facility
which is different. So Im satisfied that Miss K did not send Nationwide a secure message
and that it was the webchat facility she used.
Im persuaded what is likely to have happened is that Miss K had a live webchat where she
discussed what she would need to do to close her account. I think its likely the agent will
have explained that she would need to bring her account into credit  which Miss K did. And
to ensure that any pending charges were covered. As I previously mentioned Miss K
credited her account to cover the previous months charges. So its likely that she may have
thought that her account was brought up to date. But Im not persuaded that she will have
been told several incorrect pieces of information from the webchat agent (e.g. that they
would close her account through that channel, that she wouldnt have to pay any more
charges etc).
Ultimately, Miss K didnt attempt to close her account through the methods that the terms
and conditions stated she must do so. Nationwide met their obligations by sending Miss K
letters of her arrears position and they said they had tried to contact her by phone. And Miss
K would still have been able to log into her online banking to see these statements or to
check if her account had been closed if she believed it would be. So it would be unfair to
hold Nationwide responsible for Miss K not receiving the letters as they had sent them to the
registered address. So, based on the balance of probabilities as Ive already explained, Im
satisfied that Nationwide did not tell Miss K they would close her account down through the
webchat facility.
I must stress to Miss K that I havent took this decision lightly as I understand this may
impact on her ability to buy her first home. But I havent seen any errors from Nationwide in
how theyve registered the default. So I dont intend to ask them to remove this entry from
her credit file.
Nationwide have said that the level of service she had from their call agent wasnt what they
would expect. In recognition of this they have offered Miss K £50. So I think it would be fair
for Nationwide to pay her £50 compensation. But I dont intend to ask them to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Nationwide responded and said they didnt have anything further to add to the 
case. Miss K did not respond to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman