DRN-3690800
The complaint
Mr D complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it gave him loans that he
couldnt afford to repay.
He is also unhappy with the way MoneyBoat treated him after he told it about his financial
difficulties.
What happened
Mr D took three loans from MoneyBoat and an overview of the lending relationship is
outlined below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £300.00 27/09/2019 21/10/2019 6 £89.32
2 £500.00 24/10/2019 15/11/2019 6 £152.70
3 £800.00 18/11/2019 23/06/2022 6 £251.91
Based on the statement of account provided to the Financial Ombudsman in seems that 
Mr Ds final payment of £90 was sufficient to clear the outstanding balance that was due.
Following Mr Ds complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him with a final response letter outlining why
it wasnt going to uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and she didnt uphold it. She said the checks
carried out were proportionate before each loan was approved and there was no indication
these loans were unsustainable for Mr D. She also thought that Mr D had been
treated fairly when MoneyBoat agreed to a repayment plan.
Mr D didnt agree with the outcome. He said the adjudicator hadnt reviewed the emails
that he had given to the Financial Ombudsman about what happened after the final loan was
approved.
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement was reached the case was passed for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint in part. A copy of my provisional findings follow this in italics and smaller font and 
forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ds
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr Ds complaint has been dealt with in two parts, firstly dealing with what happened when
the loans were issued and secondly what happened when Mr D had problems repaying the
third loan.
Unaffordable Lending
In order to repay these loans, Mr D for loan one had to make repayments of £82.32; for loan
two he was contracted to pay around £152.70 and for loan three £251.91. Therefore, it was
these sums that MoneyBoat needed to see that Mr D was likely to be able to afford. In order
to do this, and as Ive set out above, MoneyBoat was required to carry out a proportionate
check.
For these loans Mr D declared income of between £1,840 and £1,860. He also declared he
had between £980 and £1,155 a month for expenditure. MoneyBoat following its credit
checks increased Mr Ds expenditure by between £360 and £460 per month for each loan.
Based solely on the income and expenditure information gathered MoneyBoat wouldvebeen confident that Mr D couldve afforded his commitments.
Mr D repaid both loans one and two earlier than MoneyBoat had anticipated but there wasnt
anything to suggest that Mr D was in financial difficulties at the time. So, the fact these loans
were repaid much sooner, isnt in my view sufficient to uphold his complaint about these
loans.
For each of these loans MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has given us the
results of those searches and Ive considered these. Having looked at these results I also
dont think the credit checks results which Ive seen wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have
either carried out further checks or led it to the conclusion that these loans would be
unsustainable for Mr D.
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr D
had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
MoneyBoat to have relied on the information Mr D had provided such as the income and
expenditure figures.
I also dont yet think it had reached the stage where MoneyBoat needed to verify the
information Mr D was providing such as through bank statements and there wasnt anything
to suggest that these loans were unsustainable for him.
So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about any of these loans.
Repayment of the final loan
Overall, the adjudicator said that MoneyBoat had acted reasonably when dealing with
Mr D. However, Mr D disagreed. He said, he did miss a payment, but he was in contact with
MoneyBoat to let them know what was going on.
Ive taken a look at the email chain Mr D has provided along with the details of the contact
between himself and MoneyBoat which it has provided.
MoneyBoat emailed Mr D on 20 December 2019 when a scheduled repayment wasnt made.
Mr D responded on the same day to explain hell have the money by Christmas and hell
then arrange for the full balance to be repaid. MoneyBoat acknowledged this and gave him a
settlement figure.
The payment wasnt made and as a result MoneyBoat applied a £15 late fee  which is in
line with the terms and conditions that Mr D agreed to when he took the loan  condition
12(a). Given the information MoneyBoat had at the time, I dont consider it unreasonable that
this fee was charged. Firstly, because MoneyBoat said it would be charged and secondly, it
has been applied in line with the terms and conditions.
On 30 December 2019, Mr D emailed MoneyBoat to tell them he was in serious financial
distress at this moment which I have also made clear. I offered to make payments of £50 a
month and request you freeze the charges and interest until I am back on my feet.
It is worth saying here that this is the first time, as far as I can see, that Mr D made
MoneyBoat aware that he was having financial difficulties. MoneyBoat explained to Mr D that
as no payments had been made towards the final loan hed needed to complete an income
and expenditure form.
I suspect, MoneyBoat asked Mr D to do this in order to make sure that he was in a position
to afford the monthly amount he said he could repay. Whatever, the reason for doing so,
MoneyBoats action at this point in time is, in my view reasonable as it was going to try and
establish, with Mr D what he could afford to pay it on a monthly basis.Mr D returned the income and expenditure form to MoneyBoat on 6 January 2020 and
MoneyBoat responded on 7 January 2020 to enquire about how much Mr D maybe able to
afford each month.
Then on 14 January 2020, a further email was received by Mr D about another missed
payment and Mr D confirmed, he could make a payment on 17 January 2020 as he couldnt
pay on 14 January 2020 due to not having any money. He provided further information about
a hospital stay and how he will be returning to work shortly.
There were then further emails on 14 January to do with the outstanding balance  which
Mr D wasnt sure was correct because he had previously asked for the interest to be
stopped. The agent who he was in contact with confirmed the interest was capped.
But a three-month repayment of £40 per month was then agreed at this point, to be reviewed
again in April 2020.
On 17 March 2020 Mr D emailed MoneyBoat because the £40 was too much for him to pay
and instead offered to pay £25 per month. MoneyBoat needed further information from him
in order to understand his financial position.
It then appears in April 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic the repayment schedule
was extended with a further review due in June 2020.
On 15 June 2020 an email was received by Mr D which outlined the plan could be extended
but further information would need to be sent. This was sent after Mr D told MoneyBoat he
had no income and he wasnt working but could manage to pay £25 per month. A new three month 
plan of £25 was agreed.
Mr D then emailed MoneyBoat at the end of July 2020 to tell them that he could afford the
£25 per month but this was needed for a period of 12 months. MoneyBoat asked for another
income and expenditure form.
Then on 21 August 2020 a further email was sent, Mr D made it clear he wasnt working and
he can only afford to pay £25 per month. He also at this point, reiterated that he was going to
take the case to the I am writing to the Ombudsman today to complain about the way you
are dealing with me and that my loans were unaffordable
In November 2020, a similar series of emails were sent Mr D wanted a repayment plan of
£25 per month but MoneyBoat wanted an income and expenditure form to be completed in
order to see what Mr Ds financial position was.
Mr D then offered to pay £35 per month but only if MoneyBoat freezes the interest, fees and
charges. However, the agent explained the agreement couldnt be put into place because of
the arrears on the account of over £1,200. But Mr D, could if he wishes make the payments
through an electronic payment.
On 21 January 2021, MoneyBoat sent an email which said, that it had tried to help Mr D and
as no agreement could be reached and the account was significantly overdrawn, MoneyBoat
may start, the process of starting to register a default on his credit file.
No further contact appears to have been made until June 2021, when Mr D was emailed
about the arrears. He disputed that MoneyBoat had done all it couldve done when it had
cancelled the payment plan that he had agreed to.
At the end of July 2021, Mr D said he was getting help from his parents and would be able to
pay £150 per month. The first payment was made on 26 July 2021 as Mr D said. I can see
that £150 was paid each month through to February 2022 when Mr D paid a slightly reduced
amount of £90.Looking at the loan agreement, Mr D borrowed £800 and was due to repay a total of
£1,511.36 assuming the payments had been made on time and in accordance with the terms
and conditions. The statement of account shows that as of March 2022 Mr D had repaid
MoneyBoat a total of £1,600 towards this loan.
So, as a result of the repayment plans and missed payment it added an extra charge of £15
in December 2019. I think this was reasonable given what MoneyBoat was aware off at the
time. As well as additional interest in order to make the total repayable of £1,600.
In total Mr D has now repaid £1,600 towards a £800 loan. This was the maximum he
couldve been charged under the FCAs cost cap which has been put in place for this type of
product.
In order to see whether this extra interest was fairly charged, I have also considered the
industry guidance and Id have expected MoneyBoat to follow the guidance when treating a
customer with forbearance. The relevant section is CONC 7.3.4 at the time of these loans
says:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and
due consideration.
CONC then goes on to provide some examples of what treating a customer with forbearance
may look like. CONC 7.3.5 says:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further
interest or charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of
financial difficulties and is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or
is only able to make token repayments, where in either case the level of
debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments
unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a
customer who demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts
would mean not being able to meet the customer's priority debts or other
essential living expenses (such as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council
tax, food bills and utility bills).
I can see from the statement of account provided that Mr D made monthly repayments
towards the balance of loan 3 every month from January 2020  October 2020 paying
between £25 and £40 per month. As far as I can see MoneyBoat was happy to accept these
repayments towards paying down the money he owed.
There is then a break in repayments  because MoneyBoat appeared to not want to accept
any further payments under a formal repayment plan. But did give Mr D the option to make
these payments, electronically. Payments then restarted in July 2021 and Mr D made his
payments each month until March 2022.
Ive also considered the notes MoneyBoat has provided in order to see what it knew aboutMr Ds financial situation and at what point in time this was. Looking at the timeline above, its
clear that Mr D encounter difficulties fairly quickly after taking out the final loan. Mr D initially
said that he was having short term difficulties, so it was reasonable, for MoneyBoat to have
relied upon what it was being told.
It wasnt until the end of December 2019 that Mr D told MoneyBoat about the extent of the
difficulties that he was having and it was clear given the emails initially that MoneyBoat was
willing to work with and agree a repayment plan with Mr D  which is what it did do.
Whatever the reason was, I dont think given what MoneyBoat knew about his circumstances
that any late fees or extra interest should be charged here given that CONC says
consideration should be given for waiving or cancelling further interest.
I can then see in the emails, that agents then in effect refused to enter into a repayment plan
with Mr D  and while he was signposted to other third party organisations no further help
and support appears to have been offered.
I acknowledge that this is a difficult situation for both parties. Mr D is clearly wanting to try
and pay down what was owed, but this needed to be done in a manner that wouldnt push
him into further financial difficulties.
While, MoneyBoat, fairly in its view, provided Mr D with a loan that needed to be repaid, but
it had to do so in a manner that was treating Mr D fairly. And the guidance is quite clear
that MoneyBoat needs to take steps to help Mr D.
I dont think, allowing Mr D to repay more than the contractual amount that is due was fair or
reasonable, especially when it was on notice that he was having financial difficulties.
In summary, MoneyBoat knew of Mr Ds financial problems early on after loan three was
advanced. I agree, initially that it treated him fairly by agreeing to a payment plan. However,
despite knowing of Mr Ds financial problems which seem to have started with a hospital stay
and then developed to be affected by the pandemic.
Ive thought about whether MoneyBoat needed to consider the specific guidance that was
issued to lenders to help consumers affected by the pandemic  but as Mr Ds repayments
problems started several months prior to the guidance coming in, I think it was entitled to
carry on as it did, which was at the time agreeing to repayments plans with
Mr D.
But, given the wording in CONC and the requirement to treat Mr D fairly and with
forbearance I dont consider the extra interest and charges added to be fair or in any way
helpful to Mr D  these extra charges have increased his overall indebtedness during a time
of financial hardship.
In effect, MoneyBoat has penalised him for needing a repayment plan and therefore asking
him to pay even more to it. I dont think is fair or right in effect penalising him for needing a
repayment plan by charging more interest and adding fees is in line with the guidance.
I think what wouldve been fairer, in the circumstances of this case, wouldve been to have
capped Mr Ds total cost to MoneyBoat to the cost of the loan. So, anything above the amount that 
Mr D wouldve repaid under the credit agreement should be refunded (expect for the £15 late fee
which was fairly charged given what MoneyBoat knew about Mr Ds circumstances).
I also consider, given what Ive seen in the notes and the way that Mr D was treated by
MoneyBoat that there has been a level of distress and inconvenience caused. Especially,
when Mr D was willing to set up a repayment plan with MoneyBoat and it refused to accept
any payments and then to receive emails saying that Mr D had been helped as much as
possible without any further support or guidance being suggested. Or any conversation
about what MoneyBoat may have considered an acceptable amount towards the repayment
plan.Its clear that given everything that was going on Mr D wouldve been having a difficult time
and the help and support offered by MoneyBoat didnt in my view entirely help the situation.
Mr D says hes been treated unfairly and I agree with him, not just that I do feel that hes
been caused additional distress and inconvenience as a result and Ive outlined below what I
think MoneyBoat should pay in recognition of that.
Im intending to partly uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat
needs to do in order to put things right for him.
Response to the provisional decision
In response to the provisional decision, both Mr D and MoneyBoat were asked to provide 
any further comments or evidence as soon as possible but no later than 7 September 2022. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision. 
Mr D emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service letting us know he had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr D didnt have anything further to add and MoneyBoat didnt respond to the provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I was intending to make, and which 
were outlined in the provisional decision. I still think MoneyBoat didnt treat Mr D fairly once it 
was told about his financial difficulties. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for Mr D. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right MoneyBoat should carry out the following but keeping in mind that
I consider the £15 late fee was charged fairly and reasonably;
refund any interest, charges or fees applied to loan 3 above the contractaul amount 
that Mr D was due to pay (£1,511.36) as well as the £15 late fee.
To this amount MoneyBoat should add 8%* simple interest from the time of the
overpayments became due to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D directly £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right for Mr D as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman