DRN-4422715
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurance declined a 
claim he made on his travel insurance policy. 
Mr A is represented but Ill refer to all submissions as being made by him.
What happened
Mr A hired a 125cc moped whilst on holiday. Unfortunately, he sustained a serious injury to 
his leg which required hospital treatment and surgery. 
Mr A contacted his insurer for assistance. His claim for medical assistance was rejected 
because Astrenska said Mr A hadnt complied with the relevant policy terms. Mr A 
complained to Astrenska but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, 
Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She was 
satisfied the claim had been fairly declined, in line with the relevant policy terms. She said it 
was Mr As responsibility to ensure that he had the correct licence requirements for the 
moped he hired. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said 
that the policy terms werent clear and were open to interpretation. He felt this was a real 
injustice and reiterated that he thought he had the correct documentation, or hed have never 
hired the moped. 
So, the case was passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says there is no cover for: 
Riding a motorcycle above 125cc or where you dont have a full licence or valid CBT 
certificate (DL196), are not following the local safety laws or riding on recognised 
roads. Quad bikes, ATVs or electronic scooters are not covered at any time. 
The policy terms and conditions set out in more detail the cover for riding a moped under the 
Sports and Activities section of cover. It says there is cover for: 
Mopeds (maximum 125cc, and passed CBT training, wearing a helmet) 
Motorcycling (maximum 125cc, and passed CBT training, wearing a helmet). 
Mr As UK driving licence which permits a person to ride a scooter up to 50cc without 
completing Compulsory Basic Training (CBT).  In order to ride a moped or motorcycle of up 
to 125cc he would need to complete the CBT course and obtain a DL196 certificate. 
Theres no dispute Mr A was riding a moped which was 125cc or that hed not completed 
CBT training. Mr A says he thought, based on the policy wording, that he didnt need a full 
driving licence and CBT. So, he thought his licence alone was sufficient. 
The IPID offers a summary of cover and highlights the relevant exclusion. More information 
about the exclusion was available in the policy terms. They said, maximum 125cc, and 
passed CBT training, wearing a helmet in relation to both mopeds and motorcycling (my 
emphasis). So, I think the policy terms do set out what was required and that this is 
sufficiently clear. 
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the wording referring to having a full UK licence or 
valid CBT certificate. But, as Ive outlined above, the specific section on mopeds does set 
out the requirements. And the terms also need to take account of a range of different 
scenarios regarding whats required of a policyholder to ride a moped or motorcycle abroad. 
So, this point hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
I also bear in mind that Mr A wouldnt have been able to drive a moped of over 50cc without 
the CBT in the UK. So, I think this also ought reasonably to have prompted him to check his 
cover, and the policy requirements if he wasnt sure.  
I know that my decision will come as a significant disappointment to Mr A and his family. Its 
clear that theyve had a very difficult time as a result of the stress and worry this situation 
has caused them. I have a lot of empathy with their circumstances and the impact that this 
has had on them. However, in the circumstances of this case, I cant fairly conclude that 
Astrenska has unreasonably declined to cover the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman