DRN-2757437
The complaint
Mr R through a representative, complains that ReAssure Limited gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Personal Pension.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision which set out the background to this complaint and my 
provisional findings. For completeness Ive included the background and a summary of my 
provisional findings below:
In 1988, GAN Life (now ReAssure, for ease of reference Ill just refer to ReAssure going forward) 
advised Mr R to transfer from his OPS into a personal pension with it. He also took out another 
policy that was used to contract-out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) at 
the same time.
In 1997, as part of the industry wide pension review, ReAssure invited Mr R to have the advice he 
received to take out the personal pensions reviewed. Mr R accepted and ReAssure concluded 
that he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his OPS. ReAssure offered to put things 
right by enhancing Mr Rs personal pension by an amount intended to match the benefits he 
wouldve accrued if hed stayed in the OPS.
To achieve this, ReAssure enhanced Mr Rs personal pension by approx. £19,000. This amount 
was based on assumptions approved by the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA).
In 2001, following an internal review, ReAssure discovered it had made a mistake when 
calculating Mr Rs offer in 1997. It found it should have paid an additional £27,000 to match the 
benefits given up in his OPS. Rather than just the £19,000 it had paid before. ReAssure said it 
would a separate top up policy to pay this to Mr R. ReAssure also confirmed that this review 
included both the original transfer and the SERPS element.
In early 2002, Mr R transferred his benefits to another pension provider.
When ReAssure came to set up the separate top up policy for Mr R, it made another mistake. It 
added the enhancement of £27,000 to a policy in Mr Rs wifes name instead, who was a 
customer of ReAssure.
In 2005, ReAssure again as part of an internal review, says it got a third party actuarial firm to 
check the offer it had made to Mr R. And the third party agreed the calculation had been done 
correctly. However, this didnt extend to checking the actual payment made, so the error went 
unnoticed by it.
The error also appears to have gone unnoticed by Mr R or at least unchallenged by him. In 2005, 
Mrs R took her benefits from her personal pension with ReAssure, 94% of which was made up by 
the value of the enhancement mistakenly added to her policy. To date ReAssure says she has 
received over £28,000 in tax free cash and annuity payments.
More recently in 2020, Mr R (through his representative) complained to ReAssure about the 
original advice given in 1988 to transfer from the OPS to a personal pension.
In the course of dealing with that complaint, after Mr Rs representative asked for evidence that it 
had paid appropriate redress  ReAssure realised its mistake in 2002 when it had enhanced Mr 
Rs wifes personal pension instead of paying it to a policy in Mr Rs name.
ReAssure offered to correct the error by:
calculating what Mr Rs personal pension would be worth now if, in 2002, ReAssure had 
paid Mr R the enhancement rather than his wife;
enhancing his personal pension value to that amount (at the time of the offer this 
amounted to an enhancement of £61,000); and
paying Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
ReAssure also said it had taken a business decision not to reclaim money, as it would be entitled 
to do, from Mrs R. And it wont be reducing her annuity going forward either to the amount it 
wouldve been without the enhancement. This wouldve been a significant reduction of approx. 
94%. ReAssure said therefore Mr R had essentially benefitted twice from the redress payment 
through shared finances with his wife.
Mr R and his representative didnt accept this offer. Mr Rs representative brought the complaint 
to us and said:
ReAssure didnt meet its regulatory requirement under the review. Paying redress is 
clearly a part of this.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance is clear that in this scenario the review 
should be carried out again and under the new guidance.
Mr Rs representative told us the redress had been paid to someone else so Mr R should 
now be compensated under the new guidance to put things right.
Mr R was still working at 68 and he shouldve retired at age 65. So this mistake has had a 
big effect on him.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but felt that ReAssures offer was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. He said that ReAssure had reviewed Mr Rs policy in line with the Pension 
Review guidance at the time. It was just the redress implementation where the error had 
occurred. But this had now been put right. Mr Rs representative had initially raised two separate 
complaints for both the transfer and the SERPS element. But our investigator explained as they 
were both included in the review, it was right they formed the same complaint. And his findings 
incorporated both.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the investigators findings. He said in response to the 
investigators view:
The Financial Conduct Authority's guidance is clear - where a firm "did not review the 
relevant pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements 
applicable for the review of the transaction at the time", it is the FCA's 2017 guidance that 
should be used "to determine appropriate redress".
It is not in doubt that ReAssure did not do what it was supposed to do. Actually making 
payment of the redress offered was (obviously) an essential requirement. The impact on 
Mr R of ReAssure's failings has been substantial - he has had to delay his retirement.
The FCA's rules do not allow for a firm to pay redress now as if it had done what it was 
supposed to do.
In the provisional decision I explained why I wouldnt be upholding Mr Rs complaint. In 
summary I concluded that:
ReAssures error was that in 2002 it augmented his wifes policy instead of Mr Rs. But I dont 
think this means the pension transfer wasnt properly reviewed under the Pension Review 
guidance then. Mr Rs situation now is unusual, and one which I doubt the regulator specifically 
had in mind when it introduced FG17/9. But in my view the wording of FG17/9 is sufficiently clear 
at paragraph 9 to exclude Mr Rs case, on the basis the pension transfer had already been properly reviewed (including calculation of redress) under the existing guidance and the mistake 
was simply in implementing the settlement.
Im satisfied the original Pension Review regulatory guidance applies in this case, rather than 
FG17/9.
On balance, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for redress in this case to have been 
calculated under the Pension Review guidelines applicable at the time of the review (which took 
place in 1997 and 2001).
I dont think it would be fair to ignore the likelihood that Mr R benefitted as part of a shared 
household from the redress paid erroneously to his wife in 2002. And as it appears their 
household had access to those funds from as early as 2005, Im not currently persuaded 
ReAssures mistake meant Mr R had to delay his retirement.
ReAssure has confirmed it will not attempt to reclaim the money paid erroneously to Mrs R, as it 
would potentially be entitled to do. And it has offered to pay Mr R the value of the redress policy 
including investment growth, plus £500 for any distress and inconvenience caused. So Mr R is 
very likely better off for the error occurring than he wouldve been if the redress policy had been 
setup correctly in the first place.
Responses following my provisional decision
Following my provisional decision, it became clear that ReAssure hadnt made Mr R & Mrs R 
and their representative aware that the augmentation had been setup in Mrs Rs name. 
ReAssure had only told them it had been paid to someone else. We asked ReAssure for any 
further evidence it had, so a more complete picture of events could be shared with Mr R and 
his representative.
This evidence showed that the redress augmentation was set up in Mrs Rs name and that 
the benefits from the augmentation had been paid into their joint account and that they lived 
at the same address.
After considering this Mr Rs representative said he didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. Ive summarised his response below:
There can be no doubt that Mr R's case was not dealt with in accordance with the 
applicable regulatory standards. Mr R accepted ReAssure's original offer of redress in 
1997. There was, however, never any consideration in respect of that offer. No money 
was paid until 2002, and it was paid not to Mr R but (as we now know) to his wife. In the 
eyes of the law, therefore, the offer and acceptance are "void".
The Pensions Review guidance also made clear that calculations were only valid for 
three months. Even if the redress had been paid to Mr R, rather than Mrs R, in October 
2002, it would have been invalid, since the second calculation was carried out in 2001.
Therefore FG17/9 9.1. applies the firm did not review the relevant pension transaction in 
accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of 
the transaction at the time.
The fairest and most reasonable solution, therefore, and the only one that satisfies the 
applicable regulatory and legal requirements, is for a calculation to be carried out 
according to the FG17/9 guidance in order to determine the appropriate redress due to 
Mr R, and for Mrs R to repay the funds paid to her in error. Mrs R has confirmed she is 
willing to do this.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and 
for broadly the same reasons.
Mr Rs representatives argument centres on his belief that ReAssure hadnt followed the 
Pension Review guidance and so any offer accepted under that was void. And that the 
wording of FG17/9 brought this transfer into its scope.
The Pension Review here was carried out in 1997 and was accepted in full and final 
settlement by Mr R then. Subsequently we know that ReAssure carried out a review of this 
and realised the settlement needed to be recalculated. The applicable guidance for this 
situation is covered under Pension Review Bulletin No5.
Either as a result of monitoring visits or through their own internal audits, firms may become 
aware of errors in calculations completed in the past. Firms are expected to make good the 
effects of such errors if they caused a material shortfall in the redress offered to the investor.
The effective date at which the recalculation should be done depends on whether or not the 
investor has accepted the offer arising from the original calculation.
Where an offer made in good faith as a result of a calculation which is now found to contain 
an error has been accepted by the investor, the recalculation to correct the error should be 
done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
Where there is a material increase in redress following the recalculation, this should be 
notified to the investor (or their dependants) and appropriate action taken to bring the 
original redress offer into line with the revised calculation.
The cases covered by the above will have been subject to an original offer that was agreed 
by the investor. Where remedial work results in an increase to redress being made, it will not 
be necessary to obtain explicit prior agreement from the investor to the revised offer. 
However, investors should be given a reasonable period of time in which to raise any 
queries relating to the revised offer. The letter notifying the investor of the improved offer 
should include reference to this.
Mr Rs representative says that as the payment wasnt made to Mr R, legally the offer and 
acceptance is void. Mr Rs representative is wrong to say no payment was made in respect 
of ReAssures offer to Mr R. (ReAssure paid around £19,000 to Mr R.) Nonetheless, whether 
or not a legal contract was formed here does not affect my view of whats a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. Im satisfied ReAssure followed the Pension Review 
guidance in good faith and that Mr R wanted to resolve the matter based on the approach 
ReAssure had set out. The outstanding problem was in the way ReAssure had made 
payment for the later redress augmentation (to Mrs R) rather than in the way ReAssure had 
reviewed the pension transfer under the regulatory guidance.
Mr Rs representative also said that because the offer was made in 2001 and not paid until 
October 2002 that a recalculation shouldve occurred as this was longer than the three 
months permitted. And therefore the offer was void under the Pension Review. But it 
appears the guidance Mr Rs representative is referring to is the FG17/9 guidance applicable 
to present day reviews and not to past reviews carried out under the Pension Review. As 
detailed above, once the initial offer was accepted in 1997, the remedial work didnt require a 
further offer and acceptance process. ReAssure sent Mr R a letter in May 2001 which explained it would add the redress as a top 
up (augmentation) and it wouldnt require his acceptance. The augmentation was added 
much later in October 2002 (and applied to Mrs R not Mr R)  whilst Im not aware of any 
specific timeframe for how long the calculation should remain valid (Pension Review Bulletin 
No2 says an offer under the Pension Review is valid for six months but it doesnt appear this 
applies to remedial work)  I can see that the value of the additional redress due in May 
2001 when the letter was sent to Mr R, differs from what was actually paid in October 2002. 
So this strongly suggests, a recalculation was carried out before the augmentation was 
applied. So I think the calculation was likely brought up to date in any event. 
So the evidence supports that ReAssure did follow the Pension Review guidance. As I said 
in my provisional decision, its mistake was in the actual payment of the redress. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable  Ive taken into account that when the benefits that 
came from the redress augmentation were withdrawn by Mrs R, they were paid into a joint 
account of Mr and Mrs Rs. So Mr R appears to have had access to  and presumably use of 
 the money, no less than if the error had not occurred and the redress had been instead 
setup in Mr Rs name. Its also fair to presume as Mr and Mrs R were married, living at the 
same address and had a joint account, that their finances were shared to a significant 
extent. Mr and Mrs R through their representative havent told us differently. Therefore, it 
appears the impact of the error was minimal. The redress policy wasnt in Mr Rs name but 
he benefitted from it in any event and quite possibly in the same way he wouldve done had 
it been in his name. Based on this evidence theres an argument to say that whilst ReAssure 
made an error, Mr Rs position hasnt materially changed.
However, ReAssure has said it will reproduce the redress policy as if it had been setup 
correctly in Mr Rs name in October 2002 with the investment returns that he wouldve 
received to date. This currently stands at more than double the initial redress amount. This 
will be available to Mr R to withdraw as pension benefits (so in essence Mr and Mrs R will 
receive the benefit of the redress twice). And ReAssure will not look to reclaim the money 
from Mrs R. That I think represents a fair outcome for Mr and Mrs R.
Furthermore, whilst I note that Mr Rs representative wasnt aware that Mrs R had received 
the augmentation  based on the evidence it seems improbable that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt 
have realise at the time that the redress policy wasnt meant for Mrs R. I say this because: 
Mr R was notified in May 2001 that he would be receiving redress in the form of a policy 
augmentation. In 2002 when the augmentation redress policy was setup, a covering letter 
was sent instead to Mrs R. But this letter said the policy had been setup to provide redress 
as described in its previous letter (the one sent to Mr R). Mr R wouldve been expecting a 
redress policy to be setup for him at this point. And Mrs R wouldnt have been. Whilst 
ReAssure is responsible for the error, upon reading the letters I think its reasonable to say 
Mr and Mrs R ought to have realised something wasnt right. And they could have notified 
ReAssure of this error. Had they done so, ReAssure wouldve had the opportunity to rectify 
the mistake then.
Mr Rs representative maintains that the case should be considered under FG17/9. I 
explained my findings in relation to this point in my provisional decision. And my view 
remains the same. I dont think FG17/9 applies here. The evidence supports that ReAssure 
did review Mr Rs case in line with the regulatory standards of the time. Its mistake was an 
administrative one, it set up the redress policy in Mrs Rs name rather than Mr Rs.
Taking everything into account, I dont think in the circumstances a recalculation under 
FG17/9 represents a fair resolution to this complaint. On balance, I think its fair and reasonable for the redress in this case to have been calculated under the Pension Review 
guidelines applicable at the time of the review (which took place in 1997 and in 2001 when 
the remedial work was carried out).
My conclusion is that the offer already made by ReAssure is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of the complaint. As I think the offer is fair, I wont be recommending any 
further award. However, ReAssure, as a gesture of goodwill, may want to consider bringing 
the current loss calculation up to the date of acceptance of its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, ReAssure Limited in settlement of this complaint (upon Mr 
Rs acceptance) should pay Mr R in accordance with the offer it made prior to the complaint 
being referred to this service. It should pay the loss it calculated, plus £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused  if it hasnt already. 
ReAssure Limited should make this payment in a timely manner following Mr Rs 
acceptance. The compensation resulting must where possible be paid to Mr R within 60 
days of the date ReAssure Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 60 days, that it takes ReAssure Limited to pay Mr R this compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman