DRN-2200709
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a claim for stain damage on his furniture protection plan was declined 
by Amtrust Europe Limited.
What happened
Mr S is represented in this complaint by Mrs S. Mr S bought a furniture protection plan with 
Amtrust when he purchased a new sofa. In October 2019 he noticed a small stain after his 
cats urinated on the sofa. He contacted the agent to have it removed but had to chase until 
March 2020 before he received the claim form. By this time the cats had urinated on other 
areas of the sofa. 
Specialist cleaning products didnt help. And the appointment in March 2020 had to be 
rearranged for June 2020 due to the pandemic. The cleaning technician who visited said the 
stain was the result of build-up and wasnt covered by the policy. Mr S says the sofas are 
now unusable and he wants to get rid of them. Hes had to put them in the garage due to the 
smell. And ideally he would like the stained sofa cushions replacing.
Amtrust said itd declined the claim for stains as it felt the damage had occurred gradually 
over a period of time. It could see Mr S had reported two incidents of staining. But its 
investigation suggested the stains had happened over a period of time. Amtrust said the 
claim had been declined correctly within the terms and conditions of the policy, which 
covered for sudden or single incidents of accidental damage and staining. It didnt cover for 
gradual damage or build-up of stains. 
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Amtrusts response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He considered whether Amtrust had acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ss claim or if any errors had been made. He could see Mr S said there was 
only one stain when the claim was first reported. But further stains occurred while he waited 
for the form to arrive. And the cats then urinated on other areas of the couch causing further 
damage. 
Our investigator felt the terms and conditions met the first stain as it was sudden and 
unintentional. But by the time the technicians were able to inspect it, the cats had caused 
further staining which couldnt be described as sudden and unintentional. 
Although Mr S reported this, and said he hadnt received the claim form, our investigator felt 
the damage increased in a way that wouldnt be covered by the policy. The terms and 
conditions stated it wouldnt cover any stains or damage arising over time And he felt 
Mr S couldve prevented further staining by the cats until the original stain had been cleaned. 
So he didnt think Amtrust was wrong to say the stain had occurred gradually or that the 
problem existed due to build up. And he wouldnt be asking them to do anything more. 
Mrs S didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. The policy had been 
bought in good faith and clearly stated it included human and animal bodily fluids. And it 
was Amtrusts inaction that led to the greater problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says Mr S bought the protection plan because he had cats. And shes made a number 
of points which Ive considered very carefully. Ive also listened to four telephone calls 
between Mr S or Mrs S and the furniture protection agents. And Ive looked carefully at the 
product information document and the terms and conditions of the protection plan. Ive 
referred to certain sections below when considering if Amtrust unfairly declined the claim.
The intention of the upholstery protection plan was to provide cover for individual incidents of 
accidental staining and/or accidental damage. The product information document includes 
human and animal bodily fluids as accidental stains that are insured. 
And it states the policy holder may claim as many times as you need, up to the price 
originally paid for the furniture. Under what is not insured the following items are listed:
 Structural damage
 General cleaning
 Wear and tear
 Damage caused by perspiration
 Colour change
 Animal chewing
 The mattress (if a specific protector is not in use)
Under the heading are there any restrictions on cover the plan states cover does NOT 
apply for damage that occurs naturally due to normal use and ageing or for your product 
becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
Ive also looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the upholstery protection plan. Under 
the section headed accidental staining the terms and conditions state in this plan this 
means sudden and unintentional spills of the item of food, drinks, human and domestic pet 
bodily fluids, cosmetics, dyes, tars, inks, glue, soap, wax, paints and caustic solutions which 
result in a stain. 
Under section 3 what is covered the terms state the plan covers the cost of repair in the 
event of a sudden and unintentional incident resulting in a stain. Section 4 what is not 
covered includes any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your 
product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
Section 6 claims procedure asks that each incident that may give rise to a claim is notified 
within 28 days of the event or as soon as possible. Section 6 also states that in order to 
claim, you will be required to complete a claim form. A claim form would be sent if requested 
by telephone or email or it could be downloaded from the website. Section 7 general 
conditions states you should ensure that care is taken of your product and it is maintained 
in line with the manufacturers guidelines. 
Mrs S argues that each incident of soiling was a separate and individual incident  the 
product didnt become gradually dirty and out of condition over time. And the policy allowed 
for multiple claims. 
She says if the initial incident met the terms of the policy then each subsequent event should 
also be considered in the same way as a separate incident. Each incident of staining was 
accidental and separate. Mrs S also says that if Amtrust had responded to the initial report of staining the situation 
wouldnt have deteriorated so badly that the sofa became unusable. 
There are two main issues for me to consider. Did Amtrust act fairly when it declined the 
claim. And did the delay in receiving and returning the claim form affect how the claim was 
assessed.  
Mr S reported the first incident of staining in October 2019. He reported a second incident 
around the end of the year. Ive listened to a call between Mr S and the care provider from 
December 2019 when Mr S says he hasnt received the claim form yet. 
The call handler apologises and says she will send another pack in the post. And she asks 
Mr S to get back in touch if he hasnt received anything within a week or so. But Ive not 
seen anything to show Mr S reported that the form hadnt arrived for a number of months.
Mrs S has mentioned they received a cleaning product to use on the sofa and therefore 
Amtrust mustve acknowledged theyd received the claim. According to Amtrusts records it 
sent a fabric spotter with a claim form on 10 October and a fabric spotter with a claim form 
on 11 December. 
So its likely that if Mrs S says they received the cleaning solution they must also have 
received at least one of the two packages from Amtrust. And a claim form shouldve been 
included in each package. On 6 March 2020 Mr S told Amtrust he still hadnt received a 
form. And this time only a claim form only was sent, after which a technicians visit was 
arranged.
The claims procedure section states that valid claims will be settled by sending out a 
specialised stain remover (if appropriate) or by cleaning or repairing the damaged product. 
So I cant say Amtrust didnt act within the terms and conditions of the plan by first sending 
out a specialised cleaning product and then arranging to try and have the sofa cleaned. As 
Ive noted above section 7 requires Mr S to take care of his product. So although he may 
have covered the sofa with something to deter the cats, they were still able to cause 
considerable further damage in the following months.
Mrs S says the delay in obtaining and returning the claim form led to further incidents of 
staining before a visit could be arranged. And by that time the damage was too great to 
repair. But from what Ive seen Amtrust did send two claim forms by post in response to 
conversations with either Mr S or Mrs S. 
The terms and conditions state the claim form could be sent by post or email if asked for. Or 
the claim form could be downloaded from the companys website. During the telephone call 
on 11 December, while Mr S is waiting for his call to be handled, the recorded message also 
states, if you prefer to download a claim form please visit and then gives the website. 
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Amtrust responsible for the delay in getting a 
technician to assess the damage to the sofa. Its records show claim forms were sent with 
cleaning products on two occasions and Mr S couldve also accessed a claim form from the 
website. It wasnt Amtrusts responsibility to ensure the post was delivered to Mr S or to 
chase for a response when none was received.
From the photographs Ive seen there appears to be multiple occurrences of the cats 
urinating on the sofa cushions and also on other parts of the sofa. So its likely that a 
considerable number of incidents occurred over a period of time  despite the efforts Mr S 
made to cover the sofa and protect it from further damage. The inspection report found the likely cause of the staining was animal body fluids. The 
technician felt Mr Ss cats may have been using the cushions as a litter tray for a period of 
time and the fabric and padding was badly contaminated with urine and beyond the spot and 
stain repair equipment. The report also noted the condition of other areas of sofa fabric was 
also heavily soiled due to accumulated staining. 
Although it may have been possible to repair the original stain had the form been received 
and returned before further staining, it was clearly now not possible to return the sofa to its 
original condition. 
Gradual damage is likely to be caused by repeated individual actions over a period of time. 
But that doesnt mean Amtrust should consider the extensive staining to be the result of a 
number of individual accidental actions which are separately covered by the protection plan.
To be able to consider the claim in such a way, each incident of urination would have to be 
separately reported and cleaned. But the report and photographs suggest considerably more 
incidents than Mr S reported to Amtrust. 
So I think its reasonable to say the stains did build up over a period of time. And I cant say 
Amtrust has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim under the clause for 
damage that occurs naturally due to normal use and ageing or for your product becoming 
gradually dirty and out of condition over time. Each untreated urine stain would make the 
product become gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant say Amtrust has acted 
unfairly in declining the claim under the terms and conditions of the furniture protection plan. 
And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman