DRN-4184140
The complaint
Miss B complains about credit granted to her by First Response Finance Ltd.
What happened
First Response agreed credit of £4,642 for Miss B in April 2018 in order for her to acquire
a car. The cash price of the car was £4,942. The total amount owing under the
agreement came to £9,052.32 including interest and charges. Miss B paid a cash deposit
of £300 and the remaining £8,752.32 was to be repaid by 48 instalments of £182.34.
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement meaning First Response was
the owner and Miss B was, in essence, paying for the use of the car. I can see from the
account history that Miss B had a returned direct debit payment a few months into the
agreement. Miss B continued to miss several payments each year and wasnt managing
to clear her arrears. Shes now in a repayment plan to clear the debt.
Miss B said that First Response didnt sufficiently check her finances or her personal
circumstances before lending to her. She says at the time of application she was working
part time, was borrowing from short term lenders and had recently entered a Debt Relief
Order. Miss B also shared that she had a mental health condition which shed told First
Response about when she applied for credit.
First Response said that it carried out sufficient checks when Miss B applied for credit. It
said it verified Miss Bs income and expenditure and checked her credit file. It found the
credit would be affordable for her and so it hadnt been irresponsible to lend. First
Response also confirmed that Miss B had disclosed her mental health condition when
she applied for credit and that it dealt appropriately with this information which didnt
impact on her application. First Response didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B referred her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They
found that First Response should have carried out a more comprehensive affordability
assessment than it did before entering into an agreement with Miss B. They also found
that further checks were likely to have shown that credit would be unaffordable for her and 
so recommended that her complaint be upheld.
First Response didnt agree with this recommendation. It asked for the complaint to come
to an ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 9 May 
explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Bs complaint and setting out my proposals for 
putting things right for her. Miss B accepted my decision but First Response didnt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what First Response said in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive remain of the view that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for First Response. Ill set out my reasons for 
upholding again in this final decision and will refer to its comments where appropriate.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when First Response lent to
Miss B. Its rules and guidance said that before agreeing credit for her, First Response
needed to check that she could afford to meet her repayments sustainably. In other
words without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, without having to borrow
further, and while meeting her other debt payments and other normal outgoings. These
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount and term, for
example) and to Miss Bs particular circumstances.
Ultimately, First Response needed to treat Miss B fairly and take full account of her
interests when making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of
their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did First Response complete reasonable
and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Bs application to satisfy itself that she
would be able to make her repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and
proportionate checks have shown? Did First Response make a fair lending decision?
First Response said that it carried out sufficient affordability checks before agreeing credit
for Miss B. It recorded Miss Bs net monthly income as £2,196 and verified this with her
payslips, and benefit and bank statements. Miss Bs payslip confirmed she worked full time
with net monthly pay of £942 in March and £1,029 in April 2018. She was in receipt of
state benefits of about £1,160 a month and had dependents. The bank account
information is a screen shot of deposits and doesnt show any payments. First Response
estimated Miss Bs living costs came to £520, based on national statistical data, and
recorded her rent and council tax as £450 and her existing debt repayments as £399. It
estimated that Miss B had disposable income of over £800 a month, which would leave
her with enough money to afford her repayments of £182.
First Response knew Miss B was having some problems with her finances as it saw from
her credit record that she had three accounts in default, including a utilities account. First
Response said that it wouldnt automatically decline to lend to someone due to their historic
financial issues and that it discussed Miss Bs finances with her in detail at the time. It
noted that shed had set up repayment plans to manage her debts and that some of her
debts were almost fully repaid. Miss B told First Response at the time that although shed
had some problems she felt confident she could manage a long-term commitment.
I think these checks would be proportionate in some circumstances but having considered
this point carefully, I cant say that they were in this case. Agreeing further credit for
Miss B potentially committed her to spending close on 30% of her total income on debt in 
any one month, and shed need to meet her repayments for the car for four years. I think it 
would have been appropriate for First Response to do more than rely on statistical datasets, 
which might not have been representative of Miss Bs spending, and take steps to check that 
she didnt have ongoing financial problems and could afford to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. 
Miss B provided us with her bank statements from the time and Ive reviewed these. To be 
clear Im not suggesting that this is the information First Response should have sought but I 
think its reasonable to rely on these to understand what a proportionate check might
have revealed about Miss Bs finances. These show that Miss Bs usual expenses,
including her housing costs, were higher than the figures First Response relied on. They
also show significant levels of gambling, upwards of £500 a month. Altogether, it seems tome that there was a risk Miss B wouldnt be able to meet her repayments for the credit in
a sustainable manner. I think its likely First Response would have learnt this through a
proportionate check and would have declined to lend to Miss B on this occasion.
First Response said in response to my provisional decision that I hadnt shown that Miss B 
didnt have the capacity to afford this loan from the beginning, and that it was reasonable for 
her to spend an increased proportion of her income on what was an essential asset. First 
Response said that relying on statistical data was perfectly acceptable under its regulatory 
obligations, and the income and expenditure ultimately showed that Miss B had the capacity 
to afford the repayments.
First Response also said that even if Miss B was gambling at the time, she could have 
stopped in order to prioritise her credit repayments and it would not have used this as a sole 
reason to decline an application. There was no suggestion that Miss B has or had a 
gambling addiction, which is an entirely different circumstance and this was an unfair reason 
to contribute towards upholding this complaint.
To be clear, I didn't make a provisional finding that Miss B had the capacity to meet her 
repayments at the outset, but rather I found that the information First Response relied on 
showed that she would have. As I explained above, I thought it wasn't sufficient in this case 
to rely on this information. The bank statements First Response provided to us show all the 
deposits into Miss B's account over March and April 2018 which does include money from a 
gaming account and a returned direct debit.
I can identify most of Miss Bs costs on the bank statements she provided including 
insurances, motor tax, mobile and media payments, child related costs (sports expenses and 
school costs via parent pay) and food and petrol. I didnt consider any other likely child-
related costs such as clothing or entertainment. Miss B told us she paid some expenses in 
cash for example, child care costs and electricity and gas. These last costs seem plausible 
to me and I can see cash withdrawals on the statements. 
I didn't investigate these costs further with Miss B because I could also see on the bank 
statements that she was regularly spending relatively large sums on gambling to the extent 
that she was spending more than she had coming in, rendering the credit unaffordable. I 
described this spend as upwards of £500 in my provisional decision - for March 2018 it came 
to £546, for the two weeks of statements I've seen from each of February and April it was 
£290 and £348 respectively. These were small frequent transactions indicating a pattern of 
spending which was likely to continue, and I can see that it did into May for example with 
over £650 worth of transactions. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that First Response was irresponsible when it agreed this credit 
for Miss B and it now needs to take steps to put things right for her.
Putting things right
In line with our usual approach, I dont think its fair that First Response should be able to
charge any interest or fees owed under the agreement. I understand that Miss B has been 
charged £8,986.32 which is £8,752.32 plus £234 of charges applied in November 2021 and 
January 2022. The balance on the account as of the 29 March 2023 was £2,395.13. This 
means Miss B has paid an amount of £6,591.19 at least to First Response, in addition to her 
£300 deposit.
Miss B has repaid the cash price of the car. In this case I think its fair that the car remains
with her and that ownership of the car is transferred to her. In order to resolve Miss Bs complaint, First Response should:
End the agreement with nothing further for Miss B to pay; and
Transfer ownership of the car to her; and
Refund to Miss B any payments she has made over £4,942 (being the cash price of 
the car); and
Add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement; and
Remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires First Response to take off tax from this interest. First
Response must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for
one.
As mentioned, First Response applied for a court order for an attachment of earnings in
early 2022. This was awarded for an amount of £2,845.13. Miss B said she didnt dispute the
court order as the first letter she received was after the judgement had been awarded. So I
dont think the court considered whether or not the credit was irresponsibly agreed or that
Miss B could have raised this argument at the time. Miss B said she asked the court to defer
the order, which it did on the condition that she paid £50 a month to First Response to clear
the debt.
The court made a decision that Miss B should pay First Response an amount of £2,845.13. I
cant now decide that this order should be set aside so this debt remains, should First
Response decide to pursue it. It is up to Miss B to decide whether she uses this refund to 
repay the debt. 
A simpler alternative resolution to Miss Bs complaint may be for First Response to waive the 
outstanding balance on the account and consider it settled, should both parties agree.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about First Response 
Finance Ltd. It now needs to take the above steps to put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman