DRN-2762915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited has declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr D has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What happened
In 2018 Mr D got in touch with esure after he noticed damage to the main house and 
conservatory of his property. esure appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the damage 
and arranged for investigations to be carried out. This included soil and drain testing, a tree 
survey and level monitoring.
The loss adjuster said the damage had been caused by subsidence as a result of clay 
shrinkage due to the effects of trees and shallow foundations. It said the policy didnt cover 
damage arising from defective design  and it considered the foundations hadnt been 
designed to the correct depth. It declined the claim. Mr D didnt think this was fair and 
complained. He was also unhappy with the way the claim had been handled.
esure said it was led by the loss adjusters knowledge and considered it fair to decline the 
claim. But it thought the service the loss adjuster had offered was unacceptable. It accepted 
there had been periods of delays and poor communication. It offered £300 compensation.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered it. She didnt think 
it was fair for esure to decline the claim. She was satisfied the compensation already offered 
was reasonable. Mr D agreed with the investigator and said hed incurred expenses whilst 
hed continued with the claim. He asked whether esure would refund them. esure disagreed 
with the investigator.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and esure accepts subsidence, as a result 
of nearby trees, has damaged Mr Ds house and conservatory.
esure has declined the claim by relying on a term which applies to the entire buildings policy. 
It says damage resulting from faulty design isnt covered. Esure considers the foundation 
design was faulty as it was too shallow.
The investigator noted the subsidence section of the policy contains a similar term. This one 
says damage isnt covered if its caused by: inadequate foundations which did not meet the 
building regulations which were in force at the time the foundations were constructed.
esure has been clear that its relying on the first term only. The investigator considered it was 
unfair to disregard the similar term, as its specific to subsidence claims. I agree and will 
explain what impact that has on the complaint below.
esures loss adjuster considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. It 
says these standards require a foundation depth of at least 2.25m for the house and 2.4m 
for the conservatory, taking into account the nearby trees and soil type underneath Mr Ds 
extension. I understand the foundation of the main house is 1.2m deep and the conservatory 
is 550mm. Ill consider each structure separately.
Main house
I understand the main house was built in 1986. esure says that because it was a new house, 
Ns standards must apply. But Im not persuaded it has shown this to be the case.
Mr D bought the house in 2008 and says he wasnt provided with any information at that time 
that relates to N. Hes been in touch directly with N, whose records dont go back that far. 
Hes also been in touch with the developer and the local council  neither of which have 
records going back that far either. esure accepts theres no evidence to show Mr Ds house 
was built by a builder working to Ns standards. Because of this, Im not satisfied it would be 
fair to judge the design of the foundation against these standards.
And the relevant policy terms, noted above, dont mention N or its standards. But in the 
subsidence section of the policy, under which this claim has been accepted, Building 
Regulations have been specified as the standard by which to judge the adequacy of the 
foundations. So I think those regulations are more relevant here than Ns standards.
esure has also considered the Building Regulations that applied at the time. It notes 
Requirement A2 says, in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground 
movement caused by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. esure says that because 
theres been subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage, this point hasnt been met.
Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as esure has would produce a fair 
outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused by clay 
shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt covered by the policy. 
The introduction to the regulations says the document provides practical guidance to 
meeting the requirements. I understand that to mean requirement A2 is a broad aim and 
there is more detailed, specific information in the following sections about how to achieve 
that aim.
At one stage esure said the regulations from 1985 required a minimum foundation depth of 
900mm. It later said no minimum was specified. It has provided this service with a copy of 
the regulations from that time. I cant see they specify any foundation depths  only widths. 
But even if it does require a minimum of 900mm, the main house exceeded this as the 
foundation was built to a depth of 1,200mm.
I also take into account that at the time of the damage, the main house had stood for over 30 
years. esure hasnt suggested it previously suffered subsidence problems. As the foundation 
exceeded the minimum requirement of Building Regulations, if any minimum applied at that 
time, and stood without a problem for over 30 years, Im not satisfied esure has shown the design to be faulty. To put things right, esure must now accept the claim for the main house. 
Ill come back to that below.
Conservatory
I understand the conservatory was built in 2015. Theres been no suggestion the builder who 
constructed the extension was working for or under the supervision of N.
esure says the conservatory was exempt from building regulations when it was built. But 
notes the minimum foundation depth in 2015 for a structure subject to the regulation was 
900mm, based on the soil type beneath the conservatory.
esure considers the conservatory should have been built in line with Conservatory 
Association (CA) guidance and has provided this service with a copy of it. I note the 
introduction is clear that the document provides recommendations and isnt mandatory. 
esure has pointed to the site survey section which includes guidance for the builder to take 
care when building near trees and suggests Ns standards are consulted. In the base design 
and construction section, it notes the requirements of Building Regulations, including A2 
mentioned above.
The CA document isnt a requirement, its guidance. And within that guidance it references 
both Building Regulations and the standards of N without stipulating that either must be 
followed  only that they can be taken into account. So I dont think it would be fair to 
conclude that the foundation had to meet the specifications of Building Regulations or N.
But, in my view, there was a duty on the builder to build a structure that would likely stand for 
a reasonable period of time, bearing in mind the specific conditions of the site and relevant 
guidance and good practice which existed at the time. This includes the design and 
construction of the foundation.
Building Regulations have been specified in the policy as the standard by which to judge the 
adequacy of the foundations, so I think theyre more relevant here. Although they didnt 
apply to the conservatory, Im satisfied they should form part of a builders consideration of 
what sorts of guidance and good practice to take into account. Whilst the foundation didnt 
have to meet the 900mm minimum set out in Building Regulations, the actual depth of 
550mm doesnt suggest they were considered or used as a guide. And I note the 
conservatory failed around three years after it was built. So I dont think it would be fair to 
conclude it had stood the test of time in a similar way to how the main house has.
Mr D has tried to contact the conservatory builder but hasnt received a written response. He 
doesnt have any information from the builder to show what they took into account when they 
designed and built the foundation. As a result, its unclear why 550mm was considered a 
reasonable depth in the circumstances. I recognise this is difficult for Mr D to show if the 
builder isnt responding  and as a customer he trusted the builder to use their expertise. But 
the policy is clear that it doesnt cover damage caused by faulty design or inadequate 
foundations. And on the strength of the evidence available, Im satisfied it was fair for esure 
to decline the claim for the conservatory for this reason.
Putting things right
I intend to require esure to accept the claim for the main house, but not the conservatory, 
based on the evidence available. I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make a 
finding on how esure should do that at this stage.But, as a guiding principle, I would expect esure to provide a lasting and effective repair of 
the damage to the main house. In a subsidence claim, that means stabilising the building. 
That might be achieved by removing trees and/or underpinning, but that will be something 
for esure to review, consider, and discuss with Mr D. I would also expect esure to handle the 
claim promptly and to take into account the timescale of any possible actions when deciding 
how to handle the claim fairly.
After esure declined Mr Ds claim, he was left to resolve the subsidence problem on his own. 
He has taken steps, and incurred costs in doing that. He would like those costs to be 
refunded by esure. As Im satisfied esure should have continued to deal with the claim for 
the main house, I think it would be fair for esure to refund any costs Mr D reasonably 
incurred, plus interest from when he made the payments.
Had esure continued with the claim as it ought to have done, Mr D wouldnt have incurred 
these costs. They are:
£144.00 engineer visit and verbal report
£750.00 tree removal
£  69.95 book on tree root damage to buildings
£928.80 level monitoring
Im satisfied all of these costs were reasonably incurred. Mr D took advice from an engineer 
and a book in order to help him deal with the subsidence problem in an appropriate way.
He followed the advice in the tree survey to have his tree removed  and at a cost less than 
that estimated in the survey. It also recommended a second tree be removed, which it said is 
owned by the local authority. Its common for local authorities to require evidence that its tree 
is causing a subsidence problem before agreeing to remove it. Level monitoring is generally 
considered to be an appropriate way of providing such evidence. The loss adjuster had 
already begun level monitoring and Mr D paid the same company to continue it and at the 
same intervals, so Im satisfied this was a reasonable thing to do.
esure has already accepted there were delays and poor communication during the claim. 
Had the claim being handled promptly and fairly, I think esure would have reached the same 
conclusion as I have, but around spring 2019  currently that means a delay of around two 
years. And during that time Mr D has effectively been handling the claim himself, something 
he shouldnt have had to do.
Taking everything into account, I think compensation totalling £750 would be fair in the 
circumstances. If esure has paid any compensation already, it can deduct that from £750.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr D also accepted it. He noted the level monitoring invoice Id asked esure to pay for was 
for the monitoring carried out in the previous calendar year. It has continued into this year, 
so there will be further costs. Mr D asked for esure to take over responsibility for paying for 
the monitoring.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings. But I will add some comments about the level monitoring.I said in my provisional decision that esure must accept the claim for the main house. That 
should involve reviewing the current position, considering the steps required to provide a 
lasting and effecting repair, and discussing them with Mr D.
As part of that, esure should take back responsibility for the level monitoring  including its 
payment. esure should decide whether level monitoring is to continue or stop, based on its 
review of the claim and what next steps it thinks should be taken. In either case, I think it 
would be fair for esure to pay for any level monitoring costs incurred up to the point it takes 
over the level monitoring  and for any further level monitoring it decides is required. This is 
for the same reason as it was fair to do so last year.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim for the main house, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy
Pay a total of £750 compensation
Refund each of the expenses Mr D incurred, as set out above.
pay simple interest* at 8% a year on each expense, from the date it was paid by Mr D 
until the date esure settles it.
*If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman