DRN-2447899
The complaint
Mr S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited made a mistake which meant he 
wasnt sent annual statements for his whole-of-life plan. Because of this, he wasnt aware 
that the value of the plan had significantly gone down, and so didnt have the information to 
act to protect his investment.
What happened
Mr S had a regular investment bond with Standard Life between 1988 and 2008, when it 
matured. He was then given options for his plan and chose to convert it to a whole-of-life 
plan. At that time, the value of his plan was just over £23,500. He took a regular income from 
the plan of £200 a month.
But, during this conversion, Standard Life made an administrative error which meant that 
annual statements for Mr Ss plan werent produced and sent to him. This error wasnt 
discovered until 2020. It then wrote to Mr S to tell him what had happened and send him an 
up-to-date statement. This showed that the fund value of Mr Ss plan was £4,321.90.
 
Mr S complained. He said that the lack of statements had denied him the opportunity to 
make timely decisions for his investment. 
Standard Life said that it had made an error when changing Mr Ss plan in 2008 and so 
annual statements werent produced and sent to him. But it didnt believe this had prevented 
him from making informed decisions about his plan, as it said he couldve contacted it at any 
time and the information about his plan was available through its online service. Standard 
Life apologised for its mistake and the inconvenience this caused and offered to pay Mr S 
£200 in compensation.
Standard Life then provided Mr S with information about the value of his plan each year 
since 2008. 
Mr S said that his Standard Life investment had under-performed. He compared it with 
another investment he held elsewhere which hed received an income from. He said that he 
felt Standard Life should pay him £3,000 in compensation.
 
But Standard Life said that Mr Ss investment had grown on average 5.6% a year. It said that 
the value had only gone down because hed withdrawn £2,400 each year, which was more 
than 10% of his original investment. It said the unit price of the policy would have had to 
grow at an average of over 10% a year for Mr Ss capital to be maintained. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that she appreciated that Mr S may have felt he wouldve done something differently if 
hed received annual statements for his plan, but she couldnt say with certainty what he 
would have done. She felt that Mr S wouldve been aware that he was receiving the income 
from the plan and could have contacted Standard Life if he had concerns or wanted to ask 
about the value of the plan. Overall, the investigator felt that the £200 offered by Standard 
Life was fair.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said Standard Life had been taking his premiums and making commission for many years 
before the conversion of his matured bond. He had been trying to build up reserves to see 
him into his retirement years, and Standard Life owed him a duty of care to let him know the 
value of his investment so that he could make timely interventions if he saw that he needed 
to. Mr S feels that Standard Life made a mistake but that its offer didnt reflect the losses 
hed incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life has apologised for a mistake it made during the conversion of Mr Ss matured 
bond into a whole-of-life plan. This mistake meant that he didnt receive annual statements 
which wouldve shown him the value of his plan. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that he may have made different choices for his investment, had 
he received some notification of the annual value. But is difficult to say with any certainty 
what Mr S may have done differently if hed received the annual statements. Because hed 
converted his bond to a whole-of-life plan, it allowed him to take out regular amounts for a 
tax-free income, and he could withdraw a lump sum at any time. It also provided him with life 
insurance with a guaranteed minimum sum assured. 
I do acknowledge that Mr S may have chosen to stop the income payments earlier or 
withdrawn the capital to invest elsewhere. This may have meant that he could have 
preserved his capital balance. 
However, Ive also considered that it was Mr Ss intention for this money to supplement his 
retirement income. And that was income that he did receive from this investment over the 
years. Mr Ss original investment into the whole-of-life plan was just over £23,500. And to 
February 2020, hed taken £27,400 from it in regular withdrawals. So I dont think its the 
case that Mr S lost the money he invested  hed been receiving it as part of his monthly 
income.
I can see that Mr S has looked to compare his Standard Life plan with another he holds, 
which he has received annual performance reports for. However, hes told us that this was a 
much larger investment and he takes a smaller percentage of income from it. Standard Life 
has explained how his investment had grown over the year in comparison with the 
withdrawals he was taking from it. Because these represented around 10% of the amount of 
the original investment, he has seen a reduction in that original capital because the 
investment has not performed at the rate that would have been needed to provide the 
income level without affecting that capital balance.
 
Mr S was aware of the amount he invested in his whole-of-life policy with Standard Life and 
the amount he was receiving from that as a monthly income. Although Standard Lifes error 
meant that he didnt receive annual statements giving his plan value, this information would 
have been available to him should he have had concerns or a query about the current value 
of the plan, or why he wasnt receiving a report as he did from his other investment. 
Overall, while I acknowledge Mr Ss upset that he wasnt aware of the value of his plan 
sooner, I think that Standard Lifes offer of £200 to recognise the mistake with the annual 
statements represents a fair resolution to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that Standard Life Assurance Limited should pay Mr S £200 compensation, if 
it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman