DRN-3664571
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed payments made from his 
current account. 
What happened
Mr M says that between January and September 2020 fraudulent transactions totalling over 
£6,000 were made from his current account to online gambling companies.
Mr M says his debit card and PIN may have been intercepted in the communal hall of the 
property he lives at. Mr M says he has been the victim of fraud and that similar payments 
were also made from accounts he holds with other banks, but those banks have refunded 
them to him.
Santander investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payments. It didnt agree that 
the transactions were indicative of fraud. It thought Mr M had authorised the withdrawals or 
made them himself because:
the transactions were carried out using Mr Ms genuine card details
it believes Mr M has not been consistent in his explanation of what has happened
genuine transactions were carried out in between the ones that Mr M is disputing
evidence from one of the online gambling companies shows that the account that 
had been registered used some of Mr Ms details and that the account was opened 
and used from an IP address that Mr M had also used for payments from his current 
account that he was not disputing
the pattern of spending was not consistent with fraud
Santander also decided to close Mr Ms accounts with it at this stage.
Mr M didnt agree with Santanders decision, so he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt it 
was more likely that Mr M had authorised the transactions or allowed them to be made, for 
largely the same reasons that Santander had set out. He also felt Santander had acted 
reasonably when it decided to close Mr Ms accounts.
Mr M disagreed, he maintains that he did not make the payments and provided evidence to 
show that another bank had accepted he had been the victim of fraud.
Because no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr M is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account also explain that Santander will not refund 
disputed payments if it can show that the account holder has authorised that payment.
So, the key question here is whether Santander has acted fairly in concluding that Mr M did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to conclude that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The gambling account the payments were made to was in Mr Ms name, with the correct 
date of birth
I cant see why a fraudster would have chosen to use Mr Ms account in this way - any 
winnings from the gambling account came straight back to Mr Ms Santander account, so 
its difficult to see how a fraudster could have benefitted from this as Mr M has not 
suggested that any money was fraudulently withdrawn form his account
Mr M has said he thinks his card and PIN could have been intercepted but he still had his 
card as he was using it for payments throughout the period in question
The disputed payments cover a period of several months, and given that Mr M continued 
to use his account throughout this period for other transactions, its difficult to see how he 
couldnt have noticed that so much money was missing
Santander has provided evidence to show that Mr M was regularly logging into online 
banking, and that he was making payments, which he has not claimed were fraudulent, 
from the same IP address as the gambling account was set up from
I appreciate that other banks Mr M has accounts with may have upheld his fraud claims with 
them, but I must consider this complaint individually. We dont know the details of Mr Ms 
claims with other banks or why those banks reached the decisions they did. But in this case, 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, on balance, its more likely that Mr M 
authorised the disputed payments. It follows that Santander is entitled to hold him liable for 
them.
Im also satisfied that Santander acted reasonably in closing Mr Ms accounts. The terms 
and conditions of his accounts with Santander say that it can close an account, without 
notice, if the account holder has breached the conditions of the account. Given Santanders 
decision on Mr Ms fraud claim, I think Santander was within its rights to close his accounts 
at this stage.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M, but I hope he will understand the reasons for 
my decision.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman