DRN-3364905
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) declined a payment 
holiday extension request on his credit card account despite agreeing to provide one. He 
says he didnt receive promised calls and his credit file has been adversely affected.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card account with Barclaycard. In June 2020, He contacted them to 
request a payment holiday. He said his financial situation had been adversely impacted due 
to the global pandemic. Barclaycard agreed a payment holiday between 1 June and 30 July 
2020.
Mr M says that shortly before this ended, he was invited to apply for an extension of the 
payment holiday, which he did. But he heard no more. So, in early September 2020, he 
called Barclaycard. A further application was completed during the call. 
Mr M says he later received a call about missed payments to his account. He explained hed 
applied for a payment holiday extension and was waiting for a response. Barclaycard told Mr 
M he wasnt eligible due to his employment situation. He says they offered to put his account 
on hold for 30 days while he tried to secure employment. Mr M says Barclaycard told him if 
he secured a job, they would be able to agree the payment holiday extension. Mr M 
continued to receive calls from Barclaycard about his missed payments.
Mr M had a further conversation with Barclaycard in early November 2020 and told them he 
now had a job but still hadnt heard anything. He says Barclaycard agreed they were at fault 
and agreed to refund £100 in interest to his account, as a gesture of goodwill. He said they 
agreed to raise a complaint to be referred to superiors to investigate. He said they also told 
him he would be given a payment holiday extension. But Mr M didnt receive a call back 
following his complaint or any written confirmation of the payment holiday extension.
In the meantime, Mr M continued to receive letters from Barclaycard referring to missed 
payments ultimately leading to a default notice in early February 2021. 
Barclaycard responded to Mr Ms complaint by letter in February 2021. They apologised that 
they hadnt called Mr M back following his complaint in November and credited his account 
with a further £100 as a gesture of goodwill. They said Mr M didnt qualify for a payment 
holiday extension and the information theyd reported on his credit file was correct. 
Barclaycard applied a further 30 day hold on Mr Ms account and sent him an income and 
expenditure form to complete and return, asking him to contact their Customer Guidance 
Unit.
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclaycard response. He wanted them to apply the payment 
holiday extension and remove any adverse information reported from his credit file, as theyd 
previously told him. So, he decided to refer matters to this service to investigate.
Our adjudicator considered all the circumstances but didnt agree that Barclaycard had 
treated him unfairly. Our adjudicator agreed with Barclaycards decision to decline his 
payment holiday request, given his employment situation and the payment arrears. 
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr 
Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Barclaycard agreed Mr Ms original application and provide a payment deferral between 1 
June and 31 July 2020. They did not report this on his credit file. So, this appears to meet 
the FCAs guidance.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Mr Ms initial application for an extension doesnt appear to have been received by 
Barclaycard. But a further application was completed during a call in early September 2020. 
Barclaycard have confirmed Mr M told them hed been made redundant. So as Mr M was 
unemployed and appeared to have no immediate prospect of securing further employment, 
Barclaycard declined his application. And I think they were entitled to do that here.
The FCAs guidance applies to consumers whose financial difficulties are considered to be 
temporary. Its generally accepted that this means that any problems will normally have been 
resolved by the time any payment deferral period ends. Based upon the information 
provided, I dont think Barclaycard could safely assume that Mr Ms financial problems were 
short term. So, they would need to explore alternative support options.
During a further call, later in September 2020, Barclaycard told Mr M his application had 
been declined. They offered to explore alternative options, but Mr M told Barclaycard it 
wasnt convenient to discuss this further at that time.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances.
Following a further call in October 2020, Barclaycard sent an income and expenditure form 
to Mr M. This was to help them assess his financial circumstances in more detail and agree 
an appropriate solution. They applied a 30 day hold on his account to give him the time to 
complete and return this. I think this was an appropriate course of action here. But I cant 
see that Mr M returned the completed form.
Mr M has referred to the complaint call in early November 2020 when he suggests 
Barclaycard told him they would apply the extension. Ive listened to a recording of that call. 
Barclaycard acknowledged thered been multiple calls previously and matters still hadnt 
been resolved. So, they agreed to refund £100 as a gesture of goodwill. They also assured 
Mr M, if there is an error at our end, we can retrospectively apply the payment holiday. 
They also told Mr M, Im not going to guarantee anything. So, I think it was clear that 
Barclaycard had agreed to investigate Mr Ms complaint and if it was found theyd made 
mistakes, they would then apply the extension. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed, but 
Ive not heard or found anything that suggests Barclaycard had, in fact, agreed a deferral 
extension. Ultimately, until such time as a payment deferral is agreed and documented, Mr M was still 
obliged to make his contractual payments. If unable, he wouldve needed to discuss other 
support options with Barclaycard. In the call above, Barclaycard agreed a further account 
hold for 14 days. But they clearly explained that late payments would be reported, interest 
would still be applied and continued missed payments may lead to cancellation of Mr Ms 
card.
Unfortunately, Barclaycard didnt call Mr M back after his complaint was submitted. So, he 
heard nothing more until Barclaycards final response in February 2021. Barclaycard have 
acknowledged their failure to call Mr M. To reflect this, they credited £100 to his account as a 
gesture of goodwill. I think this feels fair in these circumstances. But I dont otherwise agree 
that Barclaycard treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. While a payment deferral extension 
wasnt agreed, they appear to have continued to offer to look at alternative support options.
I understand Mr M has not made any further payments to his account since his first payment 
deferral period ended. Barclaycard have reported this to the credit reference agencies, which 
they are obliged to do. In the event that Mr M is unable to bring his account up to date, I 
would urge him to contact Barclaycard to work with them to find a mutually acceptable 
solution. Mr M may also want to consider seeking advice and support from one of the 
independent debt advisory services currently available, if required.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman