DRN-2982235
The complaint
Mr D brings this complaint on behalf of company T.  He complains HSBC UK Bank Plc will 
not refund some disputed transactions.
For ease, I will refer to Mr D, not T, throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr D is disputing two payments made to a bar on 7 October 2019. The payments were made 
just after 2am and within a short time of each other.
Mr D and his friends had travelled abroad for a stag party. They had been at another event
during the day and were visiting a bar in the evening for drinks. Mr D told this service he had 
been drinking all day. The next morning, Mr D said he tried to use his card and realised it 
had been blocked. He then spoke to HSBC about these blocked transactions and this is 
when he found out about the disputed ones.
Three other cards, including one from another bank, had also been used during the early 
hours and the following morning, all of these had been blocked as well. These form the basis 
of separate complaints with this service.
On this account, HSBC said a payment was made using chip and PIN at 2:11 am.  A few 
minutes later, a payment of just under £600 was attempted at an ATM.  This was blocked 
due to it exceeding the daily cash limit  and then moments later, a chip and PIN transaction 
was carried out for a similar sum.
A further two payments were blocked due to HSBCs fraud detection system.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ds complaint about the transactions, but it did offer £150 in 
compensation for poor service. Mr D didnt accept this and asked our service to investigate - 
but our investigator didnt think they could ask HSBC to do anymore either.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have also considered Mr Ds complaints across all his accounts as they have helped to put
these transactions into context. I know Mr D agrees this with this being the best approach.
Having done so, Im afraid its not good news for Mr D as I have arrived at the same decision
as the investigator.
In short, HSBC is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs
2017). So, when Mr D says he didnt make this transaction, my primary concern is to come
to a view about whether I think he authorised it or not.
Authorisation is a two-stage test. It consists of authentication and consent  and I remind
myself that it is for HSBC to show Mr D authorised the payment, not for Mr D to show that
he did not.
Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
That is, Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used. Im afraid I cant accept Mr Ds
submission that his card was cloned. This service has never seen the successful
cloning of a chip inside bank cards  so on balance, I dont think thats likely to have
happened here.
However, the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to
enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr D consented to the payments being
made.
Mr D told us he arrived at the bar around midnight and left at approximately 1am. He thinks
he used a card to buy some drinks. But I dont think Mr Ds recollection can be right because 
looking at the transactions and attempted transactions across all the accounts he has raised 
a dispute about, I can see that his cards and PIN and were being used well past 2am and 
potentially until 3am.  As Mr D woke up the following morning with the cards in his 
possession, I think its reasonable to conclude that he was in the same place as the cards 
during the early hours.
This leads me to conclude that Mr D may not remember the events of that day clearly, and
so, his evidence may not carry the weight it ordinarily would. In addition, I cant see any
evidence of Mr Ds genuine transaction in the bar. It certainly does not appear to have been
made on any of the cards which this service has been looking in to. 
There were also no balance enquiries carried out which suggests that the person using the
card knew there was enough money in the account.
Ive also noted that when transactions were declined on Mr Ds HSBC card, other cards
from other accounts were then used for the same amounts. Again, not the actions of a
fraudster but someone who knows that they have an alternative way to make these
payments.
I note HSBC has submitted that there has been no clear compromise of Mr Ds PIN. I
have taken this into account  although I have attached very little weight to it in considering
the element of consent.
However, for the reasons Ive given above, I think Mr D authorised the disputed payment.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC did enough here to protect Mr Ds account  and I
think that it did. I dont think the successful transaction was so out of character on Mr Ds
account that HSBC ought to have been alerted to it. But I am pleased to see that the
subsequent payments triggered its fraud detection systems and were blocked.
So, in the circumstances, I think Mr D authorised the payment. He may have paid more thanhe thought he was and probably regrets it now  but he must take responsibility for his
actions. What that means is that I dont think HSBC has been unfair or unreasonable in 
refusing to refund.
With regard the offer of compensation for poor service, I think £150 is a fair and reasonable 
amount.  I can see that HSBC provided Mr D with the incorrect information on some 
occasions and for this, it is right that it makes an award.  I think the offer fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused on this occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman