DRN-2729344
The complaint
Mr H is represented by his financial adviser. He says his previous adviser, a partner firm of 
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP), caused him a financial loss and/or loss 
of opportunity (leading to a financial loss) as follows:
In 2018 the SJP partner obtained, without his consent, a Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value (CETV) from the provider of his Defined Benefits (DB) pension but failed to 
give him pension transfer advice on it and failed to do the minimum of informing him 
about it.
In 2019, and with the help of his financial adviser, he pursued and completed a 
transfer from his DB pension. In doing so, he had to pay a fee for a new CETV 
because it was requested within 12 months of the previous CETV that had been 
obtained by the SJP partner. In addition, the second CETV was around £13,000 less 
than the first, and it was at this reduced value that his pension was transferred.
He would have pursued the transfer earlier (in 2018) had he been informed about the 
first CETV, so the fee he paid for the second would have been avoided and the loss 
in value within the second would also have been avoided. He claims compensation 
for both.
What happened
SJPs position on the complaint is that: 
Mr H gave prior consent for the partner to obtain information about his DB pension 
benefits and he did so within a signed letter of authority; 
In response to the partners enquiries about his benefits, the DB pension provider 
provided the CETV without an express request for it; 
The objective of the partners service and advice to Mr H was limited to investment of 
an inheritance he received at the time, it did not relate to or extend to transferring his 
pension; 
Information about his DB pension benefits was relevant to advice on how to invest 
the inheritance, that was the only objective so there was no cause for the partner to 
share or advise on the CETV (or to advise on a pension transfer); 
Even if the CETV was discussed the partner would not have recommended a 
pension transfer because it would not have been considered suitable, it had always 
been Mr Hs intention to rely on his DB pension benefits in retirement and he had not 
indicated an interest in transferring out of his DB pension;
It has offered Mr H £500 to cover the £330 fee he paid for the second CETV and to 
serve as a goodwill payment (in terms of the remainder) for the trouble and upset the 
matter caused him.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Mr Hs adviser submitted comments on his initial view and that prompted a second 
view in which the investigator addressed those comments. Overall, the investigators main 
findings broadly supported the points made by SJP. He acknowledged some points in favour 
of Mr H  that the partners request for a transfer value of the DB pension was uncalled for, 
given that such information was remote to the inheritance investment subject of advice; and 
that the request was also unnecessary given that Mr H expressed no interest in a transfer at 
the time. However, he considered that the consequence of these actions was limited to the 
CETV fee Mr H had to pay in 2019, which SJPs already covers.
Mr Hs adviser disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In the main, he vehemently 
argued that Mr H would certainly have been interested in, and would have pursued, a 
pension transfer in 2018 if the SJP partner had shared the first CETV with him; that this is 
evident from the fact that the transfer he executed in 2019 was done in an insistent client 
context, whereby Mr H transferred out of the DB pension contrary to the advisers 
recommendation to retain it; that Mr Hs interest in a potential transfer in 2018 was implicit in 
the authority he gave the partner to obtain information about the DB pension; and that, at the 
very least, the partner was obliged to share the first CETV with Mr H, as a matter of sharing 
an important and relevant discovery with a client that could be of interest or that could 
warrant further enquiry and, as a regulatory minimum, the partner was obliged to give 
transfer advice (or refer to a source of specialist transfer advice) having triggered the 
transfer consideration process by obtaining the CETV.
The investigator was not persuaded by these arguments. He referred to the regulators 
position that transfers from DB pensions are inherently unsuitable unless there is evidence a 
transfer is in a clients best interests. He noted that this is reflected in SJPs claim that the 
partner would not have recommended a transfer to Mr H; in the fact his adviser, who 
assisted with the 2019 transfer, concedes that he too advised him against the transfer before 
he insisted upon it; and in evidence that another former adviser had also advised against the 
transfer in 2019. The investigator did not consider that the first CETV triggered a transfer 
consideration process because it had been obtained in error and the partner was not 
engaged in giving pension transfer advice. He also noted evidence that the option of 
transferring out of the DB pension was known to Mr H by July 2018 when the pension 
provider wrote to him in this respect and that whilst no transfer value was confirmed in the 
letter such knowledge ought to have made him express an interest if he had such an interest 
 but he did not express any interest in a transfer in 2018 and his testimony has been that he 
acquired that interest in January 2019.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
reasons broadly similar to those he explained. 
At the centre of Mr Hs case are the claims that the SJP partner should have shared the first 
CETV with him and should have advised him (or signposted him to a source of specialist 
advice) on the CETV and/or on the transfer of his DB pension. 
I acknowledge the additional arguments and scenarios that have been presented by both 
sides in the above respect, but they broadly amount to subjective and hypothetical 
speculation about what each party would and/or would not have done  or how each side 
would and/or would not have behaved, or what events would and/or would not have followed 
 if the first CETV was shared with Mr H. I consider these arguments to be a secondary 
matter. Primarily, the issues to determine are whether (or not) the SJP partner was obliged 
to share the first CETV with Mr H and then, if so, whether (or not) he was obliged to advise 
upon it (or to refer him to a source of advice on it). In the absence of these obligations, the arguments about what would and/or would not have happened after disclosure of the first 
CETV appears to be redundant. 
It should be beyond dispute that in 2018 Mr H and the SJP partner were engaged, only, in 
the consideration of investment advice for his inheritance. Available evidence from the 
advice event supports this finding. Whilst his overall financial circumstances (including his 
DB pension) were relevant to the investment advice that was under consideration  and 
reasonably so  his DB pension, in isolation, was not the subject matter of the advice and 
was not even directly related to the subject matter of advice.
It is in this context that the investigator criticised the way the partner sought and obtained 
information about the DB pension. I agree with the criticism. SJP has highlighted that no 
explicit request was ever made for a CETV, so it says it was sent to the partner in error. The 
former (fact) is true, but the latter (argument) is unconvincing. The nature of the partners 
request appears to have prompted the DB pension provider to consider that provision of the 
CETV was called for. A copy of the partners request to the provider has been shared with 
this service and it includes over 20 separate questions on a variety of details about the DB 
pension. I consider that many of the questions were surplus to requirement  the 
requirement at the time being no more than key/basic information about the DB pension and 
its benefits, in order to assist in the partners overall view on suitability of his inheritance 
investment advice to Mr H. The questions  which appear to have been interpreted by the 
provider as being transfer related  also appear to have resulted in production of the CETV.
In the above context, the SJP partner holds responsibility for the unnecessary production of 
the first CETV and for the direct consequence, faced by Mr H, when his need for the second 
CETV arose (in 2019) and he had to pay for it. That payment would not have been required 
but for production of the first CETV. It is quite clear that SJP has conceded responsibility for 
this, it has offered to cover the payment Mr H made and it has offered around £150 more as 
a goodwill gesture of apology for the trouble and upset he faced in this respect. Like the 
investigator, I am satisfied that the offer fairly concludes this aspect of the complaint.
Having mistakenly obtained the first CETV, on balance, I do not consider that the partner 
had an obligation to share it with Mr H. The fact that it was mistakenly obtained serves as 
one reason for this finding. There was never an instruction from Mr H or an intention within 
the inheritance investment advice exercise to obtain the CETV. There was no cause to share 
it with him. The idea had been for the partner to inform himself about relevant details of the 
DB pension in the course of informing himself about Mr Hs financial circumstances. The 
outcome of his enquiries to the pension provider was therefore for the partners benefit, and 
the inheritance investment advice that was to follow would then have been for Mr Hs benefit.
I consider that SJP has made a credible argument about Mr H having no interest in a 
transfer, in 2018. His initial complaint submissions appear to confirm this. It is his account 
that his interest in exploring a transfer arose in 2019 only after receiving feedback from a 
friend who had pursued the same or something similar. In addition, and as the investigator 
noted, there is evidence of the pension providers notice to him in July 2018 with reference to 
the option of transferring his pension. I share the investigators acknowledgments that the 
notice did not include transfer value information and that transfer value information Mr H 
subsequently learnt about in 2019 possibly played a role in engaging his interest. However, 
the July 2018 notice was enough for him to have explored the idea of transferring his 
pension  including exploration of the potential transfer value  if it was something of interest 
to him. There is no evidence of him seeking such exploration at the time.
Overall, on balance, given that the first CETV was mistakenly obtained, given that it was not 
a part of the inheritance investment advice that was sought by Mr H and was under 
consideration by the SJP partner and given that Mr H had no interest in transferring his DB pension at the time (despite being aware that he could explore such a transfer), I do not 
consider that the partner was obliged to share the first CETV with him.
I understand Mr Hs advisers point about a minimum expectation that an adviser will share a 
discovery that could be of interest to a client or could warrant further enquiry by or for a 
client. However, I disagree that this existed in Mr Hs case in the form of an obligation. The 
SJP partner could have shared the first CETV with Mr H. However, there is an important 
distinction between what he could have done and what he was obliged to do. The present 
complaint is reliant upon the existence of an obligation to share the first CETV so the notion 
that the partner could have shared the first CETV with Mr H fails, on its own, to establish the 
complaint. As addressed above, the partner was not obliged to share the first CETV.
The above conclusion(s) means the secondary matter of what would or would not have 
happened if the first CETV had been shared need not be addressed. 
However, I make the following observations: the regulators position at the time disfavoured 
transfers from a DB pension without good reasons to do so, and without reasons which were 
in the clients best interests; both sides are agreed on this; two separate advisers (Mr Hs 
current representative and a previous adviser before him) advised Mr H against the transfer 
in 2019; it is plausible that the SJP partner would not have favoured a transfer in 2018 and I 
consider SJPs assertion of this to be credible, I have seen no evidence that a transfer 
(leading to the loss of very valuable pension benefits) would have been in Mr Hs best 
interests at the time; furthermore, there is evidence that the partner was not in a position to 
advise on transfer in 2019 when Mr H approached him for that purpose, so the same would 
probably have been the case in 2018; these considerations are not only about what Mr H 
would have done with the first CETV, they are also about what would have been suitable for 
him to do with the first CETV, had he considered a transfer; and available evidence suggests 
that, more likely (than not), it would not have been suitable for him to transfer out of the DB 
pension in 2018, despite the higher transfer value in that year, so it appears that no finding 
(or potential finding) of a missed suitable transfer opportunity could reasonably be made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman