DRN-1914038
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr J took out a loan of £300 with Satsuma. The loan was repayable over six 
months and the monthly repayments were around £95. Mr J didnt repay the loan. 
Mr J says that Satsuma didnt verify his income and expenditure. He says that he referred to 
his gross, rather than net, income by mistake. Mr J says that he struggled with gambling and 
that his current account was constantly overdrawn. He says that his financial difficulties 
caused his health to suffer. Mr J says that hes now agreed a debt management plan. He 
wants a refund of all interest and charges. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Satsuma had 
treated Mr J unfairly. Mr J didnt agree and asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr J could repay his loan sustainably  not just 
whether the loan repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
When Mr J applied for the loan, he told Satsuma that his monthly income was £2,500 and 
his monthly expenditure was £750. Satsuma revised Mr Js monthly expenditure upwards 
and calculated that it was just under £2,000 in total, which left him with monthly disposable 
income of over £500. So, it proceeded on the basis that Mr J could afford the monthly 
repayment of around £95.  I think that was a reasonable conclusion.
Mr J refers to giving details of his gross, rather than net income by mistake. I think that 
Satsuma was entitled to rely on what Mr J said about his income. Its unfortunate that Mr J 
overstated his income by mistake, but I dont think that Satsuma is responsible for that. 
Satsuma carried out credit checks before lending to Mr J. The results of a credit check by a 
prospective lender are not in the same detail as Mr J can see from his own credit report. 
There was nothing in Satsumas credit check results that should have stopped it from 
lending to Mr J.
Based on what Ive seen and given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Js 
circumstances at the time and bearing in mind this was Mr Js only loan with Satsuma, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask Mr J for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr J provided or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware of, which meant 
it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr J said. So, Satsuma wouldnt 
have been aware of Mr Js gambling or overdraft. Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but there are no grounds to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman