DRN-2642492
The complaint
Mr F complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to compensate him for a car which he 
had acquired with an incorrect mileage reading on the clock.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In late 2013 the recorded mileage dropped by some 67,000 miles. Nobody has been able to 
establish how this came about. However, the MOT details which are readily available online 
show this alteration. It would appear that this was not drawn to Mr Fs attention, but he also 
accepted the odometer at face value. I have not seen the sales agreement, but these 
normally contain an exclusion which states that the mileage on the cars odometer is not 
guaranteed. 
I presume there was a service record and the mileage at each service should have been 
recorded. I havent seen any advertising material on which Mr F may have relied when 
acquiring the car. Nor am I aware of what Mr F was told about the car.
So, while it was possible for both the dealer and Mr F to have checked the mileage, I do not 
have sufficient evidence to show that Mr F was misled. 
Mr F has voluntarily terminated the agreement and so has not lost out by having to sell the 
car at a price which was lower than he had reason to expect. He says he must have paid 
more than the car was worth since it had covered more miles than recorded. It was over 
eight years old and he paid £4,675. Although there are many variables when valuing a car, it 
would appear that the sum paid was not particularly high for this make and model so it is 
hard to say he paid over the odds due to the wrong mileage being used.
I can see that it passed its MOT during the period of his ownership and Mr F has not told us 
that he has encountered any problems with the car than might have stemmed from the 
incorrect mileage being used. If, as has been suggested, the alteration in the recorded 
mileage was due to the engine being replaced then this may have contributed to its 
continued success in passing the MOT. In short Mr F paid what appears to have been a fair 
price for a car he was able to use and having voluntarily terminated his finance agreement 
has not lost out.
In conclusion, I can understand Mr Fs surprise and concern when he discovered the 
mileage discrepancy, but I cannot safely conclude that he has suffered any loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman