DRN-3850079
The complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) reimbursed her when she fell victim 
to a scam but then later re-debited the funds.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Ms J has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
In deciding whether Barclays should reimburse the funds lost to the scam, Ive 
thought first about whether Barclays should have done more to protect Ms J from 
falling victim to the scam at the time, before considering its later actions.
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Ms J authorised the payments from her Barclays debit card account, albeit not 
realising she was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  is that shes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Barclays to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, where such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold Barclays liable.
Ive considered whether Barclays ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because each of the 
payments were made to the same recipient - a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. 
And the payments were all relatively small, ranging from £55 to £410, across five 
payments, with the highest amount paid in one day being a total of £420. I recognise 
this was a lot of money for Ms J to lose  and Im sorry that she has done. But I dont 
consider these amounts  individually, or even in total, (£1,135)  to be high enough 
to be thought unusual or out of character. And while I recognise the payments put 
Ms J further into her overdraft, this wasnt unusual for the way she generally operated 
her account at the time.
So, in summary, I cant fairly say that these payments should have triggered 
Barclays fraud alert systems due to the recipient of the payments, the amounts 
involved, and the way Ms J operated her account in the months prior to the scam. 
So, I dont think Barclays acted in error by not intervening.
In terms of trying to recover the funds, I note that Barclays raised a chargeback. But 
it was successfully defended on the basis that the merchant carried out the service it 
was required to. So, I dont think Barclays could reasonably have done more to 
recover the funds. 
I know that Ms J is unhappy that Barclays reimbursed the funds, only to re-debit them 
later. I can appreciate how disappointing this would have been for Ms J. The funds 
were temporarily refunded while a chargeback was being investigated. But as the 
chargeback ultimately failed, Ms J was then liable for the payment. I cant fairly say 
that Barclays was wrong to re-debit the funds upon the conclusion of the chargeback.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman