DRN-2887477
The complaint
Mr C complains as a director of E, a limited company, that Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited rejected a claim on Es business protection insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Es web application went offline on a Friday evening. E contacted its provider 
but says it received no support from them over the weekend. 
E notified Hiscox, who referred E to a firm of solicitors to manage the response to the 
incident. Es IT provider informed E that a failure with its systems caused the latest renewal 
of its server to fail, and as a result Es database and server was deleted along with the 
backups. 
E set up a new server with a new provider and used its own a local backups to get its service 
up and running again, while also dealing with the consequences of the loss of service for five 
days. As a result of the incident, E lost data relating to a number of its customers and 
employees. E notified the Information Commissioners Officer of the data loss.
E obtained a report which set out measures it needed to put in place and then made a claim 
on the policy. E said the claim was in relation to repeat event mitigation' as it wanted to put 
in place measures to mitigate the risk of the same problem happening again.
Hiscox said the claim wasnt covered. E complained about the decision but received a final 
response from Hiscox confirming its decision. So E brought the complaint to this service. E 
told Hiscox it would proceed with some of the actions and then seek to recover any costs.
Our investigator said Hiscox decision was fair and in line with the policy terms; he thought 
the actions E had taken would help to minimise any losses should the same event happen 
again, but they wouldnt stop or minimise the chance of the event happening.
E disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. On behalf of E, Mr C says it now 
has a new provider, and their arrangements include measures such as a disaster recovery 
service and 24 hour support which means E would be back up and running in minutes 
should an incident occur. 
Mr C also says the new infrastructure includes advanced server configuration and protection, 
with a further back up if required. Mr C says this all means E has taken steps to mitigate the 
risk of a recurrence and so the repeat event mitigation section of the policy has been 
triggered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides a range of cover for E. In relation to this claim the relevant section of 
cover is set out in the cyber and data part of the policy as follows:
we will pay the reasonable and necessary costs and expenses incurred by you with our 
prior agreement to:
1. upgrade existing hardware or software forming part of your computer system; and
2. obtain risk management advice, 
which is necessary to prevent or minimise the chance of a reoccurrence of the event that 
gave rise to the payment under this section.
Mr C has agreed that the crux of the matter is whether the steps it took (and the costs 
incurred) were needed to prevent or minimise the chance of a recurrence of the event that 
happened here. So thats what I have focused on.
The steps E has taken include switching to a new provider with a new infrastructure with 
advanced server configuration and protection, and a further back up if required. It also has 
measures such as a disaster recovery service and 24 hour support which means E would be 
back up and running quickly if something like this happens again. 
Having thought about this carefully, I agree the measures in place would provide better 
support and a quicker response should a further incident happen. But this relates to 
mitigating the effects of a further incident rather than preventing it from happening in the first 
place. 
The event in this case was a problem with the providers system which led to data being 
deleted. It doesnt seem to me that the steps E has taken would prevent that happening; 
rather they would reduce the impact on E if it did happen.
I also note that the policy term refers to the costs of hardware or software forming part of Es 
computer system. So this wouldnt include any charges E pays to its new provider for the 
systems they have in place. And the other steps include measures relating to data 
compliance and staff training, which again wouldnt be things that prevent an issue with the 
providers systems. 
Ive also thought about whether the cost of obtaining the report which recommended the 
measures should be covered. But again, E would need to show the advice was necessary 
to prevent or minimise the chance of a reoccurrence of the event. Since the advice relates 
to measures that would reduce the impact of a further event, rather than preventing it 
happening, my view is that this cost wouldnt be covered either. 
I appreciate that the event was very serious for E and dont doubt the impact it had. But 
cover is only available of the requirements set out in the policy terms are met and, for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont think they were. On that basis, Im satisfied Hiscox decision was 
fair and in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman