DRN-2730493
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, 
(PPI), policy. Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept 
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs A took out the PPI at the same time as taking out a store card in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs A 
disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs As case.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, but Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs A says that she took the PPI over the phone. But AXA says that it was sold in the store. 
I find that I cant be sure which, if either, of these is correct. But in any event this doesnt 
change my decision.
I think that Mrs A knew that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen the store card application form signed by her. This has a box in it headed 
Payment Protection. Under that it says the applicant should tick the box in the section if 
they want the cover. I can see that that box has been ticked. If the sale was in store, its 
possible that someone other than Mrs A marked the box in this way. But Im satisfied that 
Mrs A would have had the opportunity to review the form before signing it and could have 
queried why it had been completed like that if she hadnt wanted the cover.
Mrs A also says that she felt pressured into taking out the PPI. But she is recalling 
something that happened over 20 years ago. So I dont think that I can rely solely on her 
memory. She has told us that she ticked the [PPI box] as she was advised. But, without 
other details of what AXA said or did during the sale, I dont find that this is enough for me to 
conclude that AXA put undue pressure on Mrs A to take the policy
Because the sale was so long ago, we dont have a copy of the actual policy terms that 
applied to Mrs As card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same insurers that were 
in use for other store cards, that we do have, from nearest the time of this sale. I think that 
it is reasonable to assume that similar terms would have been likely to have applied to 
Mrs As policy.
I dont think that AXA gave Mrs A a specific recommendation that the PPI was suitable for 
her. So it would have left it up to her to decide whether she wanted the cover. But AXA 
still had to give Mrs A clear, fair and not-misleading information about the PPI so she 
could make an informed decision as to whether to take it. But even if the information AXA 
gave her wasnt as clear as it ought to have been, I still think Mrs A would have taken out 
the cover. I say this, because looking at what I know about Mrs As circumstances at the 
time, and the policy terms Ive referred to above:
Mrs A was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Mrs A wasnt likely to have been affected by any of the policys main limitations 
and restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
Mrs A has told us that she was entitled to some sick pay from her employer. And that 
she didnt have any other insurance or savings that could have helped her make her 
monthly store card payments had she not been earning. Following a successful 
claim, however, the PPI would likely to have paid out 15% of Mrs As store card 
balance a month had Mrs A not been working because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. And the payments would likely to have been made until 
Mrs A returned to work, or until her balance had been settled, whichever occurred 
first. They would also have been paid out in addition to any to any sick pay Mrs A 
was entitled to. Leaving that available to help her meet her other expenses while she 
wasnt working. So I think the PPI could have been of use to Mrs A.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs A couldnt afford the premiums. In any 
event, had she later felt that she no longer wanted the PPI or that it was 
unaffordable for her, Mrs A could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, 
as it was paid for monthly.
So I find that Mrs A hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done 
wrong during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
As Ive said Ive considered everything Mrs A has told us including that she has 
suffered a serious medical condition and has had to fight to get back to work. It seems 
to me that she has expended a great deal of effort and determination to make her life 
as normal as possible after this set back. But this has no bearing on whether the PPI 
was mis-sold at a time which was before the condition arose. And so it doesnt change 
my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman