DRN-2758525
The complaint
Mrs T brings this complaint on behalf of E (a company). E complains that HSBC UK Bank plc 
(HSBC) unfairly charged them for exchange rate losses following duplicated international 
bank transfers.
What happened
Mrs T says E made an internet banking currency account transfer payment from their Euro 
business bank account to their US dollar bank account for Euro 160,000, on late Friday 
afternoon but on checking this, it didnt show as a pending payment. In view of this E made 
the payment again on Monday morning but Mrs T says this payment still didnt appear as 
pending on Es online banking system. Mrs T says following a phone call with HSBC she 
was still left unclear why either of the payments were not showing on her system so E made 
a third currency account transfer payment of Euros 120, 000, later that Monday morning. 
Mrs T says E made this third payment as she believed there may have been an issue with 
the authority levels preventing the previous payments going through, although HSBC werent 
able to help her understand why there was a problem. 
Mrs T says she then telephoned HSBC to discuss the problems again and was advised to 
cancel the payments but by doing so she has incurred exchange rate losses of in excess of 
six thousand euros. Mrs T feels its unfair for E to suffer these losses as HSBC werent able 
to tell them why the payments hadnt shown in Es online banking system and HSBC should 
refund the losses incurred as a result.
HSBC says while they could have been clearer where these pending currency account 
transfer payments appear in the online banking screens, E took the decision to make the 
payments. HSBC says the resulting exchange rate losses are a result of the difference in 
exchange rates between the original payments and their reversal and this was explained to 
Mrs T before the payment reversals were authorised by her.
E were unhappy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Es complaint. The 
investigator felt E had made the decision to make the currency account transfer payments 
and while it would have been useful for E to have been told more clearly where these 
payments could be viewed online, this was detailed in the online banking screens. The 
investigator says HSBC acted fairly when accepting Es instructions to reverse these 
payments and Mrs T was made aware of the consequences of potential exchange rate 
losses. 
E werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mrs T to discover the level of loss incurred as a 
result of reversing three international currency account transfers. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider whether HSBC were responsible for the duplication of the currency 
account transfers and if the resulting exchange rate losses were charged fairly. 
What happened here was on Friday 8 November 2019 Mrs T instigated a currency transfer 
from Es euro bank account to their US dollar bank account for euros 160,000. On early 
Monday 11 November 2019 as this payment wasnt showing as pending, Mrs T made the 
payment again. When this still didnt show she telephoned HSBC to establish why these 
payments werent showing on her online banking system. Mrs T says during that call HSBC 
couldnt give her a defined reason why the payments werent showing and questioned if this 
was perhaps to do with the level of payment authority, but HSBC remained non-committal on 
this. Mrs T then made a third payment for a lower sum of euros 120,000 later that morning.  
Later that day, Mrs T then rang HSBC as she realised these payments had been duplicated 
with a value date of the 12 November 2019, which Mrs T says was due to a bank holiday in 
the USA, but no one at HSBC had alerted her to this.
Mrs T says she feels that she wouldnt have made these payments if HSBC had been able 
to explain to her the reasons why the payments werent showing as pending on her online 
banking systems and the cost involved for the exchange rate losses that followed were 
unreasonable. 
I understand Mrs Ts concerns here but the first thing to say is the first payment made on 
Friday 8 November 2019, was made after HSBCs cut off time which would have been 
known to E, and this would be why the payment didnt process that day. The payment on 
Monday was again made by E on the assumption Fridays payment hadnt gone through as it 
didnt appear in Es pending payments, but Mrs T went ahead at this point and made the 
second payment before she checked this with HSBC. In view of that I cant say that HSBC 
can be held responsible for the duplication of the payment here, after all it was Es decision 
to make the transfer without conducting any further enquiries as to why Fridays payment 
hadnt shown. 
The reasons for making the third payment are not as clear, as I understand Mrs T made a 
phone call to HSBC at some time before making the third currency account transfer for a 
lower amount, of euros 120,000. Unfortunately, HSBC do not have a recording available of 
this call. That said, in a conversation with the investigator Mrs T says during that telephone 
conversation with HSBC, she couldnt recall if she was advised to make the third payment 
and says they were non- committal about what the problems were - or if the issue was to do 
with a payment level authority, as she believed. Having considered this, I cant see any 
evidence to suggest HSBC would have advised E they should make a further currency 
transfer payment knowing Mrs T had made two payments earlier on. On balance and in all 
probability, based on the information available to this service, I am satisfied this was more of 
a case HSBC not explaining fully to Mrs T, why the payments werent showing as pending, in 
the online banking system.  
Mrs T says she believes the issues were a result of it being a bank holiday in the USA, but E 
were not alerted to this. I understand the point Mrs T makes but I dont feel its reasonable to 
expect all of HSBC staff in various departments to be aware of the holiday dates in the US or 
for me to tell them this must be highlighted on their online banking systems. While I agree it would have been beneficial for E to have been advised where to search on the online 
banking system to show the payment history, there were other options for E rather than 
making other transfers. I say this because E would have been able to reference the 
Business Internet Banking (BIB) Managing Service Guide. In this guide under section 6.3 
Transfers, it states:  
All inter-account transfers involving a foreign currency will carry a value date. The value 
date may not be the same as the date of execution of the transfer. This may result in the 
balances shown on your account taking up to 24 hours (or next working day) to update. You 
shouldnt try and action another transfer, as this could lead to you being liable for loss on a 
duplicate transfer. You can check weve received your instruction by viewing Activity history 
in the Manage users section of the menu. The Activity history function shows all 
instructions weve received from you via Business Internet Banking.
It follows I am satisfied the offer of £200 by way of an apology to E for not explaining this 
fully to Mrs T, is reasonable in the circumstances given there were other options open to 
them before committing to making the other currency account transfers. I will leave it with E 
to contact HSBC to arrange the payment of this sum, if not already paid.
As far as Es concerns regarding the extent of the exchange rate losses, its worth 
mentioning that I have seen a transcript of the phone call between Mrs T and HSBC in the 
afternoon of Monday 11 November 2019. In that call it is made clear that there could be 
potential exchange rate losses and while Mrs T wasnt happy with this at the time, she did 
ask HSBC to recall the payments none the less. The investigator has provided E with the 
breakdown of the exchange rate differences between the buying and selling rates of 
exchange and I cant say these are incorrect, while accepting this would have been an 
unwelcome cost to the business for the duplication of these currency account transfers.
I do understand this was an unfortunate set of circumstances here and while E will be 
disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman