DRN-2450759
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc refused to accept a cash payment to her credit 
card account. 
Mrs B is represented by her son, Mr B
What happened
Mrs B has a credit card account with Barclaycard. Barclaycard is a trading name for Barclays 
Bank UK plc.
Mrs B says that Mr B visited a branch of Barclays in November 2019. He wanted to make 
the monthly payment detailed in Mrs Bs October 2019 credit card statement. He offered a 
cash payment. Mrs B says he was told that cash payments couldnt be accepted from 
someone who was not the account holder unless that person had a duly completed bank 
giro credit (BGC) slip. Mrs B says Barclaycard doesnt include a BGC slip with its 
statements.
Mr B complained to Barclays about what had happened. Mrs B also raised a complaint with 
Barclaycard.
Barclaycard investigated her complaint. It said it had stopped sending BGC slips with 
statements in 2011. Mrs Bs account hadnt been opened until September 2018. So, her 
statements had never included a BGC slip. Barclaycard said Mrs B had been paying her 
credit card account by direct debit until October 2019. Shed cancelled the direct debit at that 
time. It said it offered other ways to pay which were detailed on the statement.
Mrs B said Mr B was told a BGC slip could be provided to her to facilitate cash payments in 
the future. Barclaycard said this information was incorrect. It apologised to Mrs B and offered 
to pay her £70 as a gesture of goodwill and a further £25 by way of compensation for the 
delay shed experienced when it dealt with her concerns. Mrs B accepted this offer and her 
account was credited with the payment on 30 December 2019.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service in May 2020. At that time Barclays stated that 
because Mr B was not its customer (or potential customer) he was not an eligible 
complainant under our Rules. So, Mrs B asked for the complaint to be registered in her 
name with Mr B as her representative.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said Barclays had decided not to accept 
cash payments from third parties. It wasnt our role to require it to change its procedures. 
She said Barclays had provided alternative ways for the credit card bill to be paid and it had 
paid compensation (£95 in total) for the delays that had happened. She thought this was fair 
and reasonable. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the complaint that she and Mr B had registered with our service 
was about Barclays decision not to accept cash payments. She said her complaint about 
Barclaycard had already been resolved to her satisfaction.
Our investigator considered what Mrs B said. She said that Barclays and Barclaycard were 
both part of the same group. The issues here were interlinked. She said Barclays had used 
its commercial judgement not to accept cash payments from third parties by way of payment 
for Barclaycard customers. It hadnt done anything wrong when it had declined the cash 
payment. So, she didnt change her view. 
Mrs B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is the case that this complaint was first brought to our service by Mr B. He complained to 
Barclays on the date he attempted to make the payment to Mrs Bs account. He was given a 
complaint reference by Barclays and a final response letter was sent to him at that time 
stating that his complaint had been resolved and closed. The letter also stated that he could 
refer his complaint to our service within six months. He was told that further information 
could be found on our website about eligibility criteria.
Mr B did refer his complaint to our service within six months. Barclays told us it thought he 
was not an eligible complainant under our Rules because he was not a customer or potential 
customer. Our investigator informed Mr B about this and Mrs B then submitted the complaint 
in her name with Mr B registered as her representative. So, the complaint was progressed in 
Mrs Bs sole name.
Having set out the background here, Id just point out that in this decision Ill only be 
considering Mrs Bs complaint about Barclays refusal to permit a cash payment to be made 
to her credit card account by Mr B.
It is the case that Barclays and Barclaycard are part of the same group. And, the issue Mrs B 
has raised about Barclays refusal to accept the cash payment from Mr B is linked to how 
Barclaycard responded to her complaint to it about BGC slips not being included with her 
credit card statements.
Ive looked at the credit card statement. It includes a Ways to pay section. And Ive noted 
this includes the following wording:
CASH OR CHEQUE AT A BANK
-Pay in cash at a Barclays branch by [date]
-Pay cash at any other bank by [date]
-If your payment includes cheques, pay by [date]
Other banks may charge you for making a payment to us.
So, I can see why Mrs B says she didnt understand why the cash payment at a Barclays 
branch was refused. Barclays says it would have accepted the cash payment if Mrs B had 
been in the branch. But its policy is not to accept cash payments from third parties. It says 
that is the policy, even though, as here, Mr B had a copy of the credit card statement
Mrs B says, because of her circumstances, she asked Mr B to make this payment for her. 
And, she says there is no law which states that someone else cant make cash payments 
into her account on her behalf. She thinks Barclays should be required to change its policy.
As our investigator said, our service is not the regulator. So, its not our role to ask Barclays 
to change its policy or procedure. But when looking at Mrs Bs complaint, I can consider whether Barclays policy has been implemented in a way which is fair and reasonable to Mrs 
B.
I can see that Mrs B had been making her credit card payment for some time by direct debit. 
Its not clear why that arrangement was cancelled prior to the date when the October 2019 
payment was due to be made. But Barclays told her she could set up a new direct debit 
arrangement for future payments. It also said it would accept payment by bank transfer, 
debit card or Mrs B could post a cheque to it. 
It is the case that Mrs B has been able to use alternative ways to pay her credit card since 
October 2019. I can see that she was able to continue to make payments on time in the 
months which followed. So, I dont think Barclays policy means she has been unduly 
inconvenienced or that she cant make payments or manage her account. 
Mrs B has already accepted compensation of £95 (in total) from Barclaycard because she 
said it misinformed her about providing BGC slips for future payments and for delays in 
dealing with her concerns. 
Having considered everything here, I think Barclays has implemented its policy fairly and 
reasonably. Mrs B has been able to make payments to her account by alternative means. I 
dont require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman