DRN-3794352
The complaint
Ms K complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) and their decision to 
decline two separate claims she made on her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K held a gadget insurance policy, underwritten by AGI. In May 2022, Ms K registered a 
drone and a games console on this policy.
In July 2022, Ms K contacted AGI to raise make a claim for both devices, explaining both 
had been lost. But AGI declined both claims. They explained they dont provide cover for 
drones and that drones werent a selectable option on their website. So, they refused the 
claim and refunded the premiums Ms K had paid towards the policy for this device. And they 
didnt think Ms K had taken reasonable care of the games console, as shed left it in a bag 
on public transport. So, they thought the claim was excluded under the terms and conditions 
of the policy and again, refused. Ms K was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms K didnt think AGI had declined either claim fairly. She didnt think that AGIs website 
made it clear that drones werent covered. And as AGI had taken payment for the policy, she 
thought the claim should be accepted. And Ms K didnt think AGI were fair to refuse her 
claim for the games console, as she thought shed made a mistake when losing the console 
and that, if this meant she hadnt taken reasonable care, then she didnt think the policy was 
designed to cover any claim for lost items. So, she wanted this claim to be accepted as well, 
plus compensation for the upset shed been caused as she felt AGI had accused her of 
acting fraudulently.
AGI didnt agree. They thought their website made it reasonably clear drones werent 
covered and that the refund of Ms Ks premium was fair. They also thought theyd acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Ms Ks claim for her lost 
games console, as they didnt think leaving the console on public transport was evidence of 
Ms K taking reasonable care. So, they thought their decision to decline the claim was fair. 
And because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms K remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised why Ms K 
felt as though shed took reasonable steps to insure the drone. But they didnt think AGIs 
website provided an option to select drone cover, and so, they didnt think there was an 
insured event for AGI to accept. And so, they didnt think AGI had acted unfairly when 
declining the claim. Our investigator also thought AGIs decision to decline the claim for the 
games console was fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Finally, our 
investigator didnt think AGI directly accused Ms K of acting fraudulently and that theyd 
acted as per their usual standard process. So, they didnt think AGI needed to do anything 
more.
Ms K didnt agree. She maintained her belief the claim for the games console should be 
accepted. And she stated the premiums relating to the drone hadnt been refunded to her. 
Our investigator asked AGI to provide evidence that the premiums had been refunded, which 
we received. To date, Ms K hasnt provided evidence to show this refund hasnt been 
refunded into her account. As Ms K remained unhappy, her complaint has been referred to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms K. I recognise she took 
out the gadget insurance policy to help protect her financially in a situation where her drone 
or games console was lost, stolen or damaged. And as both devices were lost, I appreciate 
why Ms K would assume her claims would be accepted and so, when they werent, I can 
understand the upset this wouldve caused.
But for me to say AGI should reverse their original claims decisions, or compensate Ms K, I 
first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they 
failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claims. Or, 
if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the claim Ms K made for her drone. AGI say this claim was declined 
as they dont provide cover for drones and so, there wasnt an insurable event that they 
covered. So, theyve explained the policy shouldnt have been provided and theyve 
refunded Ms K the premium she paid. I recognise Ms K disputes this refund was received 
but AGI have provided evidence that satisfies me they issued the refund. So, without any 
further evidence from Ms K, I think its reasonable for me to assume it was refunded and 
received.
Ive seen the website Ms K wouldve visited when she took out the policy that she thought 
covered the drone. And Ive seen a list of the devices AGI insure, and I can see that drones 
werent stated specifically. Ms K says she selected the option for cameras, before listing the 
drone make and model. So, I can understand why Ms K feels she acted fairly, as the drone 
she had did contain a camera as part of its functionality.
But crucially, I dont think this means AGI do offer cover for drones. AGI have confirmed they 
class drones as an Unmanned Aviation Vehicle. And this option wasnt included in the list 
presented to Ms K when she came to take out an insurance policy. Had AGI offered 
insurance cover for drones, I wouldve expected this option to be there. And it wasnt. So, Im 
satisfied AGI dont offer cover for drones and because of this, I dont think Im able to direct 
AGI to pay Ms Ks claim for the device.
But I also wouldnt expect Ms K to pay for an insurance policy that wasnt valid. I can see 
AGI have recognised this, and refunded Ms K the premiums she paid. I think this offer is a 
fair one, which places Ms K back in the position she wouldve been in, had she not taken the 
policy out in the first place. So, I dont think AGI need to do anything more here.
Ive then thought about the declined claim for Ms Ks games console. AGI have declined this 
claim as they didnt think Ms K took reasonable care of the console.Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Ms K held which explains If you dont take 
care of your gadget then we may not pay your claim before providing several examples of 
what AGI felt was not taking care. This included If you knowingly leave your gadget where 
others can see it but you cannot and your gadget is then lost or stolen we may not pay your 
claim.
In this situation, Ms K left the console in her bag on public transport. And she left the bag 
unattended on the public transport after she got off without remembering it. So, the bag, and 
the console inside, was left where others could see it and Miss K couldnt. And it was either 
lost or stolen due to this situation. I dont think this is disputed.
What is disputed is whether its fair to say Ms K knowingly left the bag, and so the console, 
where others could see it. While I dont think Ms K intended to leave the bag, and so the 
console, on the bus, Ms K confirmed she left the bag and the console on the seat next to her 
when she was on the public transport. So, the bag and the console werent on her person in 
a public area. And this action meant that, when Ms K came to get off the transport, she 
forgot to take the bag with her. 
Considering this, and the terms of the policy, I think AGI have acted within them when 
declining the claim, as I dont think I can say they have acted unfairly when deciding Ms K 
didnt take care of the console. Had she taken reasonable care of the console within the bag, 
she wouldve taken the bag with her and not left it unattended in a public place. Because of 
this, I think AGI acted fairly when declining the claim and so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
Ive also thought about the fact Ms K received a letter addressed from AGIs fraud team. 
While I appreciate the concern this may have caused, I dont think this letter accused Ms K 
of acting fraudulently nor do I think it was intended to do so. AGI as an insurer have a duty to 
ensure the validity of any claim when they consider how to settle it and part of this can be to 
ensure the claim being brought is from the holder of the policy. This is standard industry 
process and I dont think AGI have done anything outside of this here. So, I dont think they 
need to do anything more regarding this.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms K was hoping for. And I recognise it leaves her in a 
position where she is without both her drone and her games console without the funds from 
AGI to replace them. But I dont think this is because of anything AGI has done wrong on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman