DRN-3242777
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with two personal loans.
What happened
 Mr N applied for the loans in 1996 and 2002 and was sold PPI at the same times. 
 
Originally BoS said that it had not mis-sold either PPI policy. However, following input from 
our adjudicator, BoS has now agreed to uphold that part of the complaint relating to the 2002 
sale and to offer standard redress in compensation. However, it has maintained that it did 
not mis-sell the PPI in 1996.
As there is disagreement about whether the 1996 policy was mis-sold, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator took the view that the 2002 policy was mis-sold due to Mr N having a pre-
existing medical condition that he started to suffer from in 1998. She didnt think that Mr N 
would have taken out the policy in 2002 if he had been made aware of the limitations and 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. As BoS has now agreed with the 
adjudicator I do not need to go into any more detail about the 2002 sale.
The 1996 sale
BoS no longer has any paperwork from the sale which is not surprising given how long ago it 
took place. However, from what we know of BoSs sales process at the time, the PPI would 
normally have been presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead 
me to conclude that something different happened in this case. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ns recollection of 
events has faded. Given the available evidence, I consider that Mr N would have known that 
he had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he most likely decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remember doing so.
BOS advised Mr N to take out the policy, so it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And 
from the information Ive seen, the policy was suitable for Mr N. Although Mr N would have 
received some sick pay from his employer, the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received full sick pay. And Mr N didnt 
have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Mr N has told us that he had back 
problems that began in 1993. However, he never missed any time off work due to his back 
problems so it seems unlikely that he would ever have needed to make a claim on the policy 
in relation to his back issues. So it seems to me that he had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide Mr N with as much information as it should have about 
the PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But as explained above, Mr N was 
unlikely to be affected by any of those issues. As Mr N had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing BoS needs to do to put things right in respect of the 1996 sale.
It follows that I do not uphold the complaint about the 1996 sale. However I do uphold the 
complaint about the 2002 sale.
Putting things right
In relation to the 2002 sale, BoS should put Mr N in the financial position he would be in now 
if he hadnt taken out PPI. Therefore BoS should:
Pay Mr N the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr 
N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ns complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
fair compensation in relation to the 2002 sale as detailed above, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman