DRN-3098574
The complaint
Mrs G complains about delays and errors when she asked Santander UK Plc to transfer her 
joint mortgage into her sole name.
What happened
Mrs G had a joint mortgage with her ex-partner. They separated and in 2021 Mrs G asked 
Santander to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. She says this took too long. Mrs G 
says Santander put the house into her ex-partners name and sent documents to him and his 
solicitor with her personal and financial information.
Our investigator said Santanders service had been poor and it had made errors, including 
putting the wrong name on the application and sending it to the wrong solicitor. Our 
investigator said there was no evidence Santander sent other documents such as bank 
statements to Mrs Gs ex-partner. He said Santander had apologised and offered £120 
compensation, and this was a fair response to Mrs Gs complaint.
Mrs G didnt agree that £120 was enough compensation. She said nine months was too long 
to process her application. And her ex-partner told her he received copies of her bank 
statements. This was particularly upsetting as they are in the midst of a divorce battle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G separated from her ex-partner some years ago and theyre in the process of 
divorcing. She says they arent on good terms. Mrs G wants the mortgage account to be 
transferred into her sole name and made a change of borrower application to Santander in 
early May 2021.
Ive looked carefully at the available evidence, to see what happened with Mrs Gs 
application and the information she provided to Santander.
Santander admits it addressed the mortgage offer (for the change of borrower application) to 
Mrs Gs ex-partner, and sent it to her ex-partners solicitors in early June 2021. Mrs G 
contacted Santander about this and Santander re-issued the mortgage offer correctly 
addressed to Mrs G in mid-June.
Mrs Gs ex-partner was, or would at some point have become, aware of the change of 
borrower application, as hed be directly affected by it. And some of the information in the 
mortgage offer  such as Mrs Gs address, which was the security property for their joint 
mortgage, and the mortgage balance  would already have been known to him. 
Mrs G said matters would be different if she had a restraining order against her ex-partner. 
However, Mrs G doesnt have a restraining order (or similar order) against her ex-partner. 
Santanders records dont suggest Mrs G had told it the relationship involved abuse.
Nonetheless, Mrs G was entitled to better service from Santander. Its understandable that 
Mrs G wouldnt have wanted the mortgage offer sent to her ex-partner or his solicitor. It 
might have contained information that she didnt want them to see, especially during their 
divorce, and that she quite rightly expected to remain private. 
The error with the mortgage offer also caused a delay of about two weeks in the correct 
mortgage offer being issued for the change of borrower process. However, I think its unlikely 
this affected the overall timing as the change of borrower process hadnt completed some 
months later. 
Mrs G told us her ex-partner called and told her he had her bank statements. I appreciate 
how upsetting this would have been. I asked Santander for its records and didnt see any 
evidence that Santander sent Mrs Gs bank statements to her ex-partner or his solicitors. 
Santander also confirmed this. I hope Mrs G can find some reassurance in this. And while 
Mrs G says Santander transferred the house into her ex-partners name theres no evidence 
to support this. 
Santander apologised for the error it did make  addressing the mortgage offer to Mrs Gs 
ex-partner and sending it to his solicitor. Santander issued the corrected mortgage offer to 
Mrs G about two weeks later. And it sent a cheque for £120 as compensation for the upset 
caused. Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as I find the apology and compensation 
offered by Santander UK Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman