DRN-3582897
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has mishandled his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for reimbursement of costs arising from a 
faulty kitchen worktop.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D ordered and paid for a kitchen to be fitted in his home. The cost of 
the total kitchen came to £2,751 and Mr D paid this amount via the credit card he held with 
Virgin Money.
Mr D says that within a short time the worktops started to show damage such as chipping 
even though they had only been subjected to usual use. In August 2020 he made a 
complaint to the retailer who arranged for an independent technician to visit Mr Ds home 
and inspect the worktops.
Mr D says that he didnt receive a copy of the technicians report but did receive an email 
from the retailer confirming the worktops were faulty. Mr D was requested to obtain quotes 
as to the cost of replacing the worktops which he then arranged.
Mr D supplied the quotes requested but raised some additional questions with the retailer 
which included what the position would be if the sink was damaged when removed (this had 
been raised with Mr D by the plumber who had provided the quote for this work) and whether 
he would be compensated if the area required retiling. Mr D also explained he wished to 
obtain a worktop from a different supplier. Although the quotes were acknowledged by the 
retailer it didnt answer Mr Ds questions. Mr D chased a response from the retailer via email 
and phone but didnt receive one until November 2020 when he was informed the retailer 
was looking at his quotes and queries.
In January 2021 Mr D was contacted by the retailer who said that it required the UTR 
numbers of the plumber and kitchen fitter to ensure the VAT included in the invoice was 
being properly charged. Mr D wasnt able to supply all of the required information though he 
explained why. He has had no further contact from the retailer.
In February 2021 Mr D made a formal complaint to the retailer as to is customer service 
when dealing with the matter of the faulty worktops. He also contacted Virgin Money to raise 
a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for reimbursement of the cost of 
the worktops and for the costs involved in replacing them. Virgin Money acknowledged 
receipt of his claim.
Mr D says he didnt receive any further contact from Virgin Money until August 2021 when it 
responded to a formal complaint, he made in respect of the time taken to resolve his section 
75 claim. Virgin Money didnt uphold that complaint as it said there was no time-limit in which 
decisions must be made as to a section 75 claim. It said the claim was with its Disputes 
Team.
Virgin Money says that during August 2021 it had requested further information from Mr D as 
it needed to see a copy of the sales invoice. It says Mr D didnt respond to this request and 
so it sent him a letter notifying him his claim had been declined. Virgin Money says it closed 
Mr Ds claim in September 2021.
Mr D complained to this service about the way Virgin Money had handled his claim. Our 
investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the evidence 
showed that the retailer had accepted liability for the faulty worktops and so she thought Mr 
Ds claim was straight forward. Our investigator said Virgin Money hadnt produced any 
evidence as to why there had been such a lengthy delay in dealing with the matter.
Our investigator said that although Virgin Money said it had closed Mr Ds claim following a 
lack of response from him, Mr D had said there hadnt been any contact from Virgin Money. 
She said she hadnt seen any evidence of the contact made by Virgin Money to Mr D 
regarding seeking additional information nor that his claim had been declined.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Virgin Money to reimburse Mr D the cost of the 
worktops and also to pay him the costs as set out in the quotes regarding removal and fitting 
a new one. She also said that it would be fair for Virgin Money to pay Mr D £50 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by its handling of his section 
75 claim. 
Mr D agreed with the view of our investigator. Virgin Money requested copy of the sales 
invoice so that it could be verified as to what had been ordered by Mr D from the retailer as 
well as the quotes for the required work to replace the faulty worktops. It asked that quotes 
should be on headed company note paper.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Virgin Money has acted fairly and reasonably in its 
response to Mr Ds claim under section 75. 
Mr D says that the worktops developed marks and chips in a short space of time and that 
this wasnt due to wear and tear but an inherent fault. He had raised the issue with the 
retailer who had arranged an inspection. And Ive seen from the following emails between Mr 
D and the retailer that it had accepted liability for the defective worktops and was seeking 
invoices as to the costs or replacing them. The retailer then stopped communicating with Mr 
D, this may have been because Mr D wasnt able to provide the information it had requested 
from him in respect of the UTR numbers, but Ive seen that Mr D had provided an 
explanation as to why. 
Due to the lack of response from the retailer, Mr D made a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 to Virgin Money. Section 75 may apply when the goods or 
services purchased via a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The 
general effect of the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit 
agreement, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is Virgin Money.
The worktops have been independently inspected and the retailer does appear to have 
taken the responsibility of covering the cost to replace them. Even though I havent seen the 
inspection report, I think that its more likely than not the worktops were faulty and had been 
from the point of supply. I think its reasonable to say there had been a breach of contract. And I agree with our investigator that from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Ds section 75 
claim was straightforward.
Ive seen that Virgin Money says it declined Mr Ds claim because he hadnt supplied 
information it had requested. However, I havent seen copies of any correspondence sent to 
Mr D asking for additional evidence nor of Virgins Moneys decision to decline the claim 
because he hadnt responded. Mr D says there was no contact other than the two letters he 
received from Virgin Money in February and August 2021. I think in the circumstances that it 
would be fair to conclude that its more likely than not that Virgin Money hadnt requested 
any extra information from Mr D. Mr D has now provided a copy of the sales invoice and Ive 
seen the quotes he had obtained from the plumber and kitchen fitter. These quotes are on 
headed company paper.
So, as Ive seen sufficient evidence that there has been a breach of contract, I dont think 
Virgin Money has handled Mr Ds section 75 claim fairly. I think it would be fair for it to now 
settle the claim by reimbursing Mr D the cost of the original worktops and pay Mr D the 
consequential loss of having to rectify the faults, that is pay for the costs that will be incurred 
removing the worktops and reinstalling new ones.
Ive seen that the plumber has raised there is a possibility the sink will be damaged when it 
is removed from the original worktop. But as this is only a possibility, I dont think its 
reasonable to require Virgin Money to pay for a new sink. Mr D also raised there may be an 
issue with the tiles but I havent seen any evidence that the tiles will be damaged during the 
removal/refitting so again I dont think it would be fair to ask Virgin Money to pay for new 
tiles.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr D has suffered from distress and inconvenience 
from Virgin Moneys handling of his section 75 claim, I dont know what had caused the 
delay in its considering it as it wasnt unduly complex. I think £50 compensation is fair to 
recognise the impact this has had on Mr D.
Ive seen that Mr D was concerned at the age of the quotes hed obtained as this may have 
now affected the true costs of the work. However, Ive also seen he has decided to stick with 
them and hasnt arranged for new quotes to be provided.
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Virgin Money to do the following:
Refund Mr D the amount paid for the worktop which was £165 together with interest 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D a total of £585 for the consequential losses that will be incurred removing 
the faulty worktops and refit new ones as set out in the obtained quotes.
Pay Mr D £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by excessive 
delays.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im asking Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money to do the following:
Refund Mr D the amount paid for the worktop which was £165 together with interest 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.Pay Mr D a total of £585 for the consequential losses that will be incurred removing 
the faulty worktops and refit new ones as set out in the obtained quotes.
Pay Mr D £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by excessive 
delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman