DRN-3308925
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
handled his motor insurance claim.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr D was unfortunately involved in a motor accident and made a 
claim on his policy. Initially Admiral said his car should be declared a total loss. However, 
after the correct car model was confirmed and a fair valuation obtained, they agreed to 
repair it.
After Mr D received his car back in the summer, he raised a complaint and asked Admiral 
to compensate him for the way his claim had been handled. He raised several concerns 
including the way his car had been valued, the amount of time the repairs took, the way 
the replacement parts were sourced and the condition of the car once it was returned.
Unfortunately, despite waiting several months for his car to be fixed, there were still 
some repairs outstanding.
Admirals final response addressed each of Mr Ds concerns and said they'd let him down 
in some instances. To acknowledge the distress and inconvenience they'd caused him, 
they therefore offered him £250 compensation. They also agreed to refund Mr D the cost 
of the additional repairs, he completed independently after his car had been returned.
Unfortunately, there was a calculation error in Admirals final response as the letter 
included an incorrect figure in relation to the refund amount. So, Admiral paid Mr D £50 
additional compensation.
Our investigator then considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She said Admiral 
had responded fairly to most of Mr Ds complaint points. However, she thought it would be 
reasonable for them to pay Mr D £100 additional compensation, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced when his car was valued. She reached this conclusion as 
she said it took Admiral too long to reach a fair valuation and this process was more 
difficult than it reasonably should have been for Mr D.
Mr D accepted our investigators opinion, but Admiral didnt. In summary, they said 
theyd already given Mr D a fair resolution to his complaint and while the valuation 
wasnt straight forward, they did the right thing by requesting an independent 
assessment and then a bespoke valuation from one of the trade guides.
On 21 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision. Since then, neither side have provided 
me with any further comments or submissions. That means, I have no reason to depart from 
the findings Ive already reached in this case. 
So, what follows is my provisional findings now made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, so not everything 
that happened is detailed, Id like to reassure Mr D and Admiral that Ive read and 
considered everything in its entirety. Ive also focussed this decision on the remaining 
outstanding issue, namely whether Mr D should receive additional compensation for the 
way his car was valued.
I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably by referring to the trade guides in the first 
instance or by obtaining an independent assessment. But I do think the overall valuation 
process could have been easier and faster for Mr D. I say this as Mr D highlighted the fact 
the trade guides use an incorrect model for his car straight away and said the 
manufacturer could verify the correct details. The independent assessor was also warned 
of this discrepancy and was asked to verify the correct model. However, the assessor 
didnt successfully do this until after he talked to Mr D directly and two reports were 
issued.
I also note that once the correct model was established, Admiral told Mr D theyd value 
his car based on the purchase price. Mr D didnt think this was fair, as he said he couldnt 
replace his car for the same price as he purchased it. He was also concerned this 
valuation would result in his car being written off. It was only after Mr D provided his own 
extensive research, to support a higher valuation, that Admiral requested a bespoke 
valuation from one of the trade guides. This approach caused delays and went against 
the policy terms. As the valuation should reasonably have been based on the value of   
Mr Ds car at the time of the accident and not the date of purchase. It also meant Mr D 
spent considerable time carrying out research which could have been avoided, if a 
bespoke valuation was requested sooner.
That said, I dont think Admiral should reasonably pay Mr D additional compensation for 
this issue. As I can see from the file, that Mr D first complained to Admiral about the way 
his car was valued in March 2020 and they paid him £100 compensation at that time. Im 
also satisfied £100 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this issue caused him, based on the timescales involved and the overall 
impact.
In total, Admiral have paid Mr D £400 compensation to reflect the avoidable distress 
and inconvenience he experienced due to the way they handled his claim. I do 
appreciate Admiral let Mr D down in some instances, but it isnt my role to punish them, 
instead I consider the overall impact of their errors. And having done so here, Im 
satisfied Admiral have already provided Mr D with a reasonable resolution to his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman