DRN-2495100
The complaint
Mr O, represented by a third party, complains that the loans provided to him by PDL Finance 
Limited (trading as Mr Lender) were irresponsibly lent.
What happened
Mr O entered into four loans with Mr Lender between February and September 2019.
Loan No:Date Taken Date RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan Amount
1 01/02/2019 30/04/2019 3 £200.00
2 01/05/2019 31/05/2019 3 £250.00
3 06/06/2019 23/09/2019 3 £200.00
4 23/09/2019 Outstanding 12 £750.00
Mr O says that the loans were easy to get, and he was borrowing from one lender to repay 
another. He says he soon became dependent on the loans and was using all his income to 
make the repayments meaning he then had to borrow more.
Mr Lender didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough to say that loans one to three shouldnt have 
been provided. However, he thought by loan four proportionate checks would have most 
likely shown that Mr O was having problems managing his money. He noted that Mr O had 
outstanding loans with other providers at the time and he thought Mr Lender ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr O wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said Mr O took out the fourth loan as he 
said he had an unexpected cost for his boiler. This was a one-off loan in line with the 
purpose for short term lending. It said the repayment amounts werent a significant portion of 
Mr Os monthly income and that its checks showed the repayments were affordable. 
Mr Lender said that Mr O had repaid all his previous loans either on time or early and he 
hadnt told it that he was experiencing any financial difficulties. It didnt accept that further 
checks were required before loan four was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr O could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Mr O took out four loans with Mr Lender. The first three loans were each repayable over 
three monthly instalments. Before the loans were provided, Mr Lender gathered information 
about Mr Os income and expenses. His monthly income at the time of the first loan was 
noted as £1,515 and this increased to £1,600 for the other loans. His expenses information 
included housing costs, utilities, transport, and other costs. Mr O recorded zero in response 
to the question about payments to other outstanding loans.
Based on the repayment amounts due under each of the first three loans compared to 
Mr Os income I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. These checks 
suggested the loans were affordable for Mr O and as each loan was repaid before the next I 
do not find that Mr Lender did anything wrong by providing these loans.
By loan four, Mr O had borrowed from Mr Lender for over six months and while he was 
repaying his loans before taking out new ones, there was no gap in his borrowing. Mr O took 
out his second loan the day after he repaid his first, the third loan within a week of repaying the second and the fourth loan the day he repaid the third. Loan four was for a much larger 
amount and was repayable over a longer period. While the longer term meant Mr Os 
monthly repayment amounts were kept to under £200, it also meant that he was indebted for 
a longer period.
Having looked at the information Mr Lender gathered before loan four was provided, I agree 
that this suggested the loan repayments were affordable. However, for the reasons set out 
above I think further checks should have been carried out before this loan was provided. The 
information recorded shows that Mr O had no other outstanding loans (including short term 
loans) at the time the loan was provided. But had Mr Lender carried out further checks it 
would have realised that Mr O had several other short term loans outstanding at the time. I 
think this would have raised concerns about how Mr O was managing his money and that 
loan four wasnt sustainably affordable to him. Because of this I do not find that loan four 
should have been provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr O at loan four, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr O may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I understand that loan four is still outstanding. If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it 
should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to 
buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan four and treat any 
repayments made by Mr O as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr O having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. If there is still an outstanding 
balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr O.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to loan 
four.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender in regard to loan four. PDL Finance Limited should take the actions set out above 
in resolution on this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman