Page 1 of 5The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam, or to help her recover the money once shed reported 
the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In November 2021, Miss R came into contact someone a social media dating site who Ill 
refer to as the scammer. She had thought he was genuine because his profile contained 
photographs and interactions, and they shared personal details including their hobbies and 
background. The scammer told her he lived in London for work, and they soon began to 
communicate using WhatsApp. They exchanged personal information and photographs and 
made plans to meet up.
Eventually, the scammer suggested she should invest in cryptocurrency because it would 
make her life easier, and it would be a shared hobby. He explained he used cryptocurrency 
exchange companies to convert his money to cryptocurrency and then used a trading 
platform to carry out trades. He gave Miss R a link to a platform which looked extremely 
professional and featured a customer chat box, tutorials, investment and futures market 
predictions, and about us and news sections. The platform claimed to have been 
established internationally in 2017 and to have obtained the Swiss VQF licence.
The scammer told Miss R he would place trades on her behalf so she wouldnt be burdened 
by the work. She opened an account on the trading platform and was told to open an 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange company, which would allow her to convert her 
money to cryptocurrency.
She paid the initial deposit from another bank account and made £50 profit within a few 
days. She then asked to withdraw £153.57, and the scammer explained she needed to go 
through the withdrawal process via the trading platform. When she received the money, she 
felt confident she could access her profits at any point and between 12 December 2021 and 
17 January 2022, Miss R made nine payments to a cryptocurrency exchange company 
totalling £19,126.60.
On 12 December 2021, Miss R tried to transfer £2,987.64, but the payment was blocked, so 
the scammer told her to open a Monzo account and make the payment from there. On 7 
January 2022, she made two payments of £4,187.25 and £778.19. The scammer then told 
DRN-4254088Page 2 of 5her shed need in invest more to reach higher profits, so she deposited a further £3,764.11 
and £294.44 into the trading account on 15 January 2022.
When she wanted to withdraw some money, she was told shed need to pay tax, so she 
made further payments of £2,214.97 and £2,800 on 17 January 2022, followed by a final 
payment of £2,100 on 19 January 2022. She realised shed been scammed when she 
continued to receive further demands for money.
Miss R contacted Monzo on 2 February 2022, but it refused to investigate the complaint or 
provide a written response. She said it had breached its duty of care by failing to identify the 
payments as unusual and suspicious and to warn her about the risks. She also said it had 
failed to raise a chargeback request.
Monzo said it had executed the payments in accordance with her payment instructions and 
that it provides education in relation to scams, including designated pages on its website. It 
said she had received a warning before the transfer on 17 January 2022, but she went 
ahead with the payment, and she didnt complete reasonable due diligence or meet the 
scammer or question the fees she was required to pay.
Monzo also said Miss R had gone ahead despite being provided with and having access to 
education relating to scams, and that an online search would have shown reviews indicating 
the trading platform might be part of a scam. Finally, it said it didnt raise a chargeback 
request as Mastercard has restrictions in place on the type of chargebacks that can be 
raised for investment purposes.
Miss R complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. She said Monzo 
should have spotted the red flags and asked probing questions about which company she 
was investing with and whether she had a broker. Her representative said that Miss R had a 
reasonable basis to believe the investment was genuine and that Monzo failed to raise a 
chargeback request when she reported the scam.
They said Monzo didnt do enough when Miss R made the first payment because she was 
only asked for the purpose of the payment and whether shed been coerced, and it didnt 
give an effective scam warning. They said she wasnt asked whether shed done any 
research on Companies House or the FCA website, how she found out about the 
investment, the returns shed been promised, whether shed checked the platform was 
regulated, whether shed checked reviews on Trustpilot, whether there was a third party 
involved and if so whether shed met the person in real life. Finally, they said Miss R wasnt 
given a cover story, so its likely Monzo would have established the payments were 
orchestrated by someone shed met on social media.
My provisional findings
I explained Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not 
to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss R).
Miss Rs own testimony supported that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. It was most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Miss Rs Page 3 of 5payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, I concluded any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that 
Monzos decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency 
exchange companies was fair.
I was satisfied Ms R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Ms K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I carefully considered the circumstances, and I was persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Miss R didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the disputed 
payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Monzo 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss R when she 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting Miss R from financial harm due to fraud.
Miss Rs representative had said there was a call on 12 December 2021, but the account of 
what was said is confused and Miss R later said she might have been mistaken. Monzo said 
there was no call. I considered the available evidence and on balance, in the absence of a 
call recording or a call log, I didnt think there was a call. So, I thought about whether Monzo 
ought to have blocked the payment on 12 December 2022 and I didnt think it needed to. 
This is because it was to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, and I didnt think the amount 
was such that it ought to have triggered an intervention.
However, I thought Monzo ought to have blocked the second payment, which was the first of 
two payments she made on 7 January 2022 for £4,187.25 and £778.19. This is because it 
was a large amount to a payee associated with cryptocurrency and as this was a new 
account with little spending history to compare it with, I though it ought to have intervened to 
ask some questions.
I said Monzo should have contacted Miss R to ask robust questions about the purpose of the 
payment and whether there was a third party involved, and if so, how shed met the third 
party. And as I was satisfied there was no call on 12 December 2022, there was no evidence 
she was told to lie, so I thought it was likely shed have told the truth about the fact shed met 
someone on social media whod told her to invest in cryptocurrency and whod told her he Page 4 of 5needed access to her trading account to place trades on her behalf. I said I would then 
expect Monzo to have identified this was likely a scam and provided advice on how to check 
whether the investment was genuine and to have provided a full scam warning.
I hadnt seen any evidence that Miss R was keen to take risks and she didnt have a history 
of high-risk investing, so I thought it was likely shed have followed any advice she was given 
and, ultimately, chosen not to go ahead with that and subsequent payments. Because of 
that, I thought Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do so 
might have prevented further loss and so it should refund the money shed lost from that 
date onwards.
Contributory negligence
I considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, and I 
thought it should. Miss R had explained the scammer seemed genuine and that the 
investment opportunity was professional-looking, and I accepted the scam was 
sophisticated.
But she went ahead on the advice of someone she met on the internet who shed never met, 
and I agreed with our investigator that the settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect 
this.
Developments
Miss R has accepted my provisional findings.
Monzo has responded to say it maintains the payments are out of scope, and that payments 
are considered scam payments at the point they are transferred an account outside of the 
customer's control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo hasnt said anything to persuade me to change my findings. I accept Miss R made 
payments to an account in her own name, but I remain satisfied it should have intervened on 
7 January 2022 and that its failure to do so represented a missed opportunity to prevent her 
loss. So, it should refund the money she lost from that date onwards, with a reduction of 
50% of the settlement for contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay:
£16,138.96 for disputed payments made between 7 January 2022 and 19 January
2022.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should
provide Miss R with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.Page 5 of 5Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman