DRN-2254209
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr B applied for a £1,000 fixed sum loan with Likely Loans to be repaid with 18 
monthly instalments of £78.94. The total repayable including interest and charges was 
£1,420.92. The loan was agreed, but Mr B says that Likely Loans didnt carry out enough 
checks to ensure the loan was affordable for him. Had it done so he says, the loan wouldnt 
have been approved as it was unaffordable for him.
Likely Loans says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual 
process, based on the information Mr B provided and it had no concerns about his ability to 
afford the loan. Mr B disagreed and referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He asked Mr B to provide information 
such as bank statements and a copy of his credit file from the time of the application. Mr B 
said he didnt have access to his bank statements, and he didnt want to see [his] credit 
report as it is so bad. He asked that we investigate the complaint based on the information 
we have. 
Our investigator did so, and while he felt Likely Loans ought to have carried out more checks 
to understand Mr Bs financial circumstances at the time, based on the information he had, 
he couldnt say the decision to lend was unfair. He gave Mr B further opportunities to provide 
the information hed requested before reaching his view but received a similar response. As 
there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Likely Loans responses to Mr B, there is some discussion regarding a change in his 
circumstances due to an injury a year or so after the loan was taken which reduced his 
income. However, that doesnt form part of the complaint Mr B raised with us which refers 
only to Likely Loans decision to lend to him. So here, Ill only address Likely Loans decision 
to lend and not his subsequent change in circumstances.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint.
Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr B 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did Likely Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?   
Likely Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks are for Likely Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably 
would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt about 
Likely Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of 
the loan repayments on Mr B.
Likely Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, 
but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the 
loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).  
Did Likely Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Mr B told Likely Loans that he earned £20,000 per year and lived with his parents. It used 
this information as part of its assessment of his application. Likely Loans went on to check 
his credit file which showed he had a few other credit commitments. While hed missed a 
couple of repayments to a hire purchase agreement of £367 per month, most of his 
commitments which totalled £428 per month were up to date. Likely Loans calculated that he 
had a monthly disposable income of approximately £900. It felt this gave it sufficient 
assurance that Mr B could afford a monthly loan commitment of £79.
I can understand why Likely Loans felt its checks were proportionate given the level of risk to 
it of Mr B not repaying the £1,000 he borrowed. But if it had considered all the information it 
found, I think it would have been reasonable for it to have made further checks, bearing in 
mind its obligation to carry out borrower focussed checks. Ill explain more. 
Given that Mr B was applying for a loan of £1,000 but had (by its calculations) a monthly 
disposable income of roughly £900, Id have expected Likely Loans to make further 
enquires. I would question why someone with £900 monthly disposable income would need 
a loan of this size, spreading the payments over 18 months and costing £420 on top of the 
amount he borrowed. Mr Bs credit file showed he had missed a couple of payments to a hire purchase agreement 
and hed had payday loans, so I think this too ought to have alerted Likely Loans to the fact 
that the disposable income it had calculated may not be accurate. Again, I think it should 
have asked further questions to check the state of Mr Bs finances and ensure hed be able 
to repay this loan sustainably. Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks Likely 
Loans carried out before agreeing to lend to Mr B were fair, proportionate or reasonable.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Likely Loans 
make a fair lending decision?
While I dont think Likely Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate checks here, I have 
to consider what further checks would have shown it. For this reason, as Ive already 
mentioned, our investigator asked Mr B to provide us with evidence such as bank 
statements and a copy of his credit file from the time of the application. This would enable us 
to look further into his financial position at the time of the application and reach a view on 
what Likely Loans would have seen had they conducted the further checks I think were 
necessary. Unfortunately, for his own reasons, Mr B has refused to obtain this information. 
Although Mr B cant show us his financial position at the time, he hasnt told us his income 
was different to the amount he declared as part of his application. Ive not seen that the 
amount he gave is inconsistent from the wider financial position Likely Loans considered at 
the time, including the amount of credit Mr B had outstanding at that time. And even if I were 
to find that his monthly outgoings were substantially higher, leaving him with a much lower 
disposable income, I think its more likely than not that he still couldve afforded the new 
commitment. I take comfort from the fact it appears Mr B met his first 12 repayments without 
a problem. Im sorry to hear this later changed following an injury and loss of income, which 
meant he faced financial difficulty over the remaining loan term. I cant reasonably say that 
Likely Loans decision to lend to Mr B was unfair. 
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way? 
Ive carefully read and thought about the evidence provided by each party to this complaint. I 
dont think Likely Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman