DRN-2892101
The complaint
 Mr D complains that TFC has given him misleading and inaccurate information regarding 
the outstanding balance of his loan and the addition of contractual interest. 
 
What happened
 Mr D took out a loan of £5,500 with The Funding Corporation (1) Limited trading as The 
Funding Corporation (TFC) in April 2005. Due to being made redundant he was unable to 
make the agreed repayments after October 2007. He sought advice from a debt charity who 
assisted in making repayment offers to Mr Ds debtors including TFC. TFC didnt accept the 
terms offered and pursued court action against Mr D.
TFC says that as Mr D was unable to maintain his monthly repayments, it started legal 
proceedings to secure the debt against his property in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. It obtained a County Court Judgment in April 2008 for £3,085.30 and a Final 
Charging Order over his home as security for the debt in October 2008 which included £205 
for the cost of the application together with any further interest becoming due. An agreement 
was made at court for Mr D to pay £16 a month, which he has done. 
Mr D has received statements from TFC which showed that the debt outstanding as of 
March 2019 was less than £1,000. However, in February 2019 he received a call from TFC 
informing him that he owed over £4,000, which included an additional amount for interest 
accruing since the court order. Following the conversation, Mr D was sent a copy of the 
original court documents with sections highlighted where it stated further interest becoming 
due which TFC say means they were entitled to add further interest to the debt. 
Mr D contacted TFC regarding the misleading statements he had received setting out the 
remainder of the debt owed. He says that to demand an additional £4,000 which has never 
previously been brought to his attention is misleading and unfair. Mr D says that it is wrong 
that the interest was never mentioned in the annual statements and that TFC is giving false 
information if interest has been accrued but not listed on the statements. He says that TFC 
have made it as difficult as possible for him to be able to pay off his debts throughout, 
including by refusing to deal with the debt charity. This has caused him to seek help from his 
GP due to the impact on his mental health of the increased stress caused by TFCs 
approach to the situation. 
TFC says that it is entitled to charge additional contractual interest of 12.9% on the judgment 
as confirmed in the terms and conditions of Mr Ds agreement. However, it has only charged 
8% which it says is more favourable to him. TFC says that the details were clearly stated on 
the court documents which would have been provided to Mr D or his representative. 
TFC initially said that as the judgment was awarded in court it did not believe this service is 
able to amend this. In my jurisdiction decision dated 22 March 2021, I set out why this 
service was able to look into the issues Mr D has complained about relating to the post-
judgment application of contractual interest. Following my provisional decision on this, TFC 
sought further advice and agreed this service was able to look investigate this matter. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 20 May 2021 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint as TFC had not treated Mr D fairly. I also set out what it 
should do to put things right, including by removing interest and charges and paying Mr D 
£250 for the trouble and upset he had been caused. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments and evidence by 19 June 2021.
TFC agreed with the provisional decision but sought clarification on the redress and 
suggested the award for distress and inconvenience was high. Mr D made no further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In my provisional decision I set out the following:
I have looked at the CCJ, which sets out the principal amount plus interest up to the 
date of the judgment and costs. In the notes it also sets out that if the judgment is in 
respect of a debt which attracts contractual interest for late payment, that further 
interest may become due. I have also looked at the Final Charging Order which also 
notes that Mr Ds property will be subject to the charge in the amount under the CCJ 
together with any further interest becoming due and further costs of the application. 
I have also looked at Mr Ds loan agreement and can see that paragraph 8 of this 
includes the term that [contractual] interest will accrue after as well as before 
termination of this Agreement and any judgement. As set out in my previous 
decision, this is not statutory interest forming part of the CCJ but contractual interest.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that TFC is strictly entitled to charge contractual 
interest post-judgment. However, I now need to go on and consider whether it is fair 
and reasonable for TFC to charge Mr D this interest in the specific circumstances of 
this case, including whether TFC is charging interest in line with the relevant 
provisions under the contract and whether it has complied with the requirements of 
section 130A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 74).
Section 130A CCA 74 relates to interest payable on judgment debts and sets out:
(1) If the creditor or owner under a regulated agreement wants to be able to 
recover from the debtor or hirer post-judgment interest in connection with a sum that 
is required to be paid under a judgment given in relation to the agreement (the 
judgment sum), he
(a) after the giving of that judgment, shall give the debtor or hirer a notice under 
this section (the first required notice); and
(b) after the giving of the first required notice, shall give the debtor or hirer further 
notices under this section at intervals of not more than six months.
(2) The debtor or hirer shall have no liability to pay post-judgment interest in 
connection with the judgment sum to the extent that the interest is calculated by 
reference to a period occurring before the day on which he is given the first required 
notice.
This service requested copies of any notices provided to Mr D under section 130A 
CCA 74. In response to this, TFC has provided a copy of letters it sent to Mr D prior to the CCJ. It has provided copies of a default notice sent to Mr D in February 2008 
and a final demand sent to Mr D in March 2008 indicating that, if payment wasnt 
made within the specified timescale, county court proceedings would be issued 
against him. The CCJ was made in April 2008 and the Charging Order in October 
2008. TFC hasnt provided copies of any notices given to Mr D since the CCJ was 
made and in compliance with the requirements of section 130A. So I have not seen 
evidence to show that Mr D has been given a copy of either a first required notice or 
any further notices at intervals of no less than six months in compliance with section 
130A CCA74. Given that I have seen no evidence that Mr D has yet been given a 
first required notice, it is my view that Mr D is currently not liable to pay post-
judgment interest.
Mr D has received statements of his account since the CCJ. However, none of these 
show any post-judgment interest being added to the outstanding balance. I have 
seen an account statement addressed to Mr D in April 2021. This shows that the 
balance on the account was £2,982.10 in November 2008 and that Mr D has paid off 
£16 a month of this balance every month since then. As of the end of March 2021, 
the statement shows the remaining balance to be £598.10. There is no mention on 
this statement of any interest following the CCJ. Neither have TFC provided any 
other statement detailing the breakdown of this interest for either Mr D or this service. 
However, TFC have said that Mr Ds current balance is now £3,133.04 as of March 
2021, including the interest since the CCJ.
Mr D says that the first time he became aware that he was being charged post-
judgment interest was in February 2019. TFC has confirmed that the decision was 
made in January 2019 to charge Mr D interest backdated to the judgment date and 
that it contacted him following this date. It is unclear as to why this decision was 
made at this time.
In relation to why the post-judgment interest does not appear on these account 
statements, TFC says that its system cannot account for court costs, or if applicable, 
interest and that Mr Ds correct balance must be calculated manually. TFC said that 
Mr D was aware of the additional interest as it was detailed in the court documents, 
irrespective of whether it was detailed in his annual statements or not. It says that, 
whilst it appreciates that this was some time ago and he may have forgotten, it has 
already reduced the interest being charged and believes that this is fair and 
reasonable. It said it might look to reduce the interest to 6% if Mr D is able to 
increase his payment to pay the loan off sooner.
I have also seen TFCs internal notes which state (at page 12 of 18) ah rang, I was 
in crt otday and got our final c/o, ah isnt hpy, agreed #16pm cos this all he can 
afford, s/o mand snt fpr 16.00pm from 291108, will revw every 6 mths, agreed no 
further int provide he make his mthly pmts [sic]. This appears to show that a 
representative of TFC agreed with Mr D on 28 October 2008 that no further interest 
would be charged if he continued to make his monthly payments of £16 per month. 
TFC has confirmed that Mr D has continued to make these monthly payments and I 
can also see this from the statement of account dated April 2021. 
Irrespective of TFCs obligations under section 130A CCA 74, I am minded to find 
that the application of post-judgment interest in this case is not fair or reasonable for 
a number of reasons.
TFC has sought to justify why the interest does not appear on any of the statements 
of account sent to Mr D over the course of the last 13 years since the CCJ and say 
that Mr D was aware of the interest as it was in the court documents. I disagree with this. I think it is reasonable for Mr D to have relied on the account statements sent to 
him regularly by TFC in the many years since the CCJ as representing the entirety of 
what was owed. I have seen no evidence to date of any document provided to Mr D 
showing a breakdown and calculation of what is owed in relation to post-judgment 
interest. The court documents from 2008 did not provide Mr D with an ongoing 
statement of how much he owed in total and I dont think it is fair to expect him to 
have to work out whether or how much he would have to pay in interest. I say this 
particularly as, albeit that there is mention of the fact that there may be interest due 
on the court documents, Mr D was specifically told by a representative of TFC on the 
day of the court hearing that no further interest would be charged if he continued to 
make his monthly payments of £16 per month.
Given that TFC has confirmed it only made the decision in January 2019 to backdate 
the interest for the previous ten years, I also find it surprising that it expected Mr D to 
have been aware that he was liable to pay interest during that period, before TFC 
itself had decided backdated interest would be payable. There is no rationale 
provided for making the decision to backdate interest in January 2019. I do not find it 
fair or reasonable for TFC to have gone back on the assurances it gave Mr D at the 
time the court order was made, given that he had complied with the agreement to 
make the payments of £16 a month  without exception  for over ten years at the 
time the decision was made. He has continued to make them to date. 
In applying post-judgment interest, TFC have now put Mr D in a position where, 
despite having paid off the agreed amount of the judgment every month for almost 13 
years, he would now owe more than he did at the time the judgment was made. TFC 
made no mention of the additional interest until he had been making repayments for 
over ten years. For the reasons above, I think TFC has failed in its duty to treat Mr D 
fairly.
I also set out what TFC should do to put things right:
For the reasons above, I dont think TFC has acted fairly in applying post-judgment 
interest in the circumstances of this case. So I dont think its fair that Mr D should 
have to pay this. His liability should remain the amount as set out in the CCJ less the 
payments he has made since then. So the balance as set out in his account 
statements (without any post-judgment interest).
In addition to this, TFCs request for around an additional £3,000 in interest having 
made no mention of this for the previous ten years has caused Mr D and his wife 
significant stress. Mr D says that TFC have made it as difficult as possible for him to 
be able to pay off his debts throughout, including by refusing to deal with the debt 
charity. This latest action in requesting the additional interest has caused him to seek 
help from his GP due to the impact on his mental health of the increased stress 
caused by TFCs approach to the situation. 
Mr D has highlighted that not once has he missed a payment, despite many job 
losses and that he is also currently without a job. He has continued to make his 
agreed payments since he was told about the additional interest. Mr D has said that 
after all these years of paying the bill off, to be hit with this new bill out of the blue is 
soul-destroying. I think this is entirely understandable, particularly bearing in mind 
that Mr D was getting close to paying off the debt after a significant period of time 
only to be told the debt is now higher than it was in the first place some 13 years ago. 
And I can understand why TFCs actions would have been distressing for Mr D. In 
light of that TFC should pay Mr D a further £250 for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.Following this provisional decision, TFC agreed with the findings but sought clarification on 
the redress in terms of whether the account should be reworked from as opposed to to 22 
April 2008. As set out in my provisional decision above, the account should be recalculated 
back to this date, with the effect that Mr Ds liability is limited to the amount of the CCJ made 
on this date, less the payments he has made since. 
TFC has also suggested that the award for distress and inconvenience was high. It 
appreciates that Mr D would have experienced some distress but doesnt feel £250 is 
warranted and wants a further explanation as to why this is warranted. I have set this out in 
some detail in the last two paragraphs of my provisional decision reproduced above. For 
those reasons, I maintain that the payment of £250 is warranted in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Putting things right
 For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require TFC to:
Rework Mr Ds account back to 22 April 2008 (the date of the CCJ), removing all 
additional interest charges and any legal or other fees applied from that point 
onwards and applying any payments made by Mr D since then to the judgment debt;
Ensure that no interest, charges or fees are applied going forward;
Notify Mr D of the new balance of his debt and continue to notify him of his account 
activity and outstanding balance annually (as a minimum);
Pay Mr D a further £250 for the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above I uphold this complaint and 
require The Funding Corporation (1) Limited trading as The Funding Corporation to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman