DRN-2810342
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the amount of premium refunded by AXA Insurance UK Plc for 
her car insurance policy following a change in vehicle.
Mrs B is being represented in this complaint by her husband Mr B, but for ease of reference 
Ill refer to her directly.
What happened
Mrs B held a car insurance policy with AXA. Unfortunately in October 2020 the 
vehicle was stolen, and in November 2020 she added a replacement car to the 
policy.
Mrs B says that the replacement car was a significantly cheaper model and of a 
lower specification. So she was expecting to receive a few hundred pounds in 
returned premium as the policy still had around 5 months to run. But she was 
surprised to receive £26.67. Mrs B says she then added another named driver which 
reduced the refund to £3.97.
Mrs B wasnt happy about the amount refunded and complained to AXA.
AXA said it had recalculated Mrs Bs premium based on a number of different factors 
and said it had been done correctly. It offered a further refund of £52.50 to Mrs B as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs B didnt agree with AXAs response and referred the complaint to our service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found AXA had calculated the new premium fairly and the named 
driver had added additional risk to the policy.
Mrs B doesnt agree. She said she added the named driver after she received the 
new quote as it didnt make much difference to the overall cost. And she thinks the 
price being quoted for a car in a lower insurance band and of lower specification is 
unreasonable.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint hinges on the fact Mrs B was expecting a much larger 
refund of premium than she received once she had added a replacement car to her 
policy. 
 
I find AXAs actions fair and reasonable in allowing Mrs B to add a replacement car in 
the circumstances. But the key issue for me here is that once AXA settled Mrs Bs 
claim, it fulfilled its responsibilities under the original terms of the policy. And as such 
there was no requirement for it to refund any of the original premium paid. 
Therefore the only conclusion I can reasonably draw here is that AXA has acted 
more than fairly in giving Mrs B any form of refund as it didnt need to provide 
anything at all. But in any event, Ive also looked at the way AXA has priced Mrs Bs 
replacement vehicle. Ive then considered whether it has treated Mrs B fairly, and in 
the same way it would have done any other customer in the same circumstances.
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy. 
Insurers then look at these factors and decide what weight to place on them. The 
resulting premium is based on what risk the insurer wants to take. Our service 
therefore generally doesnt interfere by telling insurers which factors to take into 
account, or the weight it places on them, unless it can be shown the insurer has 
acted unfairly.
The specification difference and insurance grouping of the two vehicles is significant, 
so I can see why Mrs B was surprised at receiving a relatively small refund in 
proportion to the overall premium costs. But in order to show AXA has acted unfairly, 
I would need to be persuaded that AXA did something wrong in reviewing the risks 
posed by the new vehicle.
AXA checked its calculations on the premium refund when Mrs B complained and 
has provided us with some underwriting data. AXA has mentioned that the change in 
circumstances resulted in a large number of rating factors changing on the policy. 
I acknowledge Mrs Bs comment that she added the named driver after she received 
the new quote as it didnt make much difference, so Ive checked with AXA to see if 
this was the case. AXA confirmed the additional named driver was just one of a 
number of factors it considered when calculating the overall risk. 
Ive considered the underwriting evidence available to me and Im satisfied AXA has 
treated Mrs B fairly when it priced the mid-term adjustment based on the factors it 
considered. And Im also satisfied this price would have been reflected to other 
customers in the same circumstances. 
AXA has previously offered compensation to Mrs B which is equal to the cancellation 
fee. It said this was because she couldnt cancel the policy mid-term due to the claim. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable offer.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman