DRN-1942980
The complaint
Mr I has complained that his motor insurer Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has made an 
unfair decision to pay a third party claim against his motor insurance policy, and that this has 
unfairly affected his no claims discount (NCD) and the cost of his insurance.
What happened
In April 2018 the named driver on Mr Is insurance was involved in an incident where the 
insured vehicle came into contact with the rear of another drivers vehicle. As there was no 
visible damage at the time of the incident neither Mr I nor the named driver reported the 
incident to Ageas.
A claim was made by the third-party driver that Ageas proceeded to investigate.
As part of the investigation an engineer was appointed to consider the damage to the third-
party vehicle that was being claimed for as part of their claim. The engineer found that the 
damage the third-party was claiming for was consistent with the incident described, a 
nudge, and that the repair costs being quoted were reasonable.
The third-party was also claiming for the cost of a hire car whilst their car was being 
repaired.
Ageas settled the third-party claim for repairs but disputed the claim in relation to the hire.
Mr I feels the claim was exaggerated and shouldnt have been paid. He is also unhappy that 
his NCD has been affected and would like to have this reinstated so that his insurance isnt 
adversely affected.
Our Investigator considered Mr Is complaint and thought that Ageas had acted fairly in 
settling part of the third-party claim. Mr I disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is motor insurance policy, like most other motor insurance policies, requires Mr I to report 
any incidents that occur. This is even when there doesnt appear to be any visible damage.
As the named driver has accepted she nudged the third-party in the rear, it is reasonable 
that the claim is being dealt with by Mr Is insurance, as she would be considered the party 
at fault. 
I can see that Mr I feels the way the claim has been described from the outset as an 
accident when it was just a nudge has affected how the claim has been recorded. But I 
cant see that this has made any difference. A claim is recorded as a fault claim when an 
insurer has had to pay out an amount that it has been unable to recover from another party. 
When the third-party made a claim against Mr Is motor insurance policy an engineer 
considered the damage to the third-party car to be consistent with the incident. 
Mr I has referred to photos taken at the time of the incident to evidence no damage was 
caused, and also pointed to other CCTV that would support his view. I have thought about 
this and looked at all the available images. I can agree that from the images it is difficult to 
say what damage, if any has been caused. 
But damage following an incident isnt always immediately obvious. An engineer has 
inspected the vehicle and found damage consistent with the incident, so I think Ageas has 
acted fairly in agreeing to cover the repair cost. 
At the time that Mr I made his complaint the third-party was also claiming for hire costs 
incurred while their car was being repaired. As Ageas thought these costs were quite high, 
they disputed the costs and were attempting to get them reduced. I think this is fair, an 
insurer should challenge any claim costs it thinks are unreasonable. 
I understand Ageas has since made a further settlement in relation to the hire costs but as 
this happened after Mr I made this complaint I am unable to consider the settlement in this 
decision.
I appreciate Mr Is view that Ageas has falsified information in order to justify their decision to 
pay the third-party claim. But I cannot see any evidence to support this. Mr I has also 
explained that the date on some of the photos is not consistent with the incident date. I have 
looked at this, and Ageas has explained the date on the photos is the date they were taken 
by the engineer that assessed the damage. So, I think this explains why the date is different. 
I think Ageas has acted fairly in settling the third-party claim in relation to the repairs as this 
is supported by an engineers opinion. As the named driver was at fault for the incident Mr Is 
NCD will be affected, and while the claim is being processed the claim will be considered an 
open claim. This again is reasonable until the claim investigation is finalised.
An open claim is usually considered in the same way as a fault claim until a claim is 
closed. As Mr Is named driver is at fault for the incident Mr Is NCD and insurance premiums 
should be impacted in the same way in any event.
Overall, I think Ageas has acted fairly in the way it has dealt with this claim up to the date Mr 
I complained.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman