DRN-3263169
The complaint
Miss W complains U K Insurance Limited- trading as Direct Line (UKI) have declined to 
cover a buildings insurance claim and cancelled her policy.
Miss Ws claim has been brought by a representative, Mr O, who for ease I shall refer to in 
my decision below.
All references UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. This is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
In February 2020 Mr O contacted UKI to initiate a claim for damage caused by a leak 
at Miss Ws tenanted property.
UKI required Mr O to provide a copy of Power of Attorney (POA) for Miss W, before it 
could proceed.
Mr O arranged for a private Plumber to carry out some initial work in March 2020 to 
make the bathroom safe.
Mr O said he sent the POA to UKI in March 2020 but didnt hear back from it. UKI 
told Mr O in June 2020 and on further occasions it hadnt received the POA from 
Mr O.
UKI arranged a video inspection of the property in June 2020. Following this Mr O 
forwarded estimates to UKI provided by Builders for repairs.
UKI noted Mr O had also provided an invoice for initial work completed by the 
Plumber in March 2020  and the Plumbers address wasnt located close the 
address of Miss Ws rental property. UKI contacted the Plumber who was unable to 
recall the work in question.
Mr O contacted UKI for an update in October 2020 but was told the claim had been 
closed as the POA had not been received. UKI has since confirmed the POA was 
initially sent to an incorrect address in March 2020 but was received at some point 
previously around May 2020. However, it hadnt been logged across all its systems.
Mr O complained about the progress and handling of the claim.
UKI wrote to Mr O in December 2020 highlighting some concerns it had, including the 
Plumbers invoice and estimates for repairs being addressed to a company. 
UKI said it was satisfied he had deliberately provided inaccurate information. As a 
result, UKI said the claim would not be paid, and it was cancelling Miss Ws policy.
A further complaint regarding this was raised by Mr O. UKI said it was satisfied with 
its overall handling of the complaint but acknowledged there were times where it 
could have provided a better service  such as in returning Mr Os calls.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with UKIs response, so he brought Miss Ws complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator recommended Miss Ws complaint be upheld. 
He said typically, an insurance policy wouldnt cover the fixing of the leak  so It was likely 
the invoice from the Plumber wouldnt have been claimable under the policy.
He said he wasnt persuaded Mr O had sent the invoice with any intent to exaggerate the 
claim. And didnt think it had any bearing on whether there was a valid escape of water claim 
on the policy.
He also commented he wasnt persuaded the estimate for repairs being sent to an email 
address associated with Mr Os previous company would invalidate the claim. So, he didnt 
think this was enough to say the claim was fraudulent.
To put things right he recommended UKI:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Remove any record of Miss Ws policy being cancelled/voided from its internal
records.
Remove any negative information about Miss Ws policy from external databases.
UKI didnt agree with our investigator. It provided further comments in which it reiterated its 
concerns regarding validating the claim.  
UKI asked for the matter to be put to an ombudsman to consider.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
UKI carried out a video inspection of Miss Ws property in June 2020. System notes 
confirm a leak was identified along with signs of damage to a built-in unit. There are 
also photos that are consistent with the damage detailed in the notes. So Im 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence of damage caused by an escape of water at 
the property.
The main issue here is whether UKI acted fairly in invalidating the claim and 
cancelling the policy.
I can understand UKIs concerns. When it called the Plumber, he wasnt able recall 
the job and confirms he wouldnt have travelled the distance for the work involved.
Mr O has said UKI didnt mention identifying factors in the call such as his or 
Miss Ws name. And as he frequently uses the Plumber for work, they would have 
recognised his name.
Mr O has also added that the work had been subcontracted to another contractor 
closer to Miss Ws property.
Considering all available evidence, Im persuaded by what Mr O has said here. The 
invoice date, and cost supports that it was to rectify initial works to stop the leak and 
make the property safe. 
I can see from the claim file, that Mr O had made UKI aware he was obtaining 
estimates. UKI has raised concerns about the estimates being addressed to a 
dissolved company. 
Mr O has explained that this is his old company and he has retained the email 
address as he still uses it for things such as handling Miss Ws affairs.I can see the estimate has been sent to an email address that appears to be the 
name of a company. But I can also see it clearly sets out its for Miss Ws address, 
and Mr Os name is clearly displayed at the bottom. So, I think Mr Os explanation 
here is reasonable. While I understand why it might have prompted UKI to ask 
questions, I dont think is sufficient to say the claim was fraudulent.
Typically, an insurance policy wont cover the fixing of the leak, and from reviewing 
the policy documents provided by UKI, Ive not seen anything that persuades me it 
would have been. So its unlikely the plumbers costs wouldve been claimable under 
the policy anyway.
Considering everything available, Im not persuaded Mr O sending across the invoice 
was an attempt to exaggerate the claim, And, as our investigator has also pointed 
out, I dont think it has a bearing on whether there was a justified escape of water 
claim on the policy. 
Having considered everything, I dont think UKI have acted fairly in invalidating the 
claim or avoiding the policy.
Service
There were issues with UKI receiving and correctly logging the POA across its 
systems. But while I can see there have been issues with the service provided by 
UKI, Mr O has handled matters without Miss Ws involvement. So, I think she has 
most likely been shielded from any direct detriment. 
While I can understand the frustration Mr O has experienced, he isnt an eligible 
complainant in his own right. So, I wont be awarding compensation for the impact 
caused to him personally.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right UKI should:
Reinstate Miss Ws policy and reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Remove any record of Miss Ws policy being cancelled/voided from its internal
records.
Remove any negative information about Miss Ws claim from external databases.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold Miss Ws complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman