DRN-3150341
The complaint
Mr F complains about the decision by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to turn down his travel insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms exclude claims for anything that was lost or stolen which wasnt reported to 
the police within 24 hours of discovering it, and for which the insured didnt get a written 
police report.
Mr F says the theft of his tablet computer happened on 8 December 2019. However, he 
didnt report the theft to the police until 30 January 2020, which was the date he returned 
home from his trip abroad.
Mr F says he couldnt be certain until 30 January 2020 that a theft had occurred, as he 
wasnt sure if hed packed his tablet. He explains he thought he had, but when he arrived at 
his destination, he couldnt find it. He says it was only when he returned to the UK and 
couldnt find the tablet in his home that he knew it had been stolen. 
Mr F has also explained the circumstances which took place which led him to believe the 
theft had happened on 8 December 2019. He says he was on his way to catch his flight 
when his friends noticed that his backpack was open. Mr F says he was surprised by this as 
he always makes sure his backpack is fully closed. 
Its unfortunate that Mr F didnt check at this time whether anything was missing from his 
backpack. However, it seems to me that when Mr F arrived at his destination and realised 
that his tablet wasnt in his bag, its not unreasonable to have expected him to have linked 
this to his open bag the previous day and notified the police at that time. 
The requirement to notify the police of loss or theft within 24 hours is common in these 
policies, as it shows the insurer that Mr F took reasonable steps to try and recover the tablet. 
However, Mr F waited around seven weeks before reporting the theft to the police. Also, as 
Mapfre has pointed out, Mr F didnt take any action to see if his tablet had been lost on the 
way to his destination, such as contacting the airline. 
Overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Mapfre to rely on the exclusion to turn down 
the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman