DRN-3428912
The complaint
Mr B has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
in relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Bs OPS benefits on an insistent client basis to a personal pension. 
Mr B is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B was in communication about his pension with Portal in 2017. On 4 September 2017 
Portal sent Mr B a letter titled We are ready to complete your pension release review
Within the letter Portal stated:
We have all the information we need from your current pension provider, which is great 
news. And we can confirm that the maximum tax-free amount you could now access from 
your pension is £28,936.
The letter also stated:
The critical yield for this plan is 9.10%
This figure represents the growth your new pension plan would need to achieve each
and every year to match the benefits you could have received if you had stayed with
your current provider. When calculating this figure the assumption is that you use your
new pension plan to buy an annuity when you reach the retirement age set by your
current provider.
The letter explained that more details would be discussed in the paraplanner appointment
On 11 October 2017 Portal conducted a fact find and the information was recorded by one of 
Portals paraplanners.
The information showed that Mr B was 57 years old, self-employed, had dependent children 
and wanted to release tax free cash (TFC) from his pension to either purchase business 
premises closer to home or re-vamp his existing workspace. He also wanted to clear 
outstanding credit card debt. The information gathered covered Mr Bs financial 
commitments which included a credit card balance and overdraft he was paying 
approximately £230 towards monthly towards. It was recorded that Mr B had very little 
disposable income each month.
The paraplanner also completed an investment risk profiling questionnaire. The information 
recorded helped Portal assess Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) which was recorded as 
adventurous. This was the highest risk Mr B could have been assessed at.
On 16 October 2017 Portal sent Mr B a letter titled Important news about taking money 
early from your pension
The letter stated:
Thank you for taking the time to have a chat with us about your pension and why you want 
to take money from it early.
Since our conversation we have completed our initial phase of research and analysis and we
strongly recommend that you do not transfer your (previous provider) pension and 
instead leave it where it is because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be giving up. For 
more details on these guarantees and benefits please read the enclosed Overview of your 
pensions.
What happens if you still want to go ahead and transfer your funds?
This is absolutely your decision. Everyones circumstances are different and if you decide 
you still want to transfer your (previous provider) pension to a new scheme to release tax-
free cash then this is something we can help you with. In this instance we would need to 
treat you as an insistent client throughout your pension review.
The letter went on to say:
What you need to do now
You now have a number of options which are described in full in the enclosed Options form,
including how much tax-free cash you could take in total depending on which option you 
choose.
Please read our Overview of your pension and think carefully about why we are 
recommending you do not transfer your (previous provider) scheme and the benefits 
you will be giving up if you disregard this recommendation.
Please then read the enclosed options form, selecting the one that you think is right 
for you and returning the form to us in the prepaid envelope provided.
If you decide to go ahead with the transfer of your (previous provider) scheme then 
please also complete the insistent client form and return this to us in the same 
envelope.
The enclosed form had options for Mr B to select to either stay in the OPS or move his funds 
to flexi-access drawdown. The form also required Mr B to tick several boxes to confirm his 
understanding of the critical yield and the pension he could receive by moving his funds to 
the drawdown as well as confirming he was going against Portals advice.
Mr B signed the form on 18 October 2017. He chose the option flexi-access drawdown and 
ticked the required boxes. He also wrote that his reasons for taking TFC were that he 
wanted to treat his young family to good times that they could remember, give his new 
business a cash injection and pay off some debt. 
On 26 October 2017 Portal produced a suitability report which outlined Portals findings in 
relation to the information that it had gathered. The report confirmed the information from its 
previous correspondence. It said the critical yield required for a personal pension to meet the 
same benefits as Mr Bs current OPS was 9.1%. Accompanying this report was a letter titled 
your pension recommendation is enclosed
The letter stated the following:
Thank you for all of the information you have provided regarding your pension. Having considered 
your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are delighted to recommend:Transferring your pension to Aegon
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will receive your tax-free lump sum of £28,936.
We will manage your remaining pension fund, with the aim of maximising its performance.
We will review your pension annually, to make sure it is on track to delivering as intended.
The letter also included a pre-typed declaration form. In summary the form stated that Mr 
Bs main priority was to release TFC in order to buy premises closer to home , that the 
option he had taken to move away from his OPS meant that he would be losing benefits, and 
that this option was not recommended by Portal. The suitability report stated:
Our Recommendation
We have already recommended that you do not transfer your (previous provider) pension 
policy and instead leave your pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will 
be giving up if you transfer. However, you have decided to disregard this recommendation 
and are aware that as a result we must now treat you as an insistent client. As an insistent 
client you have asked us to recommend how best to access your pension funds and we 
propose that you transfer your plan to a Aegon Arc plan.
The report summarised Mr Bs circumstances as previously outlined in the fact find 
document and briefly looked at alternative ways he could access cash.
The following options were considered:
Loan: this option was disregarded as Mr B did not want to take on any further lending or pay 
any interest.
Re-mortgage: this option was disregarded as Mr B did not own his own home.
Disposable income: this option was disregarded as the income he had available would not 
meet his objectives
Assets: this option was disregarded as Mr B did not want to use his existing assets.
The report went on to summarise the risks of Mr B transferring his pension before arriving at 
its conclusion. In the conclusion section it stated:
We have already recommended that you do not transfer your (previous provider) pension 
policy and instead leave your pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will 
be giving up if you transfer. However, you have decided to disregard this recommendation 
and are aware that as a result we must now treat you as an insistent client. You have 
confirmed to us that you wish to proceed as an insistent client and as such asked us to 
recommend how best to access your pension funds. We propose that you transfer your 
current pension arrangements to Aegon Retirement Choices platform, as a flexi-access 
income drawdown pension. This will enable you to release the £28,936 you want to help you 
achieve your stated objectives.
Portal then recommended funds for Mr Bs pension to be invested into based on his 
adventurous ATR. Mr B signed the pre-printed declaration and returned it to Portal on 28 
October 2017and the transfer went ahead based on this recommendation. Our Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She didnt 
think Mr B had sufficient knowledge and understanding of the risks involved with the 
transaction  because Portal had not made this clear enough. So, she didnt think Mr B 
shouldve been classed as an insistent client. And she didnt think the recommendation 
made was suitable.
Portal didnt agree it said it had followed fair and correct processes that explained Mr B 
would be acting against its advice if he continued with the transfer of his pension. It also said 
that in addition to the paperwork that was completed at the time it had spoken to Mr B on the 
phone on 19 October 2017 and he again confirmed he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
against its advice.
As Portal didnt agree with our Investigators view this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Suitability of advice
Portal has said that the advice it gave was suitable because it did not recommend to Mr B 
that he should transfer his pension. Instead he insisted on doing so. After he insisted, it 
recommended a provider and investments which it felt were right for him. 
But I disagree. I dont think Portals actions were appropriate or fair.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr B. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr B to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives, and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
In addition, there were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factorsthat do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the
client's best interests.
So, Portal needed to begin by assuming a transfer from Mr Bs OPS was not suitable,
then consider Mr Bs specific circumstances and objectives. It needed to assess the options
available and look at what was in his best interests. It needed to provide a comparison of
what the situation would be if he opted to transfer his pension from his OPS and what it
would be if he didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that
Mr B understood all of this information so that he could make an informed decision. All while
ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
A letter was sent to Mr B on 4 September 2017 titled we are ready to complete your pension release 
review. The first paragraph of the letter states: We have all the information we need from your 
current pension provider, which is great news. And we can confirm that the maximum tax-free 
amount you could now access from your pension is £28,936.
So, the first thing mentioned was releasing money from the pension. Not a review or more 
general service, but instead making a specific change to the current position of Mr Bs 
pension. This was before a detailed fact find had been completed to understand Mr Bs 
circumstances or needs. 
I accept there had been some contact prior to this letter  with an initial enquiry having been 
registered prior to Portal gathering information about Mr Bs existing pension scheme and Mr 
B also signed a form that allowed Portal to gather information about his existing OPS. But
I think the letter indicates, before a meaningful fact find had been completed, the discussion 
being skewed towards a particular outcome.
Portal carried out a fact find on 11 October 2017. But there doesnt appear to have been any 
information gathered about Mr Bs income needs in retirement. The question How much in 
todays money will you need when you retire? is answered unsure. I think it would be 
difficult, without an attempt having been made to understand this, for any recommendation to 
be entirely suitable for Mr Bs circumstances, bearing in mind the primary aim of a pension is 
to provide income in retirement. There is also nothing in the fact find to indicate that Mr B 
had any other retirement provisions in place  so its likely he had limited capacity for loss 
with his OPS. But this isnt reflected in the risk assessment.
The requirement noted for Mr B needing TFC was for him to buy a business property closer 
to home or if this wasnt possible, re-vamp his existing working space. He also wanted to 
clear some credit card and overdraft debt. But I think buying a property for the amount of 
TFC that would have been available to Mr B was optimistic at best and no further detail 
about this plan was provided, there was also no details given about the cost of revamping Mr 
Bs existing working space which I assume would be significantly lower than the cost of buying a property. Which I think suggests Mr B hadnt fully planned what he was going to be 
using the TFC for.
In addition to this Mr B confirmed he was managing his existing debt and was not in arrears. 
So, while it would have been nice to clear his debts, from the information provided I dont 
think Mr B had a need to.
In my opinion, the discussions around TFC seemed to be about how Mr B would spend the 
money if it was available, rather than what he needed and whether giving up guaranteed 
lifelong benefits, and opting out his OPS was in his best interests. Mr B already had an 
existing working space for his business and was managing his debt. 
Im sure releasing TFC would have been something Mr B would like to have been able to do, 
but I dont think this shows Mr B had an urgent need to access TFC. And again, this followed 
the earlier correspondence that had already been skewed toward the outcome of taking 
TFC.
Portal recorded Mr Bs attitude to risk as adventurous based on the information recorded in 
the fact find, which is the highest risk that could be recorded, but I dont think some of 
questions and answers given support this.
Question 1 stated:
Think about the level of return you might want over 5 years and the extent to which you 
would be prepared to see different average returns. Which statement best fits your attitude.
Mr B ticked the statement:
I would like to aim for very high returns of 9% per annum, even though the average return 
over 5 years might differ significantly, and might even be negligible: stock market investing is 
long-term
I dont think this response supports that Mr B was willing to take the highest level of risk with 
his investments. He was only 57 years old at the time and not looking to retire until he was 
66 years old. The choice of answers did not highlight the likelihood of Mr Bs investment not 
achieving such ambitious returns and instead focused on the next five years which would not 
have been a concern to Mr B.
Question 2 stated:
Think about your attitude to risk of investment losses in a poor year and gains in good 
years. Which statement best fits your attitude?
Mr B ticked the statement:
I am really not concerned with short-term swings in value. These could be 15-20% in a poor 
year (and possibly more). What matters to me are the returns I can earn longer-term (not 
concerned with losses short term  more concerned with long term)
Again, I dont think this response supports that Mr B was willing to take the highest level of 
risk with his pension. He had some time until he was thinking of retiring at 66 years of age so 
I would expect him to be most concerned with his return at the time he was planning to 
retire. The option he ticked suggests the investment is likely to grow over the longer term 
that applied to Mr Bs circumstances.The last two of the six questions were based on Mr Bs investment experience. It is clear 
from the answers he gave that he had little to no investment experience whatsoever.
Overall I dont think that the questions asked with the options available for Mr B to choose 
from provided an understanding of Mr Bs true ATR, and I am unable to see how Portal 
came to the conclusion that Mr Bs attitude to risk was the least cautious of anyone looking 
at options to transfer their pension. Even if I assumed Mr B had a higher attitude to risk, he 
didnt have the required capacity for loss to take such risks with his pension. The OPS 
pension was Mr Bs only provision for retirement, and in addition to this if Mr B was to invest 
in higher risk investments for the first few years after transferring his pension, he was still 
very unlikely to achieve the critical yield required to match the benefits of the OPS.
I dont think the focus of the initial correspondence and the fact find was what was in Mr Bs 
best interests. It seems to have been largely around how much TFC could potentially be 
taken and what this might be used for  not whether that was appropriate. And I think that 
could very well have misled Mr B into thinking that releasing TFC was what Portal thought 
was best. 
On 16 October 2017, Portal followed up from the fact find with the letter to Mr B titled 
Important news about taking money early from your pension. The letter briefly explained 
that Portal did not recommend that Mr B should transfer his pension as he would be losing 
guaranteed benefits in the first paragraph, to immediately offering him the option to release 
TFC in the second and transfer his pension, albeit as an insistent client.
The document included an insistent client form with boxes for Mr B to tick to signify he 
understood the critical yield figures and that if he went ahead with the transfer he would be 
giving up a guaranteed reduced pension of £3,686 after taking TFC at age 65, and that he 
might expect to receive £4,050 per annum at age 65 after taking immediate TFC.
Mr B was also required to tick a box confirming that transferring his current scheme was 
against the advice of Portal, and complete a small section explaining why he wanted to 
access TFC early.
Mr B wrote in summary that he wanted access to TFC to treat his young children, pay off 
some debt, that his business could do with an injection of cash, and that he wanted to be 
able to use his money while he was alive rather that it be spent in his memory at a later date.
The letter and attached form gave little consideration to other ways Mr B could potentially 
raise the funds to meet his objectives, if indeed he did have a genuine need to do so, other 
than directing him to third party organisations like citizens advice for help with debt 
management. For example, Ive not seen anything to suggest any information was gathered 
about whether Mr B couldve potentially taken benefits from his OPS scheme early  given 
he was already over the age of 55 at the time of the advice. Portal may argue that Mr B 
would have declined this option but based on what Ive seen it doesnt appear to have even 
been considered, discussed, or outlined.
I think Portals conclusion that the critical yield made the transfer unsuitable was correct. But 
given the lack of any significant comparison or information for Mr B to consider, I dont think 
Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr B, such that it left him in a position to make an 
informed decision about the transfer or about being an insistent client.
Immediately after saying that transferring would be against its recommendation, Portal 
promoted the option of still releasing money from Mr Bs pension  the focus being that this 
was something it could help with provided he signed an enclosed form to proceed on an 
insistent client basis. It also encouraged this form to be returned. I dont think it was reasonable to ask Mr B to complete and return this form potentially 
accepting that he would to be treated as an insistent client and having made the decision to 
transfer out of his OPS before a suitability report and advice based on the report was even 
produced. 
At the point Mr B was required to complete and return the form it appears to be a pre-drawn 
conclusion that Mr B would be going ahead with the transfer. 
A suitability report was issued on 26 October 2017 just seven days after Portal received Mr 
Bs signed form agreeing to be treated as an insistent client. This is quite a fast turnaround 
time for the insistent client form to be returned and then a full further assessment of Mr Bs 
circumstances to be carried out to determine a suitable investment strategy  which is what 
Portal recommended.
In response to our Investigators view of this complaint Portal told us it spoke to Mr B on 19 
October 2017 and he confirmed he wanted to continue against its advice. I have listened to 
the call recording but again I feel it concentrated mostly on releasing TFC. While some of the 
things Mr B was giving up were explained, no real comparison was given between what he 
had with his OPS and what the new pension would be providing. The call again also took 
place before the suitability report was sent to Mr B asking him to confirm his decision to 
transfer his pension before seeing a detailed report about whether transferring his pension 
was a suitable option for him.
The suitability report repeated that the transfer was against Portals recommendations. And it 
included some further risk warnings that, amongst other things, releasing funds early could 
reduce Mr Bs income in retirement, taking TFC at this stage would mean no further TFC 
could be taken later, and by transferring away from the OPS Mr B would most likely be 
unable to reverse this decision. 
But the report also went on to recommend a specific provider and specific funds that Mr Bs 
pension should be invested in. The covering letter sent with the suitability report also stated: 
your pension recommendation is enclosed, and that following the recommendation would 
mean Mr B would have access to TFC of £28,936. The letter further stated, If you agree 
with our recommendation then please sign the forms enclosed and return them to us in the 
pre-paid envelope provided. I think these statements suggest Portal thought it was a good 
idea that Mr B should transfer his existing pension.
The covering letter included a further declaration for Mr B to complete which repeated the
acknowledgements in the insistent client declaration that he had previously returned. But this 
document had a pre-typed statement requiring Mr B to simply sign to show he was fully 
aware of all the risk he would be taking transferring his pension. This statement was not in 
Mr Bs own words and I dont think it demonstrates he was fully aware of all the risks 
involved.
Even with the content of this form in mind I think there was significant enough doubt and 
contradiction in the correspondence Mr B was sent over a relatively short space of time for 
him to believe that Portal was in fact recommending a transfer.
The suitability report did touch on alternative methods that may have been available to 
raising the funds Mr B wanted to meet his objectives, namely taking a loan, using his existing 
disposable income and using his available assets. But these were all disregarded with what 
seems like little consideration. For example, I cannot see that the cost of a loan was 
explored, and I think if Mr B really needed to raise funds more consideration should have 
been given to raising funds using his existing assets rather than risking his pension. A simple one line of information was attached to the alternative options meaning much more weight 
was given to the option of Mr B releasing TFC by transferring his pension.
I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to proceed, and I 
dont think Mr Bs objectives were robustly tested by Portal. They did not seem urgent 
considering Mr B was managing his debt, had assets to the value of £15,000, and already 
had a workspace.
I think it was unlikely Mr B would be able to purchase a property with the TFC he was able to 
release. So, I think its possible he could have met his more realistic objectives of clearing 
his debt and revamping his workspace in other more suitable ways if this was truly 
something Mr B had a need to do. In any event Portal should have made much clearer how 
worse off Mr B was likely to be in retirement if he transferred out of the OPS. I think the 
correspondence in general muddied the waters, which I think on balance likely led Mr B to 
believe Portal felt the transfer was appropriate.
Taking everything into account I dont think the advice given by Portal was suitable.
Insistent client
Portal argues that it was correct to class Mr B as an insistent client. Ive already detailed a
number of flaws with the process that Portal followed. And overall, I have concerns with the 
process used and whether Mr B was in fact an insistent client.
Portal says the information provided in the letter of 16 October 2017 is in line with the 
guidance provided by the FCA. On receiving this letter Mr B decided to go against Portals 
advice and proceeded on the basis that he would be treated as an insistent client.
But the letter and declaration Portal has referred to was sent to Mr B before he received 
Portals full suitability report, and it promoted the opportunity for Mr B to proceed on an 
insistent client basis. The letter included an insistent client form, and while its not in dispute 
that Mr B signed the form the options Mr B was asked to agree to only required him to place 
a tick in a box to confirm his understanding. The section Mr B was asked to write himself 
only asked why he wanted to access funds early against the advice that had been given. I 
dont think enough importance was given to the fact Mr B was going against professional 
advice despite it not being in his best interests. 
In any event, Mr B simply wrote what he would be spending the funds on and that he wanted 
access to the funds while he was alive. While the pension was designed to provide an 
income in Mr Bs retirement which would have made his later life more comfortable.
Although Portal have said the declaration was in Mr Bs own words his response did not 
cover why he wanted to ignore professional advice and proceed with an unsuitable transfer. I 
cant see that Portal asked Mr B to confirm the reasons behind transferring his pension being 
so important. It also didnt question whether his objective of purchasing a property with the 
TFC was realistic.
So, Mr B didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed decision  the 
form did highlight the critical yield figures and that Mr B would be giving up a guaranteed 
pension. It also gave limited information about what he might achieve should he proceed 
with the transfer. But I think it was unreasonable to ask Mr B whether he wanted to be 
treated as an insistent client or not before providing the suitability report.
Only after receiving Mr Bs confirmation that he wished to proceed did Portal send Mr B theformal suitability report. And while the report stated that transferring would be against 
Portals recommendation, this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of the 
OPS to a personal pension in the same report. Which, as Ive said above, I think undermined 
the recommendation not to transfer.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr B making an informed, considered
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was, I feel that would
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr B, allowing him to consider this
on his own, and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr B with a means of proceeding
against the advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it, why the apparent
requirements were truly necessary and why alternatives werent truly more appropriate, 
demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr B to agree that
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go
ahead with the transfer.
Would Mr B have acted differently?
Mr B said he wanted to access TFC to clear a small credit card and overdraft debt as well as 
purchase/re-vamp a workspace and make some memories with his children. But again, I 
believe the discussions were around what he would have liked to use this money for rather 
than him needing to release funds. As mentioned previously, there is no detail given around 
the costings of purchasing a new property, or even revamping Mr Bs existing workplace, 
and he seems to have been managing his debts at the time. With the information available I 
dont think Mr B had a true need for the funds, or that he would always have transferred his 
OPS and taken TFC if Portal had used a more appropriate process. 
Taking this into account, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr B been provided with
more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think
hed have gone ahead. I know Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its
recommendation  which overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used,
including the suitability report ultimately issued after Mr B had been directed to the insistent
client route, lacked sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above.
And, in my view, meant Mr B wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had been
provided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood the
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his OPS and investing as he did, and
hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted 
differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Bs complaint should be
upheld.
On balance, if the transfer hadnt taken place, I think Mr B wouldve retained his OPS 
benefits until drawing them at age 65 and I think that without Portals failings, Mr B wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfer. So, the funds wouldnt have been invested as they were. 
So, I think it is appropriate to hold Portal responsible for any of the losses Mr B has incurred.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal put Mr B, as far as possible, into the position he 
would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. 
My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman