DRN-3298361
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc did not do enough to recover the money he lost to 
an investment scammer. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr K came across 365 Markets after looking into forex trading online. He found 
an advert about them which stated consumers could earn significant returns on their 
investment with a minimum deposit of £250. After visiting 365 Markets website, he received 
a call the same day from one of their representatives who was keen to sign him up to their 
trading platform.
 
Mr K was given an account manager and started with smaller investments which he paid 
using his HSBC credit card (a matter which is being considered separately to this complaint). 
The account manager regularly contacted him to show him how his account was making 
profits and increasing in value. Mr K said the account manager would contact him from time 
to time to sell what he would call big events, telling Mr K he needed to invest large sums of 
money in order to benefit from them. Mr K felt pressured into making payments to 365 
Markets, so that he did not miss out on these big events as the account manager said they 
could change his life. He says the account manager called him often to encourage him to 
take out credit cards and personal loans so that he could find more money to invest.
In August 2018 (after making all of his payments to 365 Markets), Mr K wanted to withdraw 
some money. He said he felt uneasy about having invested so much money and wanted 
some funds to be returned into his account. However, when he tried to withdraw money, 365 
Markets continuously rejected his requests and he became concerned. 
Mr K spoke with his account manager who tried to convince him to keep his money on his 
trading account. Mr K did receive one withdrawal request in September 2018 but grew more 
concerned when he couldnt get anymore back. This prompted him to contact HSBC. 
Mr K disputed eight payments taken by 365 Markets from his HSBC Visa debit card (linked 
to his HSBC current account) on 1 June 2018 through to 31 August 2018 (totalling 
£29,311.29) - less the amounts credited by 365 Markets. Transaction fees totalling £275.31 
were applied to the first three payments.
 
HSBC requested some evidence from Mr K which he duly provided and it processed 
chargeback claims on his behalf. 365 Markets bank defended the claims on the basis that 
Mr K attempted to withdraw monies when he hadnt met the withdrawal conditions linked to 
the bonuses paid to his trading account. 
HSBC concluded it couldnt take Mr Ks chargeback claims any further based on 365 
Markets defence submitted by their bank. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators concluded first of all, that 365 Markets were scammers. He didnt 
think HSBC were unreasonable in declining not to take Mr Ks chargeback claims further 
because he didnt have all the required evidence of the dispute reason code used by 
HSBC. But he did think HSBC could have done more to protect Mr K from the financial harm 
caused by 365 Markets, so he suggested that HSBC return Mr Ks remaining loss (including 
the transaction fees). Our investigator also suggested that HSBC should pay £100 for the 
trouble and upset this matter caused Mr K.
 
HSBC didnt respond, so the case has been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the timeusing sales methods that were arguably 
unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably 
regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal 
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or 
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing 
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that 365 Markets were not carrying out legitimate binary options/forex trades 
but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets 
with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr K. In 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
Binary options/forex dealers were required to be regulated by the FCA at the time of 
Mr Ks transactions  whereas 365 Markets were not. Nor were they regulated in any 
other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating 
illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with 
regulatory requirements. 
On 25 May 2018, an alert about 365 Markets was published by the FCA warning that 
they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. This is a 
potential indicator of dishonest intentions. 
On 20 February 2019 (after Mr Ks payments), Financial Services and Markets 
Authority in Belgium published an alert about 365 Markets on the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal. Warning 
about Binary options and forex products. Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
this complaint:
1. Did HSBC handle Mr Ks chargeback dispute fairly?
2. Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr K and/or 
his account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort of 
intervention?
3. If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
4. And if so, was Mr K partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa (the scheme relevant to Mr Ks debit card 
transactions) whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly 
and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder.
I am mindful that the Visa chargeback rules did cover binary-options (or investment) trading 
from 14 October 2017, i.e. prior to the disputed transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 
October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process.
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required HSBC to present dated 
evidence that Mr K had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation 
from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available 
balances on the same day. Ive seen that Mr K did have this information available. And Ive 
also seen that HSBC wrote to him requesting a lot of information that it didnt need for the 
purposes of his chargeback claim on 17 September 2018. What HSBC needed to obtain was 
a dated screenshot of Mr Ks trading account showing an available balance and proof he 
made a withdrawal request on the same day. But Ive seen that HSBC only asked for a copy 
of Mr Ks trading account  not a dated copy  which he provided. 
Theres a call of 21 September 2018 (after HSBC wrote to Mr K asking for evidence) where 
HSBC ask for a dated copy of Mr Ks trading account. So, I think HSBC must have later 
asked for this evidence and whilst Mr Ks trading account included dates of his withdrawal 
requests, it didnt include the date the screenshot was taken. I think HSBC could have been 
more specific with its request given that Mr K did have this evidence available. 
Ultimately, I agree with our investigator that HSBC didnt have any reasonable prospect of 
success in successfully recovering Mr Ks disputed payments through the chargeback 
dispute resolution process  but not for the reasons it gave Mr K. It was specifically because 
the screenshot of his trading account was not dated.unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr K for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr K using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr K was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, 
under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr K is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Mr Ks account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ks case, there was no warning about 365 Markets at the time of his initial payment, so 
I dont think a payment to 365 Markets, on its own, ought to have automatically triggered 
HSBCs fraud detection systems. But I do think the size of the particular payment, that it was 
going to a new overseas payee ought to have flagged as unusual to HSBC. The initial 
payment was for £10,000 on 1 June 2018 and Ive not seen Mr K make payments of this magnitude within a reasonable timeframe leading up to it from the statements provided by 
HSBC. 
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr K before 
processing the payment to satisfy itself that all was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr K would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him he should they were regulated as they were carrying out regulated activities 
without permission. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr K with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
causation
If HSBC had asked Mr K what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. And that the funds he was paying were from loan 
funds which appeared to have been provided by HSBC. HSBC did not need to know for 
certain whether Mr K was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in 
a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals 
about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options dealers. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr K would have paused and looked more 
closely into 365 Markets before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable 
that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not 365 Markets were regulated in 
the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 365 Markets 
smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before Mr Ks payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. But 
for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr K would 
probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr K was to blame for what 
happened. 
Mr K began with smaller investments (on his credit card account), so he was cautious. He 
was provided a legitimate looking trading account and a dedicated account manager that 
was apparently making him money that would change his life. He was unaware of the 
common deceptive tactics of scammers, as communicated by Visa to its acquirers and 
issuers in 2017. When he couldnt withdraw his funds, he contacted HSBC immediately to 
ask for its help with recovering them. I do not think he could earlier have foreseen the risk 
that the company he was dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing 
was likely to be a simulation. Particularly as he provided evidence early into his relationship 
with 365 Markets where his account manager told him he could withdraw his profits at any 
time. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr K should share blame for what happened.
I dont think any of the transaction fees applied to some of the payments to 365 Markets 
would have been incurred had HSBC stopped the initial payment - as I think it should have - 
so it should also refund these payments. 
 
distress and inconvenience 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the FCA Handbook  that we may 
give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
And that.
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material 
distress or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he 
decides to make. 
Although most of Mr Ks distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts of 
365 Markets, I think HSBC could have done more to protect him from the impact of its 
statutory duty to co-operate with our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider an additional £300 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be 
appropriate. I consider it has caused him further distress and inconvenience in not 
responding to our deadlines. I realise this is an increase in the previous award of 
compensation but given where we are in the complaint journey and that compensation is a 
matter of my discretion, I think its appropriate here. 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and required HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund to Mr K all the payments made to 365 Markets including the transaction fees 
(less any refunds received from 365 Markets). This would mean a total award of 
£25,444.96.
Pay interest to Mr K on the above sums, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the 
respective dates of loss, to the date of settlement. If HSBC is required to deduct tax 
from the interest it should send Mr K a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it 
back from HMRC if appropriate.
Pay an additional £300 compensation to Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman