DRN-2640898
The complaint
Mr E and Miss C complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has never held their
correct overseas address. They never received post about their mortgage, and they say this 
also meant they have ended up with a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against them.
What happened
Mr E and Miss C live overseas. They had bought a property in the UK, and had taken out a
mortgage with Halifax when they were thinking of moving to the UK. But they said Halifax
had never held the correct address for them. It had missed off the first line of their address,
which included the full street address, so none of the mail Halifax sent reached them.
Mr E and Miss C said theyd given Halifax their complete address by letter in December
2012. They said they had contacted Halifax again, on 5 January 2015, to express concerns
that their correspondence was being misdirected. And when they were on holiday in the UK,
they complained again, in person, in June 2017. But they said the address had never been
corrected.
Mr E and Miss C have told us that when they bought their UK property, they werent able to
locate the management company, because it changed repeatedly over a short time. So they
hadnt been paying their management fees. They now know that the management company
had contacted Halifax to try to get in touch with them. Halifax wrote to them, but due to
Halifaxs mistake over their address, that correspondence didnt reach them.
Halifax has been paying the ground rent and management fees on the property, and adding
it to the mortgage.
Miss C said that theyd only discovered that this had happened in May 2019, when they went
into a branch of Halifax while on another holiday here. Mr E and Miss C have now found that
there is a CCJ against them, to recover unpaid property management fees. A sizeable
amount of money has been added to their mortgage, to cover outstanding management fees
and costs.
Mr E and Miss C thought this was Halifaxs fault. They wanted copies of all their wrongly
addressed correspondence. They wanted full details of the money added to their mortgage,
and thought Halifax should pay any penalties incurred. They wanted Halifax to accept that it
had caused the CCJ against them, so that they could seek to have it removed. And they
wanted Halifax to return them to the financial status they had before this all went wrong.
Mr E and Miss C said that they are now up to date with their ground rent and service
charges, because the new management company had contacted their rental agent, and had
reached them easily by doing so.
Halifax showed our service the original mortgage offer letter, which does have a full address
for Mr E and Miss C. That was dated September 2012. Thats not their current address
though, Halifax said they sent it a new address in December 2012.
Halifax has accepted that it made a mistake with this address. It thinks this happened when
Halifax moved from one IT system to another, not long after Mr E and Miss C updated their
address. The first two lines of the address were deleted so Mr E and Miss C did not receive
the correspondence regarding their account.
Halifax has shown us that it has made a number of payments to cover service charges and
ground rent on Mr E and Miss Cs property over a number of years. These in turn have
altered the amount of the mortgage payment, but Halifax said this didnt prompt Mr E and
Miss C to get in touch.
Halifax said it had paid service charges in June 2014, ground rent in August 2014 (which
may have been in response to a CCJ), service charges in December 2014, then service
charges in May 2015, service charges in December 2015, service charges in December
2016, and a further payment in September 2017 (which does appear to have been in
response to a CCJ). Halifax said that over £12,000 had been added to the mortgage.
Halifax said that Mr E and Miss C didnt get in touch with it until January 2015. It said that it
was expecting correspondence from them after this, to confirm their address and also ask for
permission to let out their property. But it never received anything. Halifax now thinks that it
couldve updated their address over the phone at that time, because it had already received
written confirmation of their address from them.
Halifax says that Mr E and Miss C appear to be letting their property, in breach of the
conditions of their mortgage.
Halifax didnt think it was its fault that a CCJ had been registered against Mr E and Miss C. It
said that it had tried to contact them when payment was due, and it hadnt paid until they had
an opportunity to do so. Halifax felt that Mr E and Miss C shouldve given their management
company their address. It did however pay Mr E and Miss C £100 to compensate for the
distress and inconvenience of sending correspondence to the wrong address.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Halifax had
accepted its mistake about the address, so he needed to think about whether it was Halifaxs
fault that Mr E and Miss C had ended up with a CCJ for unpaid management fees.
Our investigator said that it was a condition of the mortgage that Mr E and Miss C would pay
the ground rent and service charges. If they werent paid, Halifax would pay them, and add
the amount to the mortgage.
Our investigator understood Mr E and Miss Cs argument that if Halifax hadnt made a
mistake about their address, then they wouldve been aware of the problem, and the charges
wouldve been paid. But he said they were aware that they owed this money, and they knew
they werent paying it. He didnt think that they ended up with a CCJ because Halifax got
their address wrong. He thought they ended up with a CCJ because they didnt pay the
management fees which were due.
Our investigator thought that £100 was a fair and reasonable sum to pay for the mistake
Halifax had made. He didnt think it was responsible for the wider consequences which
flowed from this.
Mr E and Miss C didnt agree. They said they had never changed address, Halifax didnt
have their correct address from the outset, and theyd checked this as early as 2013,
because theyd never received a mortgage agreement or any other correspondence.
They said they had tried to find their management company, and told us the current one hadfound them easily, through their rental agent. They said they didnt know that the
management company might contact Halifax, or that Halifax could pay the fees for them.
Mr E and Miss C thought that Halifax had let them down badly by not keeping them in touch
with what was happening on their mortgage. They said theyd also asked Halifax for
information on their mortgage, which it had failed to send.
Mr E and Miss C said they would strongly disagree that 100 was adequate compensation
for the additional 12,000 that was added to their mortgage without their knowledge, the
CCJ against them, the fact that their personal information had not been handled securely,
and the upset and stress that all this has caused. They still wanted Halifax to do much more.
Our investigator wrote again, to say that he still didnt feel Halifax was responsible for the
unpaid fees, or the subsequent CCJ. He suggested that Mr E and Miss C should make a
data subject access request to Halifax for information that they wanted about their mortgage,
if they hadnt already done so.
Mr E and Miss C wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case
came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I understand Halifax has paid £100 for the mistakes it made which led to Mr E and 
Miss Cs address being wrongly recorded, and all of their post failing to reach them. I 
dont think thats quite enough to make up for both the original mistake that Halifax 
made, and what appears to be missed opportunities to correct that error. I think that 
Halifax should pay Mr E and Miss C a further £200 in compensation.
I know that Mr E and Miss C want Halifax to do much more than this. They feel that if 
Halifax hadnt made these mistakes, they wouldve been aware that their 
management company was seeking payment. Then, they say, they couldve made 
the payments, and wouldnt have extra borrowing, made up of both fees and 
charges, on their mortgage. And they wouldnt have a CCJ registered against them.
But, like our investigator, I dont think that the problems that Mr E and Miss C have 
had with fees due to their management company are the fault of Halifax. They have 
been clear that they were aware from when they bought the property that ground rent 
and service fees were due, and they knew they werent paying.
The terms of Mr E and Miss Cs mortgage do require them to pay ground rent and 
service charges. And Halifax sets out that if these are unpaid, it will pay them, and 
add an administration charge for doing so. Halifax paid these charges to protect its 
interest in the property, as that property is the security for the loan its provided. Im 
satisfied it was fair for Halifax to do that, and for it to add the sums involved to the 
mortgage.
I understand Mr E and Miss Cs argument that, if Halifax had been sending post to 
the right address, then theyd have found out that they were being pursued for 
payment, and they couldve done something about it. So they wouldnt be in this 
situation. But its equally possible to say that if a management company had asked 
their rental agent where they lived earlier, then its most likely that they wouldnt be in this situation. Or, if they had contacted Halifax to ask why their mortgage payment 
kept changing, then, again, its most likely that they wouldnt be in this situation.
When something like this happens, its usually possible to point to a number of 
smaller things that have contributed to the problem. And if any one of those smaller 
things hadnt happened, things would have been ok. But, like our investigator, I think 
the key thing that has gone wrong here, is that Mr E and Miss C had never paid the 
ground rent and service charges for their UK property. And I dont think thats 
Halifaxs fault.
I think that a total payment of £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to pay for the 
mistake that Halifax made here, and the very small part I think that played in whats 
gone wrong here. I know that Mr E and Miss C will be disappointed, but I dont think 
Halifax has to do more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr E and Miss C didnt reply. Halifax said it had nothing to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr E and Miss C a 
further £200 in compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already paid for this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman