DRN-4207671
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his motor insurance intermediary, I Go 4 Ltd (IG4). Mr R wasnt 
aware of certain fees charged by IG4 and he feels that is because IG4 failed to make 
reasonable adjustments to its sales process for disabled consumers.
What happened
Mr R went on-line to arrange cover for his new car. He used a comparison website and 
chose to make an application for insurance cover with IG4. As he was agreeing to the 
insurance contract he was asked to read IG4s terms and conditions and other documents 
that IG4 said was important for the new policyholder to read. Mr R did not read the 
documents but clicked the box on the application to confirm that he had read, understood 
and agreed the detail shared. He was then able to complete the agreement for insurance 
cover.
The agreement Mr R had with IG4 required a data gathering (black) box to be fitted to his 
car, with a non-refundable fee charged for that of £150. Mr R had a box fitted. Around a 
month after the policy began Mr R had to change his car. He called IG4 to see if he could 
make the change on-line. And he asked about a charge of £120 which hed seen might be 
made for such a change. He was told that was correct  £120 would be charged because a 
new box had to be provided, the one Mr R had couldnt be transferred to another car. 
When IG4s call handler insisted that a new box had to be provided and a fee charged, Mr R 
said he wanted to cancel the policy and hed be taking advice from a solicitor.
Mr R called IG4 again. He asked why the box was not transferrable to another car and why 
he was not told about this before. IG4 told Mr R that this is in the policy documents. Mr R 
said he cant read and IG4 had not provided the policy documents in another format, like a 
video, which he could have watched. He said that IG4 was breaching the Equality Act 2010 
(the Act) as it hadnt made sure that everyone understood its charges, which was breaking 
the law. IG4 said the on-line process can be done by phone instead, and Mr R could have 
called it if hed needed to talk things through. Mr R said he knew there would be a 
cancellation fee if he chose to cancel  and he did want to cancel but he would not be paying 
IG4 anything. 
IG4 said the cost of cancellation would be £189.98  which takes into account the 
cancellation fee of £75, the cost for insurance cover up to the date of cancellation, the 
non-refundable fee of £150 for the box to be fitted, the cost of finance to date and the 
payment Mr R had made. IG4 said instead it could look at what the cost of changing the car 
and staying insured with them might be for Mr R. IG4 said that even though there was a fee 
for a new box, the total cost to change it might be more or less than £120, and more or less 
than the cost to cancel the policy, depending on the cost of cover for the car Mr R was 
changing to. IG4 said that, in either case, a complaint would be set up about Mr Rs thoughts 
about the charges and it would consider whether or not to charge them. Mr R said he felt IG4 
was unethical and he did not want to stay insured by it. 
The policy was cancelled, Mr R was asked to pay the £189.98 charge, the complaint was 
raised and IG4said it was not prepared to waive any fees. Mr R complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, focussing on Mr Rs concerns about the £120 charge and having taken into 
account the Act, felt that IG4 had acted fairly and reasonably. So she did not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
Mr R said the Act says that reasonable adjustments have to be provided  that he should not 
have to go out of his way to access a service. He said the Act also says information provided 
should be available to all, and where the only other option for accessing it was a poorly 
staffed phone service, this wasnt acceptable. It not being practical for IG4 to provide 
information in other formats, he said, wasnt an acceptable excuse. He said the application 
process with IG4 did not ask if support or other methods were needed. He didnt think he 
had been treated equally. 
Mr Rs complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I issued a 
provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
I know Mr R is unhappy about the £150.00 fee hes actually been charged, as well as the 
£120.00 fee he was told would be charged if he changed his car, keeping the insurance 
cover with IG4. Its important that Mr R and IG4 have a chance to consider and respond to 
my thoughts on the complaint as a whole, which consider both those charges, before a final 
decision is made. So Im issuing this provisional decision.
The Act became law in October 2010. I know Mr R has told IG4 hed read it. 
Its designed to prevent discrimination against people with a 'protected characteristic', such 
as a disability. It means that, amongst other things, a business (including a financial 
business) must not, on account of a protected characteristic, put someone at a 
disadvantage. The Act requires businesses to make reasonable adjustments for those who 
are disabled to remove barriers to using their services. The duty to make reasonable 
adjustments is anticipatory but the Act does not require that all possible needs of every 
prospective customer must be anticipated and catered for. But it does apply a continuing 
duty on all service providers to take reasonable steps to remove barriers that may impact 
people with different kinds of disabilities.   
When we receive complaints about discrimination, where relevant, well take the Act into 
account. But its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a 
matter for the courts. Its also not part of our role to make financial service providers change 
the way they do business. And we cant look at or comment on the respondent businesss 
practices as a whole or how they may affect any of its customers/prospective customers. 
Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint in 
question. And to do that well take a number of things into account, not just the relevant law 
such as the Act, but also, for example, what we think was good industry practice at the time. 
So although its for the courts to say whether or not IG4 has breached the Act, well take the 
Act into account, along with any other relevant factors, when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Here Im mindful that, in the Act, the definition of disability requires a condition that has 
substantial and long-term impacts on a person. Although Ive not seen medical evidence to 
support that Mr Rs condition meets the definition of a disability in the Act for the purposes of 
this decision, Ill accept that it does.   
Guidance from the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) makes clear that any 
disadvantage has to be substantial  meaning more than minor or trivial. Also that what is reasonable, in terms of adjustments and steps taken to avoid disadvantage, depends on 
things such as a businesss size and nature, and the nature of the services it provides and 
the public function it carries out. The business also needs to consider how effective the 
adjustment will be, as well as the extent to which the adjustment might be disruptive. 
So, understanding all of that, Ive looked at what happened between Mr R and IG4. To see if 
IG4 treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.
Mr R believes that IG4 didnt treat him fairly because its on-line service did not contain 
videos explaining or talking him through all of its terms and conditions. He felt this put him at 
a significant disadvantage because he was not made aware of IG4s fees, including that the 
fee of £150.00 was non-refundable if he cancelled the policy and that the box was not 
transferable, meaning a further fee of £120.00 would be charged if the car was changed. He 
said that if he had been made aware, 
he wouldnt have taken the cover.
IG4 says that it was an on-line application Mr R used to access its service. It accepts that it 
does not offer its terms and conditions by video. It said Mr R could have called if he had any 
difficulty accessing details. 
I appreciate that Mr R thinks that having to call IG4 was a barrier to him using IG4s on-line 
service. But in all of the circumstances here, I dont think IG4 failed him. IG4 offers the 
service of arranging and administering policies of insurance, and it offers two methods by 
which prospective customers can access its service i.e. apply for cover  they can call it or 
apply on-line. I understand that enquiries can also be made on social media and chat 
functions. And I think its worth noting that, the terms and conditions documents aside, an 
on-line insurance application is a fairly complex process, needing a lot of data and 
information to be read, understood and acknowledged, in places also needing the applicant 
to provide written details and/or copy documents of their own. So whilst IG4 is bound by the 
Act, to anticipate needs of prospective clients, I dont think its unreasonable here that it 
expected Mr R, as a part of the on-line application he had chosen to make and agreed to be 
bound by, to have read all of the details it provided to him as a part of that process. 
Especially in the situation where Mr R had not made IG4 aware of his specific needs.
I note that IG4s application does state that there are fees and charges which will apply and 
directs, or recommends, Mr R to refer to its table of charges to see them all to make sure 
there are no unexpected charges. A hyperlink is in the application allowing Mr R direct 
access to the table. I appreciate that the full policy wording for the cover, another document 
Mr R was asked to read, is quite complex. But I think the table of charges provides simplified 
important information. The application also said Mr R needed to read IG4s terms and 
conditions document. There was also a hyperlink to access this document. There is another 
table showing important charges and fees on page 4 of the document. The application 
needed Mr R to agree that he had read and understood the terms and conditions before the 
application could complete. 
I also note that Mr R knew, when completing the application form, that he was meant to have 
read the documents. He was sent all relevant policy documentation following the completed 
application. 
And he continued happily with the cover and service from IG4 for over a month  
at no time telling it that, either at application stage or since, he had not been able to read the 
policy documents. 
Overall, on this occasion, I dont think IG4 disadvantaged Mr R. I think it treated him fairly 
and reasonably. I am satisfied that IG4 gave fair warning to Mr R that there would be fees 
and charges which he might need to pay and gave him a reasonable chance to find out more about those before agreeing to be bound by them. Im not persuaded IG4 failed Mr R, so 
I dont intend to uphold his complaint.
Mr R said he didnt agree with the findings. He explained some of the difficulties he has with 
accessing detail like that set out by IG4. He said that there was too much, like links for 
example, to be easily missed and he suspected it wasnt compulsory to tick boxes to say 
detail had been read. He said that detail in video format, or an option to be called by a 
specially trained person from IG4, would be better  that hes seen that from other 
companies, including during a recent on-line loan application. He said his situation was 
similar to a business premise not installing wheelchair access because it was felt to be 
inconvenient to do so. Mr R said it was obvious that discrimination had occurred here and if 
this wasnt accepted, he would take the matter to court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr R would like me to make a finding that hes been discriminated against. But as 
I explained before, whether or not a business acted unlawfully is an issue for the courts to 
decide. I have to think about whether, taking everything into account, including the relevant 
legislation, IG4 acted fairly and reasonably. 
I know Mr R thinks that did not happen  that he wasnt able to take in the important terms 
and there should have been other methods available to allow him to understand them. 
I have read what Mr R has said about how and why this was difficult for him. But I can see 
that in the application:
where links were used, they were included in a different colour and usually underlined, to 
highlight them. 
there was a box with a clear, large, capitalised heading  FEES AND CHARGES  
which contained only one sentence, directing the reader to access the link to see details 
of the charges IG4 might make. 
another box, outlined in another colour, set out the things IG4 expected Mr R to agree to, 
with links to important reading included.
it was necessary to tick a box to agree that the important terms had been read and 
understood  the application would not complete without that. 
I know of Mr Rs recent experience with other financial businesses and his comparison with 
access to premises for wheelchair users. But that all still fits in with the Acts need to make 
reasonable adjustments  with what is reasonable, as Ive said, taking into account a lot of 
factors. The Act does not apply a one size fits all approach. So, I know that Mr R has found 
that other financial businesses he has used for other services, have offered, as standard, 
more alternate forms of communicating their terms, but that doesnt mean IG4 has acted 
unfairly and unreasonably because it did not do so. 
I remain of the view that IG4 acted fairly and reasonably. As such my provisional findings are 
now those of this, my final decision. I understand that Mr R will likely remain unhappy with 
my findings. It is open to him, if he wishes to do so, to not accept my decision and progress 
his concerns about IG4 through the courts.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against I Go 4 Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman