DRN-2328615
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of their property 
insurance claim for subsidence.
 
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs A made a claim under their policy after noticing cracks in their property. 
Fairmead accepted the claim and arranged for monitoring to take place, to see if movement 
was continuing.
Initially, Fairmead advised Mr and Mrs A that repairs would start in February 2018 and be 
completed by April 2018. This was then moved back to the end of 2018. After the monitoring 
had completed, Fairmead thought the subsidence had been caused by cyclical clay 
shrinkage, but didnt think any further ground movement was taking place. It recommended 
the crack damage be repaired, and explained it would issue a certificate of structural 
adequacy after this. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Fairmead. Their main concern was that the proposed repairs 
would only address the superficial damage to their property, rather than the underlying 
cause. 
Fairmead maintained its decision in respect of the repairs, though as an alternative, it offered 
to pay Mr and Mrs A a cash settlement. However, it acknowledged there had been some 
customer service failings and delays. It offered Mr and Mrs A £300 compensation for this. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Fairmead had 
shown that it had identified the cause of the clay shrinkage, however, as no further ground 
movement had taken place, he thought Fairmeads proposed repairs were reasonable. He 
agreed Fairmead had caused unnecessary delays, but didnt think Mr and Mrs A had been 
particularly disadvantaged by that, and so he concluded that the £300 compensation offer 
Fairmead had made was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr and Mrs A notified Fairmead of the claim, it arranged for its loss adjuster to carry out 
an inspection. They found evidence of minor movement which had led to the cracks. The 
subsidence claim was accepted and the loss adjuster explained to Mr and Mrs A that 
monitoring should be undertaken to establish if any progressive subsidence movement was 
occurring before carrying out any repairs. It also arranged for a trial pit investigation and 
assessment of the drains to take place.
Monitoring took place between July 2017 and October 2018. The loss adjuster said the 
monitoring showed only slight fluctuations, and that this was very small. It said there was no 
evidence of any progressive downward movement, and so there was no ground movement 
to stop. It concluded that the previous subsidence had been caused by cyclical movement of 
the shrinkable clay element of the subsoils. It recommended the crack damage be repaired. 
Mr and Mrs A are understandably concerned that by just repairing the cracks, the underlying 
issue which caused the subsidence hasnt been addressed. 
There are clay subsoils and clay will usually expand in the winter due to the wet weather, 
and then shrink in the summer when it dries out. Its this cyclical movement that the loss 
adjuster thinks caused the cracks. 
As our investigator has said, properties are built to withstand movement such as this, and so 
usually, theres another reason that causes the clay shrinkage to be exacerbated and leads 
to subsidence, such as nearby vegetation causing the clay to dry out. If that were the case, 
and there were evidence of ongoing subsidence, Id expect an insurer to take necessary 
action to stop the movement, such as removing the nearby vegetation. 
The loss adjuster said theres no significant vegetation to aggravate the volume metric 
changes in the clay, though nonetheless, the monitoring showed cyclical changes. They said 
there does not need to be vegetation on shrinkable clay soils for this to occur. 
Mr and Mrs A obtained the view of their own expert (Mr T). He thought there were several 
potential causes of the subsidence, but said the most likely was the influence of nearby 
trees. Mr T noted there were two large trees located adjacent to the rear of the property, and 
thought further investigations should be undertaken in relation to the influence of those trees. 
He said if his assumption was correct, its likely the settlements and cracking will continue, 
and any crack repairs will potentially re-crack over time.
Mr and Mrs A have asked me to place my decision on hold, until further investigations can 
be carried out, as recommended by Mr T. I dont think that would be appropriate. I say that 
because Fairmead carried out monitoring for over a year, and didnt find that further 
subsidence movement was taking place. If the nearby trees were causing the clay subsoils 
to shrink and expand, Id expect this to be reflected in the monitoring. 
Fairmead has also made the point, which I think is reasonable, that if further movement was 
happening, then the crack damage would have got much worse since the monitoring ended 
in October 2018. Mr and Mrs A have provided photos of the damage, and whilst there may 
be a new crack, the existing cracks appear to have remained the same. This does support 
Fairmeads view that theres no further ground movement.
Mr and Mrs A are of course entitled to arrange their own investigations to see if the nearby 
vegetation is having an impact, and I would imagine this would include a further period of 
monitoring. If this shows that there is further movement, then they should provide this to 
Fairmead for its consideration. 
However, Im satisfied that Fairmead carried out appropriate investigations to establish the 
cause of the subsidence and, based on those investigations, it was reasonable for it to 
conclude there was no ongoing movement to put right. Consequently, I think it was 
appropriate for Fairmead to offer to repair the crack damage. 
Mr and Mrs A have also complained about the lack of contact from Fairmead during their 
claim. I see that they told the loss adjuster they were unhappy about the proposed repairs, and the loss adjuster referred this to Fairmead in December 2018. Although it seems 
Fairmead started looking into Mr and Mrs As concerns, it didnt advise them of this, and so 
Mr and Mrs A didnt receive any contact from Fairmead until June 2019. I think this would 
have caused Mr and Mrs A unnecessary inconvenience, though I think Fairmeads offer to 
pay £300 compensation recognises this. I therefore dont require Fairmead to increase this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman