DRN-1709816
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M have complained about CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NVs 
decision to stop offering its personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a personal accident insurance policy with CIGNA. The policy, which also covered 
Ms M, would pay benefit in the event that either Mr H or Ms M were to suffer an accidental 
bodily injury which resulted in hospitalisation, permanent disability or death. The policy 
renewed in May each year.
In October 2019, CIGNA write to Mr H to explain that it had decided to stop offering this type 
of policy. This meant Mr H and Ms Ms cover would come to an end at the end of the current 
policy term in May 2020.
Mr H complained to CIGNA about its decision. However, CIGNA did not uphold the 
complaint. It explained that its decision to withdraw from the market was a commercial one 
affecting all policyholders; it wasnt specific to Mr H.
Mr H and Ms M were unhappy at CIGNAs response. They referred their complaint to us. 
They felt that they had been assured the policy would continue until they were aged 65. 
They wanted a refund of the premiums they had paid.
Our investigator noted that part of Mr H and Ms Ms complaint appeared to be about the way 
the policy had originally been sold. Because the sale had been carried out by a third party 
and not by CIGNA, she said their complaint about the sale needed to be made against that 
third party. In respect of CIGNAs action in deciding to stop offering the policy, she 
recommended that their complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied that CIGNA had 
acted fairly.
Mr H and Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings. They maintained that they had been 
promised the policy would continue until at least they reached the age of 65.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, the sale of the policy was carried out not by CIGNA but by 
a third party. I cant consider Mr H and Ms Ms complaint about the sale of the policy within 
this decision. I understand that Mr H and Ms M have now lodged a complaint against the 
third party which sold the policy and that this is now being dealt with by us under a separate 
complaint file.
I am able to consider their complaint against CIGNAs decision to stop offering the policy. 
However, I dont consider that CIGNA did anything wrong. I shall explain why. 
The policy is renewable each year. The terms of the policy explain that CIGNA will provide
cover as described for the twelve month period of the policy. There is no promise that the
policy will continue to renew indefinitely. The policy does have a clause which states that if 
an insured person is aged 65 or older, their benefit levels are reduced. However, I would not 
take this to mean that CIGNA had promised to provide Mr H and Ms M with cover until they 
reached this age.
CIGNA made the commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance
market. I am satisfied that it was entitled to do this. It was a decision which affected all its
policyholders. It is not obliged to continue to offer cover to Mr H and Ms M.
CIGNA wrote to Mr H more than six months before the policy was due to end. It explained
that it was doing this so he had sufficient time to find cover from an alternative provider
should he wish. It also offered advice on how to find an alternative provider. I consider this
was reasonable. I see no reason why Mr H and Ms M shouldnt have been able to take out 
cover with an alternative provider.
It is unfortunate for Mr H and Ms M that CIGNA has taken the decision to withdraw from the 
personal accident insurance market given they had inferred that the policy would definitely 
continue until they were aged 65. However, I cant reasonably conclude that CIGNA has 
done anything wrong. I see no grounds for saying that Mr H and Ms M should be awarded a 
refund of any premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman