DRN-3280797
The complaint and what happened
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund money 
Mrs H lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs H came across an advert for Wisebanc online where famous celebrities were 
endorsing its services.  She was persuaded to invest a total of £30,614.42 between 
December 2019 and March 2020. Those investments were made using the available 
balance on her debit card with Halifax. Mrs H also received back £4,825 from her 
investment in January 2019, and so the total loss is £25,789.42.
Mrs H initially thought she been scammed when trying to make a withdrawal in 
January 2019 but was continually asked to make further payments. And Mr and Mrs 
H contacted the bank as they were certain Mrs H was being scammed. Halifax went 
through the evidence needed to raise a chargeback claim and provided advice on 
how to check if a merchant is legitimate. As a result of receiving the above money 
back from Wisebanc, Mrs H told the bank she was comfortable with her investment 
and withdrew the chargeback claim. However, when later payments were made to 
another party, they again became concerned.  
Halifax declined to refund the transactions because it said the chargeback had been 
raised out of time.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They were satisfied the trader wasnt 
legitimate because it wasnt regulated by the FCA when it should have been; and 
there was a warning about the trader published by FCA on 4 October 2018.  They 
also found there were reports in the public domain which added to a bigger picture of 
this being a scam. 
The business didnt initially respond to the view. And then it asked for an extension. But we 
still havent heard anything further. Im satisfied the bank has had sufficient opportunity to put 
across its side of the storey and its now appropriate to move this case to our final stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points above, I 
have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reach by the investigator for the following reasons:
There is no dispute that Mrs H authorised the transactions in question; she made the 
payments using her card and legitimate security credentials. Whilst Mrs H didnt 
intend for her money to go to fraudsters, she is initially presumed liable for the loss. 
Halifax is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud. And as explained by the 
investigator, its considered good industry practice for firms to have updated watch-
lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those watch-lists to be 
updated and communicated internally to staff within one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or IOSCO (International Organisation of Securities Commission). 
Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to payments being 
paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam 
warning.
In this case, there was a warning about Wisebanc published on the FCA website on 
4 October 2018. This was two months before Mrs H made her first payment to the 
trader. Given the timing of the alert and when the payments were made, Halifax 
ought to have automatically blocked them. Halifax had had time to update and 
communicate its watch-list between the publication of the warning and the payment 
being made and it should have properly questioned Mrs H before processing the 
transactions. 
Had Halifax carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs H about the 
payments, Ive no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was 
doing. Whilst I accept Halifax had no duty to protect her from a poor investment 
choice, or give investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps 
a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing 
with a legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised with the FCA. 
And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that was within the 
public domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the high risks associated with 
trading and the potential for fraud and provided Mrs H with a potential scam warning. 
Indeed, this is the type of information it gave when Mr and Mrs H contacted the bank 
in January 2019 to raise the initial chargeback claim. It told them they should check 
with the FCA to ensure any trader is regulated. And it advised that other victims had 
been scammed by such traders and hadnt been able to make withdrawals.    
There isnt any evidence that Halifax intervened. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mrs H 
would have looked further into the opportunity, about the investment type in general, 
whether the trader was regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings 
about trading scams. She might have even come across the FCA warning herself. I 
have considered carefully that Mrs H continued investing despite raising a 
chargeback in January 2019 and Halifax acknowledging theyd likely been the victim 
of a scam. But if it had intervened at the very first payment, as I think it ought to have 
done, Mrs H wouldnt have been as drawn into the scam as she was, and she 
wouldnt by that point have received any funds back which might help legitimise any 
such investment, as happened later. Overall, although finely balanced, Im satisfied  
a warning from Halifax would likely have exposed the scam, and caused Mrs H to not 
trade with this merchant, thereby preventing her losses. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I have also considered whether Mrs H should 
bear some responsibility for the situation in which she finds herself.  And for the 
same reasons as given by the investigator, Im satisfied she should. When calling the 
bank in January 2019, Mr H held a strong view that Mrs H had been scammed. And 
the bank agreed. The bank told them how to protect themselves going forward by 
carrying out due diligence, such as checking traders were regulated by the FCA. Yet 
when they received some money back from Wisebanc, a known method to entice 
customers into investing more, they continued to invest despite those warnings and 
information given by the bank. I therefore agree that its fair to reduce compensation 
accordingly, and I find a 25% reduction to be fair. 
   My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
reimburse £19,342.07 to Mr and Mrs H, which includes the 25% reduction: and 
add 8% simple interest to that sum, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman