DRN-4030955
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with how MBNA Limited handled her request for help when she tried to 
make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs E used her MBNA credit card to buy a used car outright from an online 
car dealership, who Ill refer to as C. The car had covered approximately 13,000 miles and 
was four years old when Mrs E purchased it. The cash price of the car was £9,950. Mrs E 
part-exchanged her previous car as part of the purchase and paid the balance of £4,250 on 
her credit card. The car came with a 90-day warranty, provided by C.
A month or so after buying the car Mrs E needed to replace a couple of tyre valves as they 
were faulty. She took the car to a local garage at this time. 
In September 2021 she noticed that the infotainment system in the car was sometimes 
fading and becoming difficult to see. She spoke to her local garage who advised her that she 
may have adjusted the brightness accidentally. The car wasnt inspected at this time.
In mid-December 2021 the infotainment system failed completely. Mrs E had covered 
approximately 3,000 miles in the car at this time. She got in touch with her local garage 
again, but they were unable to help. They referred her to an auto-electrician and Mrs E was 
given a cost to repair in excess of £1,000. At this point she got in touch with C as she felt the 
fault with the infotainment system shouldnt have happened, and the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality as a result. C told Mrs E that her 90-day warranty had expired, and there 
wasnt anything they could do to help. 
Mrs E reached out to MBNA. She asked them to look into her concerns as she had paid for 
the car using her MBNA credit card. She provided the evidence to MBNA. MBNA didnt 
uphold her Section 75 (s75) claim. They said the reports provided by Mrs E didnt confirm 
that the fault with the infotainment system had been present at the point the car was 
supplied to her. They said there wasnt any details on either report about why the fault 
occurred or when it had occurred. Because of this, MBNA explained to Mrs E that there 
wasnt enough evidence to suggest a breach of contract had occurred, therefore her s75 
claim couldnt be accepted. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there 
was no doubt that there was a fault with the cars infotainment system  all the reports 
confirmed that, and MBNA didnt dispute it. But our investigator felt that none of the evidence 
provided confirmed the fault had been there at the point the car had been bought by Mrs E 
from C. Because of that, she said that MBNA had acted fairly by not taking her s75 claim any 
further. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She said she didnt think a car that had only covered 16,000 miles should 
have a fault of this kind.
As Mrs E didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I have to say that I agree with MBNA that a chargeback couldnt have been raised. 
Although I disagree with their reasons why. The chargeback scheme rules allow Mrs E 120 
days from the latest expected delivery date, in this case June 2021 when she bought the car, 
to raise a chargeback claim. As she didnt raise any concerns with MBNA until January 
2022, it was too late for them to consider a chargeback claim for her. So, even though 
MBNA havent informed Mrs E that a chargeback couldnt be considered, Im satisfied this 
hasnt impacted her right to a refund under the chargeback route. 
Mrs E paid the outstanding balance outright on her MBNA card, after her previous cars part-
exchange value had been deducted. S75 says that in certain circumstances, MBNA are 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied 
those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
purchase agreement with C that the car must be of satisfactory quality. Under the principles 
of s75, MBNA can be held jointly liable for the quality of the car Mrs E bought.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the car price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mrs E paid £9,950 
for the car, and it was four years old. 
Our investigator has explained that shes satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was bought by Mrs E. Or, more so, she hasnt seen any evidence to confirm that the fault 
with the infotainment system was present when Mrs E bought the car. I agree with her in this 
case. Ill explain why.
Let me start by saying I have no doubt that there is a fault with the car. All the reports 
provided confirm the infotainment system isnt working as it should be, if at all, and MBNA 
havent disputed that. And I understand that must be frustrating for Mrs E. But for me to hold 
MBNA liable for the fault and to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
bought by Mrs E, I must be satisfied the evidence confirms that. And in this case Im not 
persuaded it does. 
Mrs E has said she first noticed the fault with the infotainment system in September 2021, 
about three months after she bought the car. She spoke to her local garage about it, but the 
car wasnt looked at on this occasion. The garage just suggested that Mrs E may have 
adjusted the brightness accidentally, and it was left at that. Mrs E didnt bring it to Cs 
attention at this point, nor did she speak to MBNA. It wasnt until three months later that 
Mrs E had the car inspected.
As Mrs E didnt bring the fault to MBNAs (or Cs attention) for over six months from the date 
she bought the car, the CRA says its her responsibility to provide evidence the fault was 
present when she bought it. She has had reports completed on the car. But, whilst the 
reports confirm the fault with the infotainment system, none of them have explained why the 
fault has occurred or when. I accept that it might be expensive for Mrs E to obtain that sort of 
evidence  the auto-electrician has given an estimate in excess of £1,000 to inspect it 
properly  but without any conclusive evidence to show the fault with the infotainment 
system was present when the car was bought by Mrs E from C, I cant say that MBNA acted 
unreasonably by declining her s75 claim. Im not persuaded, based on everything that Ive 
been provided with, that I can conclude a breach of contract has taken place when the car was supplied to Mrs E.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs E and she feels that a car with 
only 16,000 miles covered shouldnt encounter this sort of problem. I know she also feels 
that the fault would have shown itself much sooner had she been using the car more. But, 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic she had been shielding and only using the car for 
essential reasons. Whilst its a possibility the fault may have happened much sooner but for 
the pandemic, my decision can only focus on what has happened in the circumstances of 
the case, not what could have happened. And there are many reasons why the infotainment 
system may have failed. None of the evidence provided confirm those reasons or confirm 
when it failed. It follows that, without being able to evidence the fault was present when 
Mrs E bought the car, I cant ask MBNA to do anything here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman