DRN-2683390
The complaint
Mr Z complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) didnt carry out 
sufficient checks before providing him with a hire purchase agreement to finance a vehicle. 
He feels that the loan was unaffordable and wants charges and interest refunded.
What happened
Mr Z tells us that he acquired the vehicle in May 2018 through a dealer Ill refer to as S. 
And at that time, he states that he informed S that he was imminently to be made redundant. 
And could only afford petrol and insurance costs for the next few months. He feels that 
insufficient checks were carried out to assess affordability.
BMWFS told us that it had carried out credit reference checks. But the process was 
automated and had no manual input. It said that Mr Z had described himself as being 
employed. And had put down a £10,000 deposit. It said it had no record of either it or S 
being informed that Mr Z was to be made redundant. Had it known, it said its improbable 
that it wouldve advanced the loan without further enquires having been made. And without 
assurances that Mr Z could afford to repay it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
BMWFS hadnt carried out reasonable or proportionate checks. But that if it had, he thought 
it was probable it would have still proceeded to make the loan. 
Mr Z wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that the circumstances in which Mr Z acquired the vehicle were also considered in 
a separate complaint dealt with by a colleague. That complaint dealt with matters which 
related to an alleged misrepresentation. Ive referred to the file of that complaint to get some 
additional background information.
Mr Zs complaint here is that the finance agreement was unaffordable. He states that hed 
told S that he was being made redundant. And that he could only afford general running 
costs during the period he was looking for new employment.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Prior to making a lending decision BMWFS was required to make reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr Z could afford to repay the finance in a sustainable 
way. Theres no fixed list of how to assess creditworthiness. But amongst the factors to 
consider would be the type of credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency 
and amount of the repayments and the total cost of credit.
In order to determine if the loan was unaffordable the main issues I need to consider are:
1. Did BMWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Z 
would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision based on those checks.
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr Z would be    
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
2. Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did BMWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
BMWFS has not been able to provide details of the checks that were carried out as the 
process was automated. And its said that there was no manual review.
Mr Z was acquiring a vehicle with a cash price of £37,474. This was being financed by an 
advance payment (deposit) of £14,458.25 consisting of a part exchange vehicle (£5,074.10),
together with cash. The balance was being financed with credit of over £23,000 which was to 
be repaid with interest of £7,485.45 over three years. The terms of the agreement required 
monthly repayments of £264.16 per month. And a final (optional) lump sum payment of over 
£21,000.
I think the sum of £23,000 to be repaid together with interest over three years is a substantial 
commitment for most people. Other than the inference that Mr Zs credit file was probably 
checked, I think its difficult to see on what basis BMWFS concluded that the agreement was 
affordable to Mr Z. Whilst a credit check wouldve provided information about the likely risk 
BMWFS was taking on, it wouldnt have told BMWFS much about Mr Zs income and 
committed expenditure. I think that BMWFS shouldve carried out thorough checks on 
income and expenditure.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr Z would be able to
repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
Its not for this service to say what checks BMWFS should have specifically done. But Ive 
looked at Mr Zs bank statements from two joint accounts as that gives us the best 
approximation of what BMWFS would have likely learnt or seen had they carried out 
proportionate checks.
Had it done so, I think its likely to have concluded that the loan was affordable. Ill explain 
why.Our investigator set out a detailed breakdown of items from the bank statements in his view. 
Ill not repeat this as the parties have seen it. In summary, in the months leading up to May 
2018, Mr Z had a monthly income of around £2,300.  He was also in receipt of bonus 
payments.  From the account into which his salary was paid Mr Z regularly transferred £900 
to the other joint account. And from that account I can see there was other committed 
expenditure paid. This included a mortgage payment of mortgage repayment of £500 per 
month. Together with other committed expenditure this came to around £771 per month. 
This leaves about £1,500 per month to pay for the finance agreement and associated vehicle 
costs such as petrol and insurance. And also food and general household expenditure. 
I thought the account indicated that Mr Z was managing his finances well and was in control. 
In my opinion, its likely that BMWFS wouldve considered the £264.16 monthly repayment 
figure to be affordable and sustainable.
Ive also thought separately about whether the issue of Mr Zs impending redundancy should 
affect my decision. Ive concluded that it doesnt alter my overall view.
Ive not seen anything to show that S recorded being supplied with this information or that it 
was passed to BMWFS. But Ive considered what would likely have happened if the 
information had been known.
BMWFS has explained that it wouldnt wish to put a consumer in financial difficulties. And 
wouldve expected its underwriter to have gone into more detail with both Mr Z and S.
Its said it wouldnt have provided the finance without being assured that Mr Z could afford to 
make the payments.
So its reasonable to think it wouldve gone on to make other checks. It would likely have 
found that the redundancy was due to take effect in the next month or two after the start of 
the agreement. And that Mr Z anticipated being back in work quickly. A view hed expressed 
in an earlier email to another dealer. I think it likely that it wouldve found that Mr Z had 
carefully thought through the proposal and was live to the issue of affordability. And 
presumably had he been asked Mr Z wouldve set out that he proposed to put down a large 
deposit to keep payments as low as possible. And to make repayments from savings. Such 
checks would have seemed proportionate.
And had it looked at the bank statements  as seems likely  BMWFS wouldve seen what 
Ive seen. And identified that Mr Z was in control of his finances. It would no doubt have 
sought assurances that savings were sufficient to cover the payments. And had it been 
satisfied of this it wouldve likely provided the finance.
The account statements Ive seen show Mr Z has kept up payments throughout the 
agreement. And Ive not seen any information that in my opinion shows that Mr Z had to 
miss out on other essential commitments to do so.
Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen any information to show that BMWFS has acted unfairly in any other way, 
even when it became aware of all the facts. 
In summary, I find that BMWFS didnt carry out sufficient checks prior to providing the loan. 
But that had it done so its more likely than not that it wouldve still concluded that the loan 
was affordable. And based on the information it had at the time I find that this wouldve been 
a fair decision.
Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman