The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a loan.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr P bought PPI when he took out a loan. Mr P says he cant remember how the 
sale happened. Barclays says things happened during a meeting in-branch.
The PPI was a single premium policy, so its cost  under £200 - was added to the loan 
where it attracted interest over the 12 month term.
Barclays told us that the loan ended in 2001.
At the time Mr P says he was employed. He says he cant remember what his sick pay was. 
But he says he didnt have any other means such as savings to fall back on. He says he was 
in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said that, given 
how long ago things happened and based on the sample paperwork from Barclays, they 
thought it likely Barclays made it clear PPI was optional and that Mr P agreed to take it out. 
And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or unsuitable for him.
Mr P disagrees. He says the adjudicator hasnt listened to him. Because the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to handling PPI complaints on our website and Ive 
taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr P was hoping for, Ive decided hes not 
lost out as a result of taking out PPI with his loan because:
I think on balance Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI
and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember
this.
DRN-1144593While Barclays no longer has any of the actual paperwork from the time  and this 
isnt surprising given how long ago the sale took place and the loan ended  it has 
given us example paperwork it says wouldve been used when Mr P bought PPI. And 
weve seen these examples before.
Based on how the paperwork was set out - the fact that a customer was asked to tick 
a box on the loan application to take out PPI and the subsequent loan agreement set 
out the cost of PPI separately from the principal loan - I think it wouldve been clear 
that PPI was optional.
So, on the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mr Ps case  hes not really given us much detail about what happened 
- I think Mr P likely chose and agreed to take out PPI and he did so without undue 
pressure.
 
Because this was a branch sale, Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr P. And 
on the basis that Ive not seen anything to doubt this  Mr P says he cant remember 
 I think this was an advised sale. This means Barclays had to check that the PPI 
was right for Mr P  and based on what hes told us of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover  he appears 
to have had limited existing means to fall back on if things went wrong.
 
While the policy didnt provide for a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled before the end 
of the term  for example if the loan was repaid early  Ive not seen anything which 
leads me to believe it was Mr Ps intention to do this at the time. Im also mindful that 
the term of the loan was relatively short. So the policys refund terms didnt make it 
unsuitable. 
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  albeit I think its likely Barclays disclosed the cost based on the 
example paperwork its provided. But as I found above, I think Mr P chose to take it 
out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable 
notwithstanding my finding that I think the cost was disclosed clearly anyway. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
So in light of the above, I find Mr P has not lost out as a result of taking out PPI with his loan. 
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what hes said in his response to the 
adjudicators findings about them not listening to him. But these points dont change my 
decision. I can assure Mr P that I have carefully considered all of the evidence presented to 
me from both sides of the dispute. And having done so  for the reasons Ive set out above - 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman