DRN-3401400
The complaint
Mr D complains, through his representative, that the advice he was given to transfer out of 
his occupational pension scheme (OPS) by Phoenix Life Limited was unsuitable. He also 
doesnt believe that the compensation he subsequently received in 2000 as part of the 
regulators pension review was enough to put him back into the financial position that he
would have been in had he not transferred out.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. I have reproduced the relevant sections of the provisional 
decision here, and they form part of this final decision. 
In brief, in 1991 Mr D was advised to transfer the deferred benefits that he had in a defined
benefits OPS to a personal pension arrangement.
The advice that hed been given subsequently formed part of the regulators industry wide
review of pension advice that had been given by firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June
1994.
Following the review, Mr D received a letter from the firm dated 24 July 2000 explaining that
he should have been advised not to transfer. The letter said Mr D had been disadvantaged
as a result of the transfer. And it said the firm had calculated that hed lost out by £11,769.
The letter said Mr D's former OPS wouldnt accept reinstatement. Therefore it offered to pay
Mr D compensation into a new personal pension plan. Mr D signed to accept the offer on 26
July 2000.
Mr D, through his representative, subsequently complained to Phoenix Life in February
2020. Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said the sale of the policy had been fully
investigated in 2000 as part of the pension review. It said the review had established that
Mr D had lost out as a result of the transfer. But that Mr D had accepted its offer of
compensation in full and final settlement. It didnt think it needed to review the matter again.
Mr D referred his complaint to us, and it was considered by one of our investigators. The
investigator said, in summary, that reinstatement back into the OPS hadnt been possible (at
the time that Mr Ds transfer had been reviewed). So compensation had been paid into a
personal pension plan. He considered the information used by the firm to complete the
calculations was correct, and the fees and charges had been taken into account in the
review.
The investigator said that although the FCA had subsequently issued updated guidance (on
how firms should calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit transfers), it hadnt required
firms to revisit those cases that had already been reviewed in line with the original pension
review guidance.
The investigator thought that Phoenix Life had reviewed Mr Ds case in 2000 in line with the
pension review guidance applicable at the time. And it hadnt acted unreasonably by refusing
to repeat the review using the updated FCA guidance. So the investigator didnt recommend
that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
Mr Ds representative didnt agree. It said Phoenix Life were required to make diligent efforts
to obtain scheme information, before using assumptions. And they were also required to
retain, indefinitely, full details of the calculation carried out, including the assumptions used,
so that it could be independently checked. It said as it had failed to provide this information,
it could only assume it had failed to retain it. It said as Phoenix Life was unable to
demonstrate that it had carried out the review in accordance with the regulatory
requirements, the only fair and reasonable outcome was for Phoenix Life to carry out a
calculation using the FCA's FG17/9 guidance, in order to determine appropriate redress.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has complained about the suitability of the advice that hed been given to transfer his
OPS benefits in 1991. However that advice was reviewed in 2000 as part of the regulators
industry wide review of certain pension business. Although the firm says it didnt actually
give advice on the transfer, it effectively conceded that the transfer was inappropriate and
Mr D had been disadvantaged as a result of it. It offered Mr D compensation, and he
accepted it.
Ive not therefore considered the merits of the advice to transfer itself. What Ive considered
is whether the firm need to revisit the loss calculation that it completed as part of its original
review, and the resulting compensation it offered to Mr D.
In the 1990s the regulator had identified there had been potentially widespread pension mis-
selling. It set up an industry wide review of pensions business as referred to above. The aim
of the review was to provide consumers who had been mis-sold with redress, where due, as
an alternative to them taking court action.
The firm had a regulatory obligation to carry out its review which it did in 2000, and in
accordance with the standards that were set out by the regulator at the time.
The methodology for calculating redress was set out in detail by the regulator, and
necessarily involved making a number of assumptions given that a number of investors
wouldnt retire for a number of years. Some of those assumptions havent always turned out
to be accurate over the next twenty or so years. But I dont think that in itself means they
were unrealistic at the time. They were set independently of the firms, and the subsequent
period saw the financial crisis and historically low interest rates prevailing since 2008. I
havent been persuaded by the evidence or arguments presented that the assumptions were
unreasonable at the time.
Mr Ds representative has said that as it appeared the firm had failed to retain a copy of the
calculations as it was required to do, and so they cant be independently checked, the only
fair and reasonable outcome is for Phoenix Life to carry out a calculation using the FCA's
FG17/9 guidance, in order to determine appropriate redress.
Mr Ds representative is correct in saying that the firm was required to keep a copy of its
pension review records. And it hasnt been able to provide a copy of the calculation. But I
dont think it necessarily follows that such a failure means it needs to recalculate the loss inaccordance with FG17/19.
When the firm wrote to Mr D on 24 July 2000 offering him compensation it set out how it had
calculated the loss of £11,769. It included a section titled Important Information Used in our
Calculations which provided an opportunity for Mr D to challenge some of the important
information that the calculations had been based on if he thought they were incorrect.
There is some information about Mr D on the firms pension review file that would have been
used in the calculations. However I accept that doesnt guarantee that information was input
correctly, or that other information used was accurate.
However in my experience very few of these calculations have been found to contain
material errors. Mr Ds representative clearly cant know the specific calculation had errors 
that is just speculation. I understand it considers the methodology used in the calculations on
a wider basis was flawed, but as I have said above, I dont agree with those arguments.
I also note that Mr Ds pension was a section 32 plan. This guaranteed to provide the
equivalent of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) when Mr D reached aged 65, which
was over £5,000 per annum. So Mr D hasnt lost out on that part of his pension. I understand
the compensation that he received around July 2000 of £11,769 was augmented into a
separate plan, and wasnt used to help provide the GMP. I also understand that Mr D took
the benefits from it in December 2001  the majority as a tax-free cash payment.
So there was only a relatively short period of time between the loss calculation and Mr D
taking the benefits from one part of his plan. And the other part was guaranteed. So I dont
think any subsequent variance from some of the assumptions used in the calculations over
the years since, which Mr Ds representative considers is a cause to look at the methodology
used for the calculations again, will have had a significant impact in Mr Ds particular case.
The pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr D agreed a final settlement in
respect of the transfer advice hed received. There are only limited circumstances where I
would look beyond that agreement  one of which is where the calculation was wrong.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, I am bound to take all the circumstances into
account.
On the one hand, the firm has failed to retain a copy of the loss calculation itself, which it
was obliged to do. But on the other, as I have said above, in my experience, the vast
majority of calculations were carried out correctly; some of the important information that
would have been used in the calculation is correctly recorded on file; and no persuasive
evidence has been provided that might suggest there was an error in the calculation. This
could be, for example, that the loss clearly didnt reflect the benefits that Mr D would have
been otherwise entitled to based on the general assumptions used in calculations at the
time.
Overall therefore, Im not persuaded that a case has been made to require the firm to revisit
the loss and redress that was offered and accepted by Mr D as part of the firms pension
review in 2000.
For the reasons outlined, I said my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
I asked Mr D and Phoenix Life Limited to let me have any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr Ds representative responded to say that although Id said that in my experience the vast 
majority or calculations were carried out correctly, this contrasted sharply with its own 
experience. It said it had examined well over 100 pension review files over a wide spectrum 
of businesses, and it had found only a handful had fully complied with the regulatory 
requirements. It said the majority had one or more failings, for example failures to request 
scheme information before resorting to assumptions, or failure to use adequate assumptions 
for personal pension costs.
It said that it was concerned that Id said there was no persuasive evidence that there was 
an error in the calculation when this was a result of Phoenix Life failing to retain a copy of it. 
And it also said there were very good reasons why businesses failed to retain review files; 
calculations were complex and it was likely there were errors in them. It said there was the 
potential for conflicts of interest due to the fact that the same business that gave the advice 
in the first place was carrying out the review. And it said the burden was on the advice 
business to demonstrate that it had carried out the review in accordance with the regulatory 
requirements, rather than on the investor to demonstrate that it did not.  
Phoenix Life said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, there was some information on the pension review file 
that would have been used in the calculation and which was correctly recorded. And when 
the firm wrote to Mr D with its offer on 24 July 2000, it set out important information that had 
been used in the calculations, so Mr D could have challenged that if he thought it incorrect. 
This was a section 32 plan and guaranteed a proportion of the benefits. And Mr D took 
benefits from it shortly after the loss calculations, so I dont think any subsequent variance 
from the assumptions used would have had a significant impact in Mr Ds particular case.
Ive thought carefully about whether it would be fair and reasonable to require the firm to re-
do the loss calculation as at the date of the original calculation, given that it had failed to 
retain a copy it. However, as I said, in my experience (of almost nineteen years) at this 
service looking at these calculations, and in the experience of this service generally, very 
few of these calculations have been found to contain material errors. I appreciate that my 
experience appears to be in contrast to Mr Ds representatives experience. But I dont think 
it would be proportionate, or fair and reasonable, to require the calculation to be done again 
in this case, even though the firm hasnt (and as it was required to do) retained a copy, 
where the claim that the calculation contained an error is just speculation and where such 
evidence as is available doesnt indicate that a material error was made. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr D agreed a final settlement in respect of the transfer 
advice hed received over 20 years ago. And there are only limited circumstances where I
would look beyond that agreement. Although I understand the representatives point that as 
the calculation isnt available it cant provide evidence of any errors, as I said, if it were 
shown that the loss clearly didnt reflect the benefits that Mr D would have been otherwise 
entitled to based on the general assumptions used in calculations, that might be indicative of 
an error.Mr Ds representative has said there is potential for conflict of interest, and set out a number 
of reasons why a firm might not retain copies of pension review files. And I accept in some 
cases these reasons could act as a motivator for a firm to lose such records. 
However there is potential for conflict of interest in most complaints. The regulator requires 
firms to investigate complaints made against them themselves. But they should do so fairly 
and on an impartial basis. In my experience a number of firms that were part of the pension 
review took what steps they could to manage any potential conflicts of interest. For example 
they employed reviewers who werent involved in the advice process, and employed 
independent actuarial firms to help carry out and check loss calculations. The pension 
review was overseen by the regulator to make sure that firms were carrying out the review 
process correctly, including sample checks on individual cases. Firms are usually able to 
provide copies of their pension review calculations. Ive seen very few cases where I think a 
firm hasnt been acting in good faith when they havent been able to do so. I dont think this 
is an issue here.
I have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Taking all the above 
into account, Ive not been persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to require the firm 
to revisit the loss calculated and redress that was offered and accepted by Mr D as part of 
the firms pension review in 2000.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman