DRN-2360931
The complaint
Mr M complains that TM Advances Limited (TMA) lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
He also complains that the lender failed to treat him fairly when he faced difficulties repaying 
his borrowing.  
What happened
Mr M was given a single loan by TMA. He borrowed £1,500 in April 2016 that he agreed to 
repay in 24 monthly instalments. Shortly afterwards Mr M faced problems repaying the loan 
and agreed a reduced repayment plan with the lender. More recently, following an offer from 
TMA to reduce the outstanding balance, Mr M has repaid his borrowing with the assistance 
of a loan from a relative.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think the checks 
TMA did before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And she thought that better checks 
would have led to TMA declining Mr Ms application for the loan. So she asked TMA to pay 
Mr M some compensation. But our adjudicator didnt think TMA had treated Mr M unfairly in 
the way it had sought repayment of his borrowing.
TMA didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TMA gave this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TMA had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that TMA had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TMA did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
TMA gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it validated what he had said about his 
income using a third-party system.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with TMA. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I would expect that TMA would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think that the checks it did were enough. I think it 
would have been proportionate for TMA to independently check the true state of Mr Ms 
finances before agreeing the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks TMA did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ms complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TMA that Mr M couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements, and what hes 
told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown TMA.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TMA 
should have carried out. I do think TMA needed evidence to corroborate what Mr M said was 
happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking at Mr Ms bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks 
might have shown.
Mr Ms bank statements show clear evidence that he was facing problems managing his 
expenditure. In the month before the loan was agreed I can see that Mr M spent a significant 
amount on what appear to be online gambling transactions. He regularly supported his 
expenditure by taking short term loans. Although I understand that Mr M told TMA that he 
intended to use its loan to consolidate his other borrowing I havent seen anything that 
suggests Mr Ms gambling spending was a one-off or likely to reduce in the future. Ive looked closely at the communications between Mr M and TMA when he was finding it 
difficult to repay his loan. The regulator at the time expected lenders to ensure that 
borrowers in financial difficulties were treated fairly, with forbearance and with due 
consideration. It provided firms with a number of examples of this sort of behaviour including 
the consideration of reducing or waiving future interest charges, allowing the payment of 
arrears to be deferred, or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
But it is my understanding that the regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts 
outstanding for an indefinite period of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to show 
forbearance and due consideration to consumers who are facing financial difficulties is to 
allow a reasonable period of breathing space for consumers, facing an unexpected fall in 
their disposable income, to review their options. So I dont think it was unreasonable for TMA 
to expect Mr M to repay what he owed. I think that by allowing Mr M to reduce his monthly 
repayments for a period of time, and by waiving some of the interest that had been added to 
the loan, TMA treated him fairly. 
In summary, I dont think the checks TMA did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. And 
I think better checks would have identified Mr Ms gambling expenditure. That would have 
led a responsible lender to conclude that he wouldnt be able to afford his repayments in a 
sustainable manner and so decline his loan application. So I dont think TMA should have 
given this loan to Mr M and needs to put things right.  
Putting things right
I dont think TMA should have lent to Mr M in April 2016. So for that loan TMA should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman