DRN-1850877
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr S holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Hes unhappy that Halifax accepted, without doing any checks, a letter from his wife (who 
has since died) that allowed her to take control of his mortgage account whilst he was ill. 
She also redirected his post meaning he was unaware for many years that substantial 
arrears had built up.
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What happened
Halifax has apologised, refunded all arrears fees and additional interest, capitalised the 
arrears, extended the term to keep the payment affordable, cleared Mr S credit file and paid 
him a total of £1,300 compensation. Our investigator thought Halifax had responded fairly to 
the complaint. Mr S has asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
This case is simpler than its been made to look. I dont have to decide if something went 
wrong; all I have to decide if the steps taken already to put things right go far enough. 
Having read everything that both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied they do. 
In reaching that conclusion, Im mindful that Mr S current situation is not solely down to what 
Halifax did or didnt do. I dont mean this unkindly, but there was also a significant role in this 
for Mr S late wife. Its important to keep in mind that Halifaxs error lay in allowing Mr S wife 
to access his mortgage, not initiating her doing so.
By taking the steps listed above, Halifax has done all that Id reasonably expect a business 
to do in a situation as unusual as this one appears to be. Its mitigated the adverse financial 
impact on Mr S and paid him what I consider to be fair compensation for his time and trouble 
spent dealing with matters after they came to light. 
Mr S says that Halifaxs response is a damage limitation exercise aimed at locking the stable 
gate after the horse has bolted. He suggests the events may have contributed to the 
deterioration in his wifes health and her eventual death. On the latter point, I appreciate 
Mr S strength of feeling in such a sensitive and delicate matter, but it seems to me thats 
unknowable. 
As to the fairness overall of Halifaxs response, the other point Id make is that Mr S accepts 
that his own approach to his financial affairs was poor and, in his words, gave his late wife 
the opportunity to manipulate the situation. If I take what he has said on face value, it doesnt 
seem unreasonable then to conclude that both Mr S and Halifax were the manipulated 
parties.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not persuaded 
that a fair outcome requires Halifax to pay Mr S more redress than it has already paid. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman