DRN-2773267
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service Ageas Insurance Limited provided him during a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy. Reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R held a motor insurance policy with Ageas which he purchased through another 
business.
Unfortunately, on 12 March 2020 he was involved in a road traffic accident. Mr R let Ageas 
know of the accident but initially Mr R didnt want to make a claim on his policy with Ageas  
instead he opted to claim directly from the third-partys (the other drivers) insurer. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the third-party insurers actions surrounding a courtesy car. Shortly 
after Mr Rs accident, the country went into lockdown as a result of the coronavirus 
pandemic. Mr R said he needed a courtesy car to keep him mobile during this time as he 
had a medical condition which made walking painful. He wasnt happy with the third-party 
insurer because he said he was told by it that he didnt need a car when the country was in 
lockdown. So, on 31 March 2020, Mr R contacted Ageas, and asked it to take over his claim, 
making it clear he needed a replacement vehicle to keep him mobile while he didnt have 
use of his own car. 
Ageas took over Mr Rs claim and made arrangements to inspect his car to see if it could be 
repaired. And it arranged a hire car for him on 2 April 2020. But On 17 April 2020, Mr R 
contacted Ageas letting it know the hire car company said it needed the hire car back. Mr R 
wasnt happy with this as hed not heard anything more about his own car being fixed and he 
still needed a car to get to and from the shops.
Ageas didnt extend Mr Rs hire car. But it asked if he could send it pictures of his car to see 
if could speed up the claim process. Ageas said it emailed Mr R letting it know what pictures 
it needed but received no response. On 20 April 2020, Ageas spoke to its total loss team, 
and it said Mr Rs car wouldnt be economical to repair. It offered Mr R £2,000 to settle his 
claim. It said this was the market value of his car.
Mr R disputed this valuation, he said the third-party insurer had offered him £2,760 to settle 
the claim. Ageas asked Mr R to send it evidence of the third-party insurers offer. Mr R sent 
this evidence on 24 April 2020, and the same day Ageas agreed to match the third-party 
insurers offer to settle his claim. Mr R said he needed to think about it. On 29 April 2020, 
Ageas said it hadnt heard anything from Mr R so it contacted him to see if he accepted the 
offer. Mr R accepted the offer and Ageas arranged a faster payment to make sure he 
received the settlement the following day.
Mr R wasnt happy with the service he was provided by Ageas, so he made a complaint. He 
said he was under the impression he would be provided with hire car for the duration of the 
claim, and said it was never made clear to him hed only have use of one for 14 days. He 
wasnt happy with Ageas suggestions that he should get a taxi either. He said was low on 
funds due to being a student. And he said he was more susceptible to catching Covid-19 as 
he had a supressed immune system. He also thought Ageass decision to write off his car 
was rushed, and thinks it should have instructed its own engineer to inspect his car, rather 
than relying on the reports from the third-party insurer.
Ageas upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. It acknowledged it never made it clear to Mr R that 
hed only have the hire car for 14 days. But it also said Mr R wasnt entitled to one at all 
under his policy, so the 14 days it did provide him one for, was done as a gesture of 
goodwill. And it thought it acted reasonably when speeding up the claim. It offered Mr R 
£105 compensation, which it said was the equivalent of another weeks hire car costs.
Mr R wasnt happy with Ageass response, so he brought his complaint to us. Mr R thought a 
fairer offer would be to pay him £105 a day for the seven days between him not having a car, 
and Ageas making an acceptable settlement offer.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Ageass offer of compensation was a fair one. He thought Ageas had tried to help Mr R keep 
mobile during his claim, and that he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car once Ageas decided his 
car was unrepairable.  He also thought Ageass decision to write off Mr Rs car was fair, and 
that it was trying to help him by speeding up this process.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says Ageas let him down when 
he needed it the most.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, in this decision, Im looking into the actions of Ageas only, not the third-party 
insurer.
Mr Rs policy with Ageas doesnt have any provision for a guaranteed courtesy or hire car. It 
says if Mr Rs car is being repaired by one of its approved repairers then, subject to 
availability, Mr R will be provided with a small courtesy car.
Strictly speaking, Mr Rs car wasnt being repaired, so his policy didnt provide him with a 
courtesy car.
Ageas was made aware Mr R wanted it to deal with his claim on 31 March 2020. By this 
point much of the country was in lockdown. Many garages were shut or operating on 
skeleton staff. And this was the case for Ageass approved repairer. When Ageas received 
Mr Rs car, it needed to assess the damage and decide whether his car would be repairable. 
But due to the pandemic, this was taking much longer than expected.
Ageas agreed to provide a hire car for Mr R. It did this to help Mr R as he was in a unique 
situation. As mentioned above, strictly speaking this wasnt something Ageas needed to do. 
But I think it was fair that it did.
But Ageas should have let Mr R know how long it was providing him this car for. I appreciate 
Ageas may not have known this at the time. But I think it likely knew the maximum time it 
was going to provide Mr R the hire car for. Had it let Mr R know this, he would likely still not 
have been pleased. But at least he would have been prepared.
Ultimately, I think speeding up the claim was the right decision too. And I think it was a 
decision done to help Mr R. I appreciate Mr R thinks Ageas should have inspected his car itself. But at the time, due to the pandemic, that was the very reason for the delay in the 
claim. So Ageass decision to try and speed up the claim, as another option to progress it 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And Im satisfied it was reasonable to rely 
on the third-party engineers report to settle the claim too.
I understand Mr R thinks this decision was rushed but if anything, I think in hindsight Ageas 
could have sped up his claim earlier in the process. As mentioned above, at the time it 
received his claim, the country was in lockdown. And I fully appreciate that at that point, no-
one knew how long the lockdown would be. But when Ageas took the hire car away from 
Mr R, it sped up the claim by speaking to its total loss team and decided to write off his car 
after looking at the third-party engineers report. Had Ageas done this at the point it received 
the claim, as opposed to when the hire car provision ended, Mr Rs claim may well have 
been settled within the 14 days he was in a hire car.
Once Ageas sped up the claim, it offered Mr R a settlement figure within one working day of 
the hire car provision ending. I appreciate Mr R didnt accept this offer and challenged it. 
Three days later Ageas agreed to match the third-party insurers offer on the same day it 
received evidence of this. I think thats a reasonable timeframe. I appreciate another few 
days passed while Mr R decided if he wanted to accept the offer, but I cant fairly hold Ageas 
responsible for that.
Mr R said Ageas let him down when he needed it the most. And I understand why he was 
unhappy with its suggestions to get a taxi considering what it knew about his condition. But 
Ageass role is to treat him fairly and provide Mr R the service its required to under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied it did that. So while I cant say Mr R is 
incorrect for feeling let down, and I understand why he feels he was, I cant fairly say Ageas 
let him down in terms of not providing him a service it should have.
I think Ageas tried to help Mr R. It provided him a hire car while the repairer couldnt look at 
the car and sped up the claim to try and raise payment as soon as possible once the hire car 
provision was over. Ive listed to the calls too, and I think Ageass suggestion of taxis was 
made with the best intent. But I can understand why Mr R wasnt happy with this.
That said, Ageas could have done more as explained above. Had it told Mr R the longest he 
would have a car would be 14 days he could have been more prepared. And I think theres 
an argument Ageas could have started the process to write Mr Rs car off sooner, increasing 
the chances of him being paid the total loss figure within the 14 days he was kept mobile by 
Ageas. Ageas has offered Mr R £105 in compensation. And Im satisfied thats fair in all the 
circumstances of this complaint so dont require it to increase that offer. But if its not already 
paid Mr R the £105, then it should arrange for this to be paid to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman