DRN-3261721
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account with Clydesdale Bank Plc. The 
complaint has been brought with the consent of both parties, but all our dealings have been 
with Mrs G. 
Mrs G is unhappy about the customer service she received from Clydesdale in relation to a 
term extension and product switch on her and Mr Gs mortgage account. Specifically, Mrs G 
believes a member of Clydesdales staff was deceitful in not acknowledging information 
Mrs G had been given about her mortgage account. Mrs G says that the staff member 
denied her version of events, and only admitted to listening to the call when Mrs G provided 
the time of the call and the employees name.
Mrs G says that if the staff member had said straight away that she was sorry and 
acknowledged Mrs G was being truthful, she would never have taken the matter any further. 
But Mrs G is disgusted that this didnt happen and believes that a suitable amount of 
compensation should be the total of overpayments in the two months before the new 
product was put in place, with a gesture of goodwill on top.
What happened
The complaint arises out of a term extension and product switch taken out by Mr and Mrs G 
on their mortgage account. The existing two-year fixed rate on the mortgage was coming to 
an end in November 2020 and Mr and Mrs G wanted to switch to a new rate to avoid being 
on Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Due to the short term remaining on the mortgage, they 
needed to extend the term to take out a new fixed rate product.
Unlike their previous product switch which Mr and Mrs G had applied for online themselves, 
the term extension and product switch required a full application to be made.
Mrs G initially contacted Clydesdale on 30 September 2020 to discuss changing the rate. 
Clydesdale emailed on 6 October 2020 asking Mr and Mrs G to book an appointment. After 
another call on 2 November an appointment was booked for 16 November 2020. The 
application was made and the offer was issued on 29 December 2020. The new rate was put 
in place on 8 January 2021.
Mrs G says that during the calls with Clydesdale she was told that if the new fixed rate was 
delayed due to Covid and the mortgage went onto the higher SVR, the difference in payment 
would be refunded. But the January 2021 payment was taken at SVR, and Mrs G says the 
February 2021 payment was also taken at SVR. Mrs G says she and Mr G are about £600 
out of pocket as a result.
Mrs G complained about the payments that had been taken and said that shed been told 
shed get a refund of the difference in payment on SVR and the new fixed rate if there was a 
delay in putting the new fixed rate in place. However, Clydesdale said that interest had been 
correctly applied and no refund was due. Clydesdale noted Mrs G had contacted Clydesdale 
to ask generic questions about when interest rates would apply, but the bank explained that 
as the mortgage rate was put in place from 8 January 2021, and interest was charged 
monthly in arrears, the new payment would apply from March 2021. 
Mrs G also complained that the two-year fixed rate taken out in September 2018 had been 
mis-sold and that Clydesdale should never have allowed them to take this out. Clydesdale 
explained that no advice had been given about the 2018 product switch, which Mr and Mrs G 
had chosen themselves online. Clydesdale offered £50 for customer service issues, which 
Mrs G didnt accept.
Mrs G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. He was satisfied the 2018 product switch hadnt been mis-sold by Clydesdale. He 
was also satisfied that payments had been correctly applied to the account. Thats because 
Clydesdale applies interest monthly in arrears. As a result, the December 2020 payment was 
based on the last payment on the two-year fixed rate which ended in November 2020. The 
January 2021 payment covered Decembers interest at SVR and the February payment was 
based on the interest applied in January 2021 which began at SVR. Given this, the 
investigator thought interest had been properly applied.
After listening to the recorded calls that were available, he found no evidence that Mrs G had 
been told thered be a refund of payments in the event of a delay in putting a new product in 
place, due to Covid. There was no recording of the call Mrs G had with the staff member 
who Mrs G says accused her of lying about this.
However, the investigator thought Clydesdale could have offered an earlier appointment 
than 16 November 2020. He didnt think this would have made a difference in the long run, 
because a full application had to be made which had a timescale of 6-8 weeks. He asked 
Clydesdale to pay £100 compensation for this delay, which the bank agreed to do.
Mrs G didnt accept this, however. In her response, Mrs G has explained that her complaint 
is really now only about her disgust at Clydesdales staff member calling her a liar without 
making adequate enquiries first to ascertain whether or not Mrs G was telling the truth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mrs G has clarified that the only issue shes still upset about is that she feels 
she was being called a liar by a member of Clydesdales staff. However, for the sake of 
completeness, I will deal with all the issues raised.
2018 mis-sale complaint:  Mrs G says that when this product was taken out it was never 
made clear to her and Mr G that the mortgage would revert to SVR at the end of the two-
year fixed rate. However, this product switch was undertaken by Mr and Mrs G selecting a 
product online, without any advice given by Clydesdale. The offer document explained 
clearly that at the end of the two-year fixed rate the product would revert to SVR, and also 
explains the total term of the mortgage. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G were unhappy that the product reverted to SVR and that, in order 
to get a new product, theyd have to extend the term. However, Im satisfied they chose the 
product themselves and didnt ask Clydesdale for advice about it. I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint.
2020/21 Term extension and product switch: The term extension required a full 
application to be made, as this was a material change to the mortgage. Clydesdale was entitled to assess affordability, particularly as I note Mr and Mrs Gs financial position had 
changed since they originally took out the mortgage. Im satisfied the application proceeded 
within the timescale Id have expected, the application having been made on 16 November 
2020 and the offer issued at the end of December 2020. 
Application of interest: I can understand why Mrs G was confused about the information 
shed been given by Clydesdale. Mrs G was told that a new product needed to be in place 
before the 15th of the month for it to take effect, and I can see she made a couple of test 
calls to Clydesdale to confirm what shed been told. However, although that is correct, it 
doesnt mean that interest for that month is at the new product rate. Thats because interest 
is charged in arrears, so if a product is put in place in January (as was the case here), then 
interest is applied in February in arrears (so at the previous rate  in this case SVR) and 
from March onwards interest is applied in arrears at the new product rate.
Looking at the interest thats been applied to Mr and Mrs Gs account, Im satisfied this is 
what has happened. Given this, Im not persuaded interest has been applied incorrectly.
Customer service issues: This is really the issue Mrs G is most unhappy about. I will 
explain at the start that a complaint about the way a bank has dealt with a complaint isnt 
usually something were able to consider. Thats because complaint-handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so its not covered by our rules. But in this case, this issue is 
intrinsically linked with the events complained about and happened contemporaneously, and 
so I think its all part of the same series of events. It wouldnt be fair to separate it out and 
say we cant consider it.
I can see Mrs G feels very strongly that Clydesdales staff member accused her of being 
untruthful, and that she did so without making proper enquiries first. The relevant call isnt 
available here  Clydesdale has explained that this particular line is non-recording. Its not 
therefore possible for me to determine exactly what was said. I think its more likely than not, 
given that the bank was already satisfied interest had been correctly applied, that Clydesdale 
maintained that Mrs G wouldnt have been told shed get a refund of the difference between 
SVR and the new fixed rate. This wasnt the banks policy and so I can understand why the 
bank was insistent that Mrs G wouldnt have been told this. 
Ive listened to all the available calls, and I cant see that Mrs G was told shed be refunded 
the difference between SVR and the new rate. In any event, as Ive explained above, there 
was no delay by the bank in processing the application due to Covid (the reason Mrs G said 
she was given for refunds being made), so even if Mrs G had been told this (and there is no 
evidence of it either way), it wouldnt have affected the timescale for the application.
Putting things right
I think Clydesdale could have offered an earlier appointment, however, given that Mrs G first 
contacted the bank on 30 September 2020. The bank explained shed need to make an 
appointment, but didnt follow this up, leaving it to Mrs G to contact the bank again to make 
the appointment. Clydesdale has acknowledged it could have done better here and has 
agreed to pay £100 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Its proportionate to the delay but, ultimately, didnt affect the timescales involved in putting in 
place the new product.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation in 
full and final settlement of this complaint. I make no other order or award.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman