DRN-3339225
The complaint
Mr O complains that the loans he had from PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr O was approved for nine loans from Mr Lender between October 2014 and October 2018 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max 
Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 20 Oct 2014 £300 3m £205.00 6 Jan 2015 On time
2 21 Apr 2015 £100 44d £136.00 5 Jun 2015 8 Jun 2015
3 10 Jun 2015 £400 3m £219.73 4 Sep 2015 20 Aug 2015
4 24 Aug 2015 £850 6m £440.86 4 Mar 2016 10 Dec 2015
5 14 Dec2015 £1,000 6m £366.66 6 Jun 2016 9 Mar 2016
6 27 Apr 2016 £1,500 12m £395.00 5 May 2017 7 Mar 2017
7 9 Mar 2017 £1,000 6m £385.06 6 Sep 2017 23 May 2017
8 10 Aug 2017 £1,000 6m £352.96 6 Feb 2018 31 Jan 2018
9 4 Oct 2018 £1,000 12m £236.33 8 Oct 2019 29 Nov 2019
Mr O says he had a poor credit score and multiple credit accounts at the time of the lending.  
He says the nine loans he had from Mr Lender were often in quick succession and he was 
using one loan to repay another. Mr O says he doesnt believe Mr Lender carried out 
sufficient checks and the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible. He says the lending 
has severely affected both his financial and his emotional health.
Mr Lender says it feels further assessments may have been appropriate before loans 7 and 
8 and offered to refund interest on those loans (plus 8%) and remove them from Mr Os 
credit file.
Mr O did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He considered 
proportionate checks were likely to have shown Mr O was having problems managing his 
money by loan 4 and that his pattern of borrowing by loan 6 suggested he was becoming 
reliant on short-term loans. Our adjudicator said Mr Lender should refund interest charged 
on loans 4 to 8 (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any negative information about loans 
4 and 5 from Mr Os credit file. He added that loans 6 to 8 should be removed from the credit 
file in its entirety.
Mr Lender offered to uphold the complaint about loans 5 to 8, but Mr O declined its offer.
Mr Lender responded to say that its checks for loan 4 showed Mr O had one outstanding 
short-term loan for which he said he was repaying £100 per month. It says the results of its 
checks showed no evidence of financial difficulty and so further checks were not 
proportionate for loan 4.
Mr O accepted the adjudicators view but added that at the time of loan 9 he was also 
repaying 5 other loans with combined repayments of over £900.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loans 1, 2 and 3
As these were Mr Os first loans with Mr Lender and the repayments were a maximum of 
14% of his income, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough. There 
was nothing in the available information to indicate Mr O was in financial difficulties, or that 
the repayments were unaffordable, so I cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have 
approved loans 1, 2 or 3.
Loan 4
When Mr O applied for loan 4, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it fully understood 
his financial circumstances before approving this, and any future, applications. I say that 
because:
This was Mr Os fourth loan application and hed been borrowing from Mr Lender for 
over ten months;
This was the second time Mr O had applied for a new loan within a few days of 
repaying a previous one;
The loan amount had more than doubled;
The maximum repayment had more than doubled;
The loan term had also doubled;
Mr Os said his family circumstances had changed.
Ive looked into what Mr Lender is likely to have found had it carried out better checks for 
loan 4 and I can see Mr O had at least three other outstanding short-term loans at the time. 
Im satisfied, therefore, that if Mr Lender had conducted proportionate checks, it would have 
found Mr O was already struggling to manage his money and was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay a new loan. So I find Mr Lender was irresponsible to have approved 
loan 4.
Loans 5 to 8
Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold these loans, so I wont consider them further here, 
other than to say that the overall pattern of Mr Os borrowing from loan 6 means any 
information recorded about these loans is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove them 
entirely from Mr Os credit file.
Loan 9I accept Mr O says he had a number of other loans at the time of loan 9, but as there was a 
gap of over nine months between loans 8 and 9, I find it reasonable that Mr Lender 
considered this as a new chain of lending. As such, there was no indication that Mr O was 
reliant on short-term lending and Mr Lender asked Mr O about his income and expenditure 
and checked his credit file. The credit check showed nothing of concern and Mr Lender was 
entitled to rely on the information Mr O provided which indicated the loan was affordable. So 
I dont find Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loan 9.
In summary, Im upholding Mr Os complaint about loans 4 to 8, and Mr Lender should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it refused to lend to Mr O, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr O may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr O towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 4 to 8;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr O which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr O originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;C. Pay Mr O the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Os borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove loans 6 to 
8 entirely from Mr Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman