DRN-2742393
The complaint
Miss C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C was given two loans by 118 118 Money as follows: 
LoanDate taken Date paid Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 Jan 2017 29/01/2018 £1,000 24
months£78.29
2 Jan 2018 Debt sold £1,298 24
months£97.17
When Miss C complained to 118 118 Money, it upheld her complaint about loan 2. It 
offered to put things right in line with the way we would expect lenders to do in these 
circumstances by removing interest charges from the balance owing and removing 
information it had added to her credit file.
Miss C didnt feel this went far enough towards settling her complaint as she felt loan 1 
shouldnt have been provided to her either. So she brought her complaint to us.  
Miss Cs complaint about loan 1 has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt 
think 118 118 Money did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan. But our 
adjudicator also said that he didnt feel hed seen enough to say that if 118 118 Money had 
done better checks it wouldve made a different lending decision.
So our adjudicator wasnt able to say that the loan shouldnt have been agreed and he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld or that 118 118 Money needed to pay anything 
to Miss C.
Our adjudicator told Miss C that he would review her complaint if she sent him bank 
statements for the 3 months running up to January 2017 when she took out loan 1. 
Although Miss C sent in a number of pictures of her bank account, it wasnt clear what 
dates this information covered. So our adjudicator said his view remained unchanged.  
Miss C said she wasnt happy with our adjudicators view. The complaint came to me to 
decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Cs complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss C and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss C would be able to repay loan 1 in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
what checks did 118 118 Money do before agreeing to lend to Miss C?
118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss C before it agreed the loan. It 
asked her for details of her income and monthly expenditure. It used industry standard 
verification checks to validate the information Miss C had provided in her application. 
118 118 Money also carried out some credit checks to find out how much Miss C paid 
towards her credit commitments. 
what did the checks show? 
Miss C said she was living at home with parents and that her net monthly income was 
£1,546. It seems she told 118 118 Money that her monthly outgoings were around £400. 
118 118 Money saw from its credit checks that Miss C had a total outstanding credit balance 
of £1,259 and 4 active accounts.
So 118 118 Money felt the loan repayments of £78.29 were affordable for her without 
causing her financial difficulty.
did 118 118 Money do proportionate checks? 
118 118 Money could see Miss C had some adverse information showing on her credit 
record. There was an unsatisfied county court judgement in respect of which Miss C still 
owed £745. And there were 2 defaults recorded within the previous 36 months. 118 118 
Money was also able to see that Miss C had a record of taking out short-term loans.
Our adjudicator felt that a proportionate check wouldve required 118 118 Money to go 
further in its checking and gather, and independently check, some more detailed 
information about Miss Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her.  
Given what Miss C had told 118 118 Money about her financial situation and home 
circumstances I think this information would have seemed to be at odds with what a 
lender might reasonably expect to have seen on Miss Cs credit report. 
Her credit file showed she had previously had some problems managing her money for 
which there was no obvious explanation.
So, like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 118 118 Money did were enough. 
I think it would have been proportionate for 118 118 Money do have done more to check 
the true state of Miss Cs finances before agreeing the loan.
did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
Although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that isnt a good enough reason for me to be able to uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
In order for Miss Cs complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate 
checks would have shown 118 118 Money that Miss C couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Miss C has previously provided us with various bank statements, including those covering 
the period September  December 2016  which I have been able to look at.
I've been able to see details of the bank account into which her salary was paid  Miss C 
also had another current account showing on her credit file but, as far as I can see, Miss C 
hasnt ever sent us any statements for that account. Her credit file showed a nil balance for 
that account so it may be an account that she no longer used.  
The bank statements Ive seen show that Miss C already had 4 outstanding short term loans 
when she applied for loan 1  and she had taken out 3 of them in December 2016. But this 
was information that 118 118 Money could already see from its credit checks. And I dont 
think it was enough of a concern to have made 118 118 Money think that its loan wasnt 
likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss C. Typically people spend more money around 
Christmas so its not surprising to see borrowing go up around this time. And it isnt unusual 
for borrowers applying for high cost credit like this to have an impaired credit history or other 
short term loans  and its not necessarily a reason for a lender to decline a loan application. 
Its clear that Miss Cs spending was more each month than the amount of £400 it seems 
she told 118 118 Money. And her bank statements show she made a high number of cash 
machine withdrawals  sometimes for several hundred pounds at a time. I dont know what 
that money was spent on. But I dont think this information was sufficient to have prompted a 
lender reasonably to the conclusion that this loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable 
for Miss C. 
Her current account bank statement showed that Miss C was largely operating her bank 
account in credit  she tended to slip into overdraft in the second half of the month, usually in 
the ten days or so running up to the date her pay went into the account. But the biggest 
amount I can see she went overdrawn in the 3 months leading up to her taking out loan 1 
was around £250  for which she incurred a bank fee of £3. That incident apart, it looks like 
the account was being operated within its agreed limits. 
I think its fair to say that 118 118 Money had an incomplete understanding of Miss Cs true 
financial situation. But I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if 118 118 
Money had sought a fuller picture of Miss Cs finances it shouldve realised that the loan 
wasnt sustainable for her. 
Even if it had completed the proportionate checks that it ought to have done, it still 
wouldnt have seen enough in my view to prompt it to decline her loan application. I think 
it wouldve been reasonable to conclude that the loan it provided looked like it ought to 
be sustainably affordable for Miss C and that it was fair to lend to her. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold her irresponsible lending complaint. 
has 118 118 Money acted unfairly in any other way?  
I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Miss C in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to say that 118 118 Money 
needs to do anything more than it has done already or pay anything further to Miss C.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
In summary, Miss C has responded to say that the information she has provided shows 
clearly that she was struggling financially and getting into more debt and being allowed to 
keep borrowing added to her debt problems.
118 118 Money has confirmed it has no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss C feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. Miss C hasnt provided 
me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already 
considered the main points she has mentioned above when thinking about my provisional 
decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome. I can 
understand that Miss C is disappointed in the outcome of her complaint but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Madison CF 
UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman