DRN-2746950
The complaint
Mr P complains that Equifax Limited failed to amend and update information it held about 
him.  
What happened
Mr C has an account with C, a company which provides consumers with access to their 
credit scores and other financial information held by credit reference agencies, including (in 
the UK) Equifax. In August 2019 he accessed that account and noticed that the address it 
held was out of date. 
Mr P contacted C to say that his address was wrong. He provided details of where he had 
lived since August 2015, including his then current address where he had also lived between 
2015 and 2018. C passed his enquiry to Equifax.  
Equifax responded to say that it was looking into the matter and that it had created a support 
account on Mr Ps behalf. That would, Equifax said, enable him to follow the status of his 
query. 
Mr P contacted Equifax again in January 2020 to complain that he was not able to update 
his address on the Equifax system. He said he had not received any reply to his emails. 
Equifax responded a few days later to say that it had not completed its investigation into the 
complaint. It wrote again in early March 2020 to say much the same thing and to provide Mr 
P with information about how he could refer the matter to this service. Mr P referred the case 
to us in April 2020.  
In June 2020 Equifax contacted Mr P again, providing information about the ombudsman for 
a second time. This time, however, it told Mr P which address it held on file for him  namely, 
the address he had given in August 2019. 
At the end of September 2020 Mr P contacted Equifax again, as he was still unable to 
access his account so that he could update his address online. Equifax told him that he 
could update his address by telephone and that he could activate his online account by 
providing documentation proving his identity. He would need a government-issued document 
such as a passport or driving licence and a recent utility bill, bank statement or similar 
document with his address. He would need to contact C directly to ask it to change its 
records. Equifaxs records indicate that Mr P then called to change his address, as he had 
recently moved.   
Our investigator indicated that he thought Equifax had treated Mr P fairly. He noted that 
Equifax had explained that could not amend the information held by C. Only C could do that. 
He was satisfied too that Equifax only held one account for Mr P and that it held the correct 
address for him  that is, the address he had notified to Equifax in early October 2020. Mr P 
did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue here is Mr Ps concern that Equifax held an incorrect address for him and did 
not update its records. Equifax says however that Mr P applied for a credit report in 
November 2019, using the address he had notified in August. Equifax told Mr P in June 2020 
that its records showed his address was that which he had said he was living at from August 
2019. So it seems that the address was updated in response to that and had been changed 
by November 2019 at the latest. 
I do not believe either that Equifax held more than one set of records for Mr P, as he says he 
was told. Rather, it says it opened a support account to deal with his concerns about the 
address issue. I think this may have created some confusion, but it was not a separate set of 
records.  
I think it would have been helpful if Equifax had responded very much sooner to Mr Ps 
concerns. Even if it was unable to address his complaint in full, it could have told him which 
address it held for him before well before June 2020. As the investigator noted, however, 
wider concerns about how a business handles complaints are primarily a matter for the 
regulator.  
Equifax did however deal more quickly with Mr Ps concerns about setting up an account so 
that he could amend his details online. And it changed his address promptly when asked to 
do so in early October 2020. It also explained clearly that Mr P would need to contact C 
directly to ask it to change its own records.
Since the evidence indicates that Equifax did change Mr Ps details when asked to do so, I 
believe that the investigator was right to reach the conclusions he did. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Equifax Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman