DRN-2217594
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Newline Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to pay her 
claim for vet costs under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought her policy with Newline in April 2018. In January 2020 she made a claim for 
the vets treatment her dog had received for a skin condition (atopic dermatitis) over the 
previous two years. Newline declined the claim because of the exclusion in Mrs Ms policy 
that said it doesnt provide cover for any pre-existing conditions. It said the vets notes 
confirmed the onset of Mrs Ms dogs skin condition was January 2018, which was before 
Mrs M took out her pet insurance policy in April 2018. It said Mrs Ms policy didnt cover 
illness, accident and injury which was either noted or treated prior to her purchasing her 
policy, or within the initial 15 days of the policy.
Mrs M complained and subsequently brought her complaint to this service. She said it had 
taken a long time to identify her dogs skin condition, following a long elimination process. 
She thought it was unfair for Newline to say it was a pre-existing condition when it hadnt 
been diagnosed as such by her vet until more recently.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He thought Newline had acted fairly in 
saying her dogs condition was pre-existing. He recognised it wasnt reasonable for Mrs M to 
have known her dog had atopic dermatitis before the policy began. But he said the condition
didnt have to be diagnosed for it to be pre-existing; the condition or complication only had to 
be have been identified or investigated by a vet. 
As Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs M but, having done so, I find that I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Mrs Ms pet insurance policy with Newline sets out what treatment costs itll refund. The 
policy also says it doesnt cover any pre-existing conditions, including injuries or illnesses 
that showed clinical signs before the cover started. The policy defines a pre-existing 
condition as Any condition or complication directly resulting from a condition that has been 
identified or investigated by a vet, is known to you or is otherwise reasonable for you to have 
known about prior to the start of insurance.
Mrs M was sent this information when she bought the insurance policy in April 2018 so Im 
satisfied she was aware of the extent of the cover. 
Mrs M thinks its unreasonable for Newline to say her dogs condition was pre-existing when 
it hadnt been diagnosed until after she took out the policy. She also says the symptoms her 
dog was displaying before she bought the policy werent identified by the vet as being 
caused by the condition that was later diagnosed. But Mrs Ms policy says a pre-existing 
condition doesnt have to have been diagnosed; only that the condition has been identified or 
investigated by a vet. The clinical notes from the vet show that Mrs Ms dog was suffering 
from a skin condition in January 2018, before Mrs M took out the policy with Newline. Her 
dog received treatment for a skin condition over the course of the following two years. It 
wasnt diagnosed as atopic dermatitis until later but the notes show her dog had a skin 
condition before Mrs M bought the policy. 
Mrs M acknowledged this when she called the insurance broker in September 2018 and 
asked about making a claim for her dogs ear infections. She said the ear infections had 
been happening for about a year and her vet thought they were due to an allergy. I think this 
supports the contention there were clinical signs her dog had a skin condition before Mrs M 
bought the policy. 
In light of the above, and on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a 
pre-existing condition upon which Newline can rely to refuse to pay this claim. I sympathise 
with Mrs Cs situation but, in light of the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think 
Newline has declined her claim unfairly and dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman