DRN-3629980
The complaint
Ms R complaints that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Halifax is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Although I accept Ms R ultimately lost 
these funds to a scam, it is not in dispute that she authorised the payments. So the starting 
position is that she is liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Halifax failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
I appreciate that Ms R paid £4,700 in one day, over two payments. Im not persuaded that 
ought to have made Halifax realise she might be at risk from fraud. It appears she had 
previously paid a similar/connected company prior to these disputed payments. And she had 
made a payment, around six months prior, for a similar value of the total of these two 
payments. Although I appreciate this went to a different type of recipient, it made the amount 
paid appear less unusual and therefore less suspicious. 
Ive taken into account that these payments were made to a cryptocurrency provider. Im 
aware that scams involving cryptocurrency are becoming increasingly prevalent and well-
known to banks. But, at the time these payments were made, I think it was reasonable for 
Halifax to take into account a range of factors when deciding whether to make further 
enquiries of its customer about a particular payment. And, based on these factors, I consider 
it reasonable that Halifax didnt view the payments as suspicious. 
Ms Rs representative says the source of the funds ought to have appeared unusual. But the 
incoming payments it has highlighted amount to significantly more than the amount of the 
disputed payments. So its unclear how, or whether, all of these are connected to the fraud. 
And I dont think the incoming payments were enough to reasonably trigger concern that 
Ms R was likely at risk from fraud. 
Having considered the disputed payments, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought 
reasonably to have triggered Ms Rs fraud monitoring systems or alerted Halifax that she 
was likely being scammed.  
Ive also thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover the funds after 
Ms R reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. That process is subject to the 
rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters to final arbitration if 
there was no prospect of success. 
Ms R used her debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So she wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the service would be 
considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Halifax 
have acted unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman