DRN-1942680
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
handled a claim on her insurance policy. 
In May 2019 Mrs H made a claim for a damaged sofa. Acasta visited the following week and 
decided to settle the claim by repairing the sofa. It placed an order for the part it needed the 
following day but in June 2019 it was informed that the part was no longer available. 
Following this, it sent Mrs H a credit note to spend in the store where she had bought the 
sofa. However, it later transpired that the store no longer accepted these and the process 
had changed so credit notes were no longer being issued.
Acasta ordered Mrs Hs new sofas at the end of July 2019 and they were due at the end of 
November 2019, however they didnt arrive until December 2019. And Mrs H opted to have 
them delivered on a day which was convenience for her, which was the following January.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed that it had taken a 
long time for the new sofas to arrive but said that the delays werent caused by Acasta. Mrs 
H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have reviewed the timeline of events and once the sofa was ordered at the end of 
July 2019, I dont think there was anything more Acasta could have been expected to 
do  it was waiting for the sofas to be made so they could be delivered to Mrs H. This 
appears to have taken several months but while the communication could have been 
clearer, I dont think the delay could have been avoided or that it was the result of 
anything that Acasta had done wrong. So I have focused on the period before the 
sofas were ordered.
I can see there were occasions where Acasta didnt provide the best customer 
service  it sent Mrs H a credit note that couldnt be used and Mrs H had to chase it 
for updates, which I realise would have been frustrating for her. But overall, the total 
time Acasta took for the final order to be placed was just over two months  and 
much of that time was spent waiting for the manufacturer to respond to it about the 
part it needed.
Ultimately, while I think Acasta could have done more to provide a high level of 
customer service, that isnt the same as it having made a mistake that has had a 
significant impact on the progress of the claim. I can only uphold a complaint where I 
believe Acasta made a mistake and in this instance, I dont think it has.
So for these reasons, although I understand Mrs Hs frustrations, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman