DRN-2455822
The complaint
Mrs J, represented by Mr H, complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) refused to pay a 
claim on her buildings insurance.
What happened
Mrs J made a claim on her buildings insurance when a large section of her garden wall 
collapsed. She believed that a storm with heavy rain and gusts of wind caused the collapse. 
HDI asked a loss adjuster to look into the claim. The loss adjuster asked a firm of structural 
engineers to visit and find out why the wall collapsed. The structural engineers wrote a 
structural report. The report concluded that the wall was of unusual construction, and 
our inspectionindicates that collapse occurred during unusually heavy rainfall and our 
inspection of the remnants of this wall has revealed no significant evidence of former 
structural movement, bulging or instabilityOur inspection has revealed a form of 
construction which would be susceptible to deterioration over time as the two leaves of the 
wall have not been tied together during its construction and with a core of loose lime mortar 
rubble fill, significant water penetration could easily lead to separation of the two leaves and 
almost immediate instability and collapseWe consider that this collapse was most likely 
triggered by an accumulation of water within the area between the inner and outer leaves of 
this wall.
The structural engineers report included a number of photos of the wall, including one which 
is described as showing a conventional cavity wall tie embedded in the collapsed brickwork, 
but NB length of tie would not be sufficient to extend beyond the lime mortar core of this wall 
and into the stone rear leaf.
The loss adjuster then considered the structural engineers report in the context of Mrs Js 
insurance policy. It looked at whether the loss of the wall could be said to be due to the 
storm or whether it was the case that the wall had gradually deteriorated over time. The loss 
adjusters conclusion was that given the walls considerable age, the lack of any external 
evidence of previous deterioration, and the fact that weather conditions on the day of the 
collapse were towards the extreme, we would find if difficult to frame an argument by which 
one of the exclusions were brought to bearWe therefore would have difficulty, as matters 
stand, in proposing repudiation of this claim by application of any of the policy exceptions 
and conditions.
The loss adjuster went to on suggest that HDI might want to ask another engineer to carry 
out a desk-top review of the case. HDI appointed a firm of consultant civil and geotechnical 
engineers to do this. In its report the civil and geotechnical engineers said that insurers have 
set definitions of storm, using rainfall and wind speed, typically 50mm of rain in 24 hours. 
The civil and geotechnical engineers concluded that, as the rainfall on the day Mrs Js wall 
collapsed was a lot less than this and there were no winds strong enough to count as a 
storm, the collapse could not be called accidental damage. It also noted that as the wall was 
very old, it must have withstood hundreds of similar or worse events in the past. The civil 
and geotechnical engineers concluded that the claim could be declined under either of the 
exclusions gradual cause or deterioration, and the heavy rain was merely the trigger for 
the collapse following long-term deterioration.
HDI wrote to Mrs J and refused her claim. It said the claim was under the storm section of 
her policy, and while storm was not defined in the policy, it is widely accepted that Storm is 
characterised by violent winds which are usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. It went 
on to say that on the day the wall collapsed the rainfall had been significantly less than the 
50mm in 24 hours which is generally accepted in the insurance industry as being storm 
conditions. HDI said that Although the collapse occurred during a period of heavy rain this 
was not exceptional and could merely have provided a trigger for the collapse following long-
term deterioration. Indeed the wall has been subject to the same or more severe weather 
conditions hundreds of times since construction and, in the absence of another external 
factor, only a progressive deterioration in the structure can explain why the collapse 
occurred recently as opposed to during any previous time with more exceptional rainfall. 
Mrs J complained to HDI about its decision to refuse her claim. HDI did not uphold her 
complaint, saying that it did not believe there were storm conditions at the time the wall 
collapsed. HDI again said that storm was not defined in its policies so it used this dictionary 
definition 
A violent disturbance of the atmosphere with strong winds and usually accompanied by rain, 
thunder, lightning, or snow.
HDI said it had checked the weather on the day the wall collapsed, and there were no 
lightning strikes, and while it was breezy there were no gusts over 20 mph. HDI also said 
that while there was heavy rainfall on the day, there had been even heavier rain on a 
previous occasion and the wall had not collapsed then. 
Mrs J was not happy with this response, and made a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and did not uphold her complaint. The investigator looked in 
detail at the weather conditions in the area on the day the wall collapsed. He noted there 
was heavy rainfall but no gusts of wind above 47 mph, which is usually taken as the lowest 
wind speed which would cause slight damage (slates or tiles removed). Winds capable of 
causing structural damage are generally considered to be 55 mph and above. The 
investigator said he would not expect rainfall alone to damage a well-maintained structure 
without any pre-existing faults. The investigator also checked weather records for the 
previous year, and found an occasion where the rainfall was heavier and the winds stronger 
as HDI said, which did not cause the wall to collapse. The investigator concluded that the 
underlying cause of the walls collapse was gradual deterioration, which is excluded by Mrs 
Js policy.
Mrs J did not agree with the investigators view. Mr H on her behalf disputed the weather 
conditions described by the investigator and his interpretation of her policy. However the 
investigator still did not uphold her complaint.
Mrs J did not agree with the investigators second view, and so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Mr H has provided us with information about the weather on the day, photos 
of the wall, information about the construction of similar walls, and opinions from other 
people about the weather on the day and possible causes for the collapse. Mrs J wants her 
claim for rebuilding the wall to be paid in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs Js policy schedule confirms that she had Premier Home Insurance with accidental 
damage included as standard. Her policy defined accidental damage as unexpected and 
unintended damage caused by sudden means.
HDI is relying on this clause in Mrs Js policy 
This policy does not insure the following:
11 Loss or damage arising from:
gradual causes
wear and tear
corrosion, deterioration or similar causes
wet or dry rot.
Firstly I need to consider whether HDI has shown that the exclusion applies. In other words, 
did the wall collapse due to sudden means or gradual deterioration ? Because of the wording 
of Mrs Js policy, it does not matter whether there actually was weather that would meet the 
definition of a storm. What matters is whether the wall collapsed due to some kind of 
unexpected sudden event or whether it collapsed because it had gradually deteriorated over 
time.
Mr H says that there were strong winds and heavy rain on the day the wall collapsed. He 
says this could have caused the wall to collapse, or it could have been hit by a flying branch 
or struck by lightning. He says due to the design of the driveway, the wind could have been 
funnelled onto the wall with greater strength than the recorded speeds. A builder who was 
working in the area and Mrs Js neighbour both said there were extremely strong gusts of 
wind that day.
Mr H also consulted a university professor of meteorology, who said that local intense gusts 
were possible, but hard to demonstrate. He also said that channelling by the driveway was 
unlikely to be very important as the wind could escape upwards.
I have looked at weather reports for the area for the week in question. The highest recorded 
wind is significantly less than the 47 mph that might cause minor damage. There was quite 
heavy rain, but nothing that we would expect would cause damage in the absence of strong 
winds. I accept that there could have been very localised stronger gusts of wind, but I have 
seen no measurements or recordings to show that this was actually the case.
Mr H says that the wall was in good order and parts of it did not collapse. He says this same 
part of the wall partially collapsed some years before and had been repaired, so should have 
been in better condition than the part that did not collapse. But I have seen the engineers 
reports obtained by HDI, and they did identify some issues with the design and construction 
of the wall. The reports also noted that the ties intended to hold the wall together were not 
long enough to do so.
The wall did withstand much worse weather conditions the year before, so on balance I think 
it most likely that the collapse was caused by gradual deterioration over time.  
So on balance I do believe that the exclusion applies. But in some cases like this, this 
service feels it would be unfair for the insurer to refuse the claim, so I need to also consider 
whether it was fair and reasonable for HDI to refuse Mrs Js claim in the circumstances.HDI says it considered Mrs Js claim under the storm damage part of her policy, and refused 
her claim because there was no storm. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances, 
particularly looking at the weather reports. However as Mrs J had accidental damage cover I 
need to also look at whether HDI should have paid her claim under that part of her policy. If 
a claim is being considered under the added accidental damage section of a policy, it 
doesnt matter if the consumer should have been aware of that gradual damage or not. If the 
damage was caused gradually, we think its fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage 
exclusion to decline a claim. Thats to protect against the insurance policy paying claims that 
are really maintenance issues that any homeowner is liable for.
So on balance I do think it was fair and reasonable for HDI to rely on the exclusion to refuse 
Mrs Js claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman