DRN-3673523
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2019, Mr B opened an account with Starling. A few weeks later, he received an online 
transfer, which he then transferred away to another account of his. The funds he received 
were later reported as fraudulent. Starling closed the account and registered a CIFAS 
marker against Mr B for misusing his facility. Mr B was a teenager.
Mr B complained to our service at the time. He didnt yet know about the CIFAS marker, so 
this complaint was just about the closing of his account. He said hed just sold this person 
some currency. Our service asked him for evidence he was entitled to the funds  e.g. that 
hed genuinely sold something to the sender and delivered it  but he didnt provide any.
In early 2022, Mr B complained about the CIFAS marker, following the closure of his main 
account. Starling removed the marker within a couple of days, explaining that they didnt 
want to detriment Mr B's future. They apologised and offered him £50 compensation.
Mr B explained his main account had been closed while he was on a train, hed been unable 
to get his side income while it was closed, and hed had to ask his parents for help. He said 
the marker could have potentially had serious impact on him and could have potentially 
affected his planned future career, and he wanted Starling to be punished. He asked for an 
apology and £250 compensation.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that Starlings existing offer of 
compensation was fair. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr B had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. 
Here, Starling received an official fraud report from another bank, which detailed how the 
sender had been defrauded. Mr B had passed the allegedly fraudulent funds on relatively 
quickly, sending them to another account of his, which meant they couldnt automatically be 
sent back to the alleged victim. And his Starling account had not had much genuine activity 
beforehand  essentially, Mr B had opened the account, made some small online payments, 
and then received and passed on funds that were officially reported as fraudulent.
Ideally, Starling should have contacted Mr B at the time and given him a chance to evidence 
he was entitled to the funds hed received. It looks like they removed the marker partly due 
to not contacting him at the time, and largely out of sympathy for his young age.
But even if Starling had contacted Mr B at the time, it doesnt look like he would have been 
able to evidence he was entitled to the funds. Our service asked him for such evidence back 
in 2019, shortly after the incident in question, and he didnt provide any. This is despite the 
fact that, for example: it had not been long since the payment; that Mr B arranged this online 
and so there wouldve been records of his contact with the buyer; that Mr B told us hed sold 
the buyer some cryptocurrency, the nature of which is such that he would have been able to 
show he sent the currency; and so on.
So Im not convinced that this marker should have necessarily been removed. There seems 
to be a significant chance that Mr B did indeed misuse his account. As such, theres an 
argument that Starling doesnt need to pay any compensation here at all.
But even if I accept that the marker was incorrect, I still think Starlings offer is fair.
Starling acted very quickly to review things, remove the marker, and respond to Mr Bs 
complaint. And while I understand that Mr B was caused some distress and inconvenience 
after his main account was closed, he was only left without an account for a relatively short 
time, and from what hes told us I wouldnt consider the financial impact to have been large.
I do understand that Mr B would like an apology from Starling. The problem is that if I were 
to tell Starling to apologise, their apology would seem forced rather than genuine  theyd be 
saying sorry because I told them to. Further, I can see that Starling have already apologised, 
and that clearly has not repaired their relationship with Mr B. So I dont think another apology 
is likely to help.
Instead, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they may have got 
wrong and the impact it had. When it comes to the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that 
were here to resolve complaints informally  and not to punish businesses or issue fines. 
And while I do appreciate that Mr B was worried about what could have happened, we only 
make awards for things which have actually happened. Taking everything into account, 
I agree with our adjudicator that Starlings offer of £50 compensation is fair in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that Starling Bank Limited have already made a fair 
offer to resolve this complaint. I dont make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman