DRN-2374250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement figure offered by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited for their car, after it was involved in an accident and deemed a total loss.
What happened
Unfortunately Mrs S was involved in a car accident in December 2019. The car was badly 
damaged and Admiral determined that it was a total loss, so it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S 
the market value of the car. Admiral calculated this to be £3,630 and so arranged to pay Mr 
S £3,130, as his policy came with a £500 excess.
Mr S complained to Admiral about the valuation of the car as he considered it was too low. 
He explained the car had a full service-history, so the car was in excellent technical condition 
inside and out. And he said hed had two extras added to the car (all-round manufacturer 
branded mouldings and an armrest). He also provided adverts hed found for similar cars, 
which were being sold for between £5,100 and £6,999  so he argued he should receive a 
settlement of least £5,500.
Admiral didnt change its position as it said that its valuation was based on industry guides 
and that the advertised price of cars didnt necessarily reflect their actual sale price or 
market value. Mr S disagreed so brought his complaint to our service. He also provided us 
with an advert for another car similar to his  for sale at £3,000  but pointed out this had no 
extras, had done 10,000 more miles than his car and the website suggested it was for sale 
at £885 below market average.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that shed searched three separate 
industry guides for the market price of Mr and Mrs Ss car. And that what theyd been offered 
was within the range given and above the average value, so she couldnt fairly ask Admiral 
to increase its offer.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision as he said there was no car available to buy for 
what they were offered. And he said while there may be a difference between what a car is 
advertised for and what its sold for, he wouldnt expect a price variation of more than 10- 
15%, whereas the variation between what hes seen advertised and Admirals offer is nearer 
40% less.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S doesnt agree that its fair to use prices from motor guides to determine the value of his 
car. But this is common practice in the motor industry and a generally accepted approach by 
our service. I appreciate Mr S is arguing that he cant get a like-for-like car with the amount 
offered, so I have considered this and the evidence hes provided. But my starting point is to 
review the guides to see whats considered by these to be the market value for his car.
Ive looked at three motor guides to get their valuations for Mr Ss car at the time of the 
accident. Using CAP the market value given was £3,350, Glasss gave a figure of £3,600 
and Cazana £3,798. So the average of these three valuations is £3,583  meaning Mr S has 
received a figure above this average and well within the range of valuations. On the basis of 
the motor guides, I do consider the offer made by Admiral is fair.
With that said, there can be reasons why the valuation given by the guides isnt appropriate 
for a particular car. But I havent seen anything to suggest thats the case here. I appreciate 
Mr S has said he looked after his car very well and had two extras added to it. But 
considering the range of valuations and what he was offered, I dont think this means 
Admiral needs to offer him more.
Mr S has however also provided car adverts to show that the market value of his car is much 
higher than what the motor guides have said. So Ive reviewed these car adverts.
Mr S has provided five adverts. Four for cars costing above Admirals offer and one for a car 
below it. Hes pointed out that the car advertised for £3,000 (car 1) is listed as being under 
market average by £885. And that as his car had a lower mileage and extras compared to 
this car, this shows it was undervalued. But first, I consider this means he is able to find a 
similar car for less than Admiral has offered. And second, based on his logic, the market 
average would be around £3,885 for this kind of car  so not over £5,000. Mr S has said he 
accepts that a discount of 10-15% may be obtained when purchasing a car, which would the 
mean he has technically received enough to purchase a similar car to what he had  at 
market value.
The advert for car 1 lists it as having driven over 60,000 more miles than the market 
average. Considering Mr Ss car had only done 10,000 miles less than car 1, it follows that, 
by the information in this advert, his car had driven over 50,000 miles more than the average 
car  which will of course impact its value. So while I accept his car had driven less miles 
than car 1, it was valued at £630 more than it, which doesnt seem unreasonable.
Mr S also says car 1 had no optional extras, unlike his car  although that part of the advert 
hasnt been included for me to verify. But in any event, not all optional extras do have a great 
impact on the value of the car  and the guides have valued Mr and Mrs Ss car at a greater 
value than car 1. So I cant say this changes my view that the offer made was fair.
I also say this because, excluding car 1, the other adverts Mr S has provided are for cars 
which had travelled between (roughly) 50,000 and 87,000 less miles than his car had. 
Considering he didnt agree car 1 was similar enough when it had only travelled 10,000 
miles more, this doesnt suggest any of these cars are comparable to his either. Three out of 
four of the other cars are from the same website. These three list multiple, technical extras 
that Mr and Mrs Ss car didnt have. And two of these are also listed as being sold above 
market average. So overall I cant say the adverts do suggest Admiral has offered an 
unreasonable settlement.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss concerns with the amount they were offered, as they havent 
been able to find a car they believe matches their own, for the price Admiral has offered. And 
I understand this situation is more frustrating considering the accident wasnt Mrs Ss fault. 
However I cant say that the offer Admiral made them is unreasonable, so Im not directing it 
to pay them anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman