DRN-3851214
The complaint
Mrs K complains that UIA has made an unreasonable offer of settlement for her claims. She 
wants UIA to increase its offer.
What happened
Mrs K previously held her buildings and contents insurance with UIA.
In May 2018, Mrs K experienced an ingress of water into her living room. This appeared 
after a storm and appeared to have come from over-flowing guttering and blocked drainage.
She submitted a claim to UIA for the damage. UIA initially declined her claim, but then 
changed its decision as it became clear that an object had become lodged in the drain 
during a storm, causing it to overflow.
UIA carried out some remedial work, including removal of asbestos-containing material and 
stripping back of the brick walls, to allow drying.
In October 2018, Mrs Ks home then experienced a leak into the bedroom. This originated in 
a neighbours property and caused damage to Mrs Ks home and contents.
She claimed to UIA. Work was undertaken to dry out the walls, and asbestos was removed.
A cash settlement was offered to reflect Mrs Ks damaged carpets and possessions.
Mrs K was concerned that she did not want to have repairs being carried out on two areas of 
her home at once, so work on the living room claim was paused until she was able to move 
back into her bedroom.
Progress was then delayed due to a number of issues, including family health concerns and 
the pandemic. There is no suggestion that either party unreasonably delayed matters.
Mrs K considers the bedroom claim to have been resolved, but she is concerned that the 
living room claim is not. She has since changed insurer and is now insured by another 
business.
In 2021, an agent of UIA attended Mrs Ks property and checked the moisture levels in the 
living room walls. These were high and suggested to the assessor that there was another 
cause from the water ingress, beyond the storm claim which UIA was responsible for.
UIA considered it was unable to complete repairs on the living room until the underlying 
cause of the continued moisture ingress was resolved.
As UIA was no longer responsible for any new losses, it offered to cash settle the 
outstanding work.
UIA describes that it considers that the outstanding work for both claims would have cost 
UIA £741 (for the living room leak) and £1229 (for the bedroom leak) respectively.
UIA increased these values by 50% to reflect the changes in the price of building materials 
and work since the time of the claim and offered Mrs K a total of £2955.89 excluding VAT.
Mrs K has refused that settlement offer as she considers it too low for her to engage 
contractors directly to carry out the required works.
Mrs K complained to UIA.
UIA responded, refusing to increase its offer of settlement. It explained that because of the 
mixture of works now needed (being a mixture of works that UIA was responsible for and 
works that were not covered) then it was not practical for its agents to complete the work.
Mrs K was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
She felt that the change in costs due to delays was not the businesss fault and the business 
had acted reasonably in offering to settle the claim based on the works connected with the 
2018 leaks.
Mrs K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this matter in November 2022. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I thought UIA had not acted unreasonably, but that the works 
remaining and what was being cash settled for was not sufficiently clear. I therefore set out a 
proposed way forward for the parties. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
UIA has indicated that it accepts my provisional decision, but that Mrs K has at times not 
responded to contact from UIA. It stresses that it requires Mrs Ks co-operation in order to 
bring this matter to an end. 
Mrs K has not responded to the provisional decision, or to the investigators attempt at 
contact. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out that I thought it appropriate for UIA to cash settle the 
remaining work as it was no longer practicable for it to carry out the works. I set out that in 
my view the process for the claims to be concluded should be:
UIA should send an assessor to Mrs Ks property, to prepare an updated schedule of 
works relating to both of the two claims. This schedule should detail all outstanding 
works that relate to the leaks and would have been required to bring the property 
back to its pre-leak condition. This does not need to include work which wholly 
relates to other causes, such as drying from ongoing water ingress.UIA should then prepare a revised settlement offer, based on that schedule of works, 
and provide the offer to Mrs K, along with the schedule of works, within 30 days of its 
assessors visit to her home.
Once Mrs K has that schedule, and offer, she should obtain quotes from three 
contractors for the work detailed on that schedule and return these quotes to UIA 
(within 45 days of receiving the schedule). These quotes should be provided on 
letterheaded paper or otherwise giving the contact details of the contractor so that 
they can be checked.
UIA should then revise its offer to meet the lowest of the quotes and pay that sum to 
Mrs K within 30 days of receiving the quotes.
If Mrs K remains unhappy with the settlement offer, she can then ask our service to 
consider whether it is reasonable, as a new complaint.
I remain of the view that this is an appropriate way forward, and no substantive arguments 
have been made against the above proposal. 
It is clear, however, that the above will only work if Mrs K participates, and both allows the 
surveyor access to her home, and also seeks quotes within the timescales. I urge her to do 
so. 
In order to provide some certainty to UIA, if Mrs K does not allow access to the surveyor, in 
response to reasonable requests, then it should set out to Mrs K in writing its previous offer 
of cash settlement as alternative to further assessment. 
If Mrs K allows the survey to proceed, but then does not obtain the required quotes, UIA may 
base its offer of settlement on the sum it would cost UIA to have carried out the works, 
uplifted by 50% to reflect that Mrs K does not have access to panel contractors or discounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct that:
UIA send an assessor to Mrs Ks property, to prepare an updated schedule of works 
relating to both of the claims within 60 days of this decision becoming binding. The 
schedule should detail all outstanding works that relate to the original leaks and 
would have been required to bring the property back to its pre-leak condition. 
UIA must then prepare a revised settlement offer, based on that schedule of works, 
and provide the offer to Mrs K, along with the schedule of works, within 30 days of its 
assessors visit to her home.
Once Mrs K has that schedule and offer, she should either accept the offer or obtain 
quotes from three contractors for the work detailed on that schedule and return these 
quotes to UIA (within 45 days of receiving the schedule). These quotes should be 
provided on letterheaded paper or otherwise giving the contact details of the 
contractor so that they can be checked.
UIA then must revise its offer to meet the lowest of the quotes and pay that sum to 
Mrs K within 30 days of receiving the quotes.If Mrs K remains unhappy with the settlement offer, she can then ask our service to 
consider whether it is reasonable, as a new complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman