DRN-3792071
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from TenetLime Limited when selling him a life 
insurance policy and combined life and critical illness insurance policy (the policies). 
What happened
Mr K applied for the policies in or around April 2021 through TenetLime. TenetLimes 
representatives asked him a number of questions about his circumstances and medical 
history, and searched the market for critical illness and life cover. 
Due to Mr Ks medical history, some insurers wouldnt offer him cover. However, based on 
Mr Ks answers to certain questions about his health and medical history, TenetLime was 
able to find an insurer (who Ill refer to as L) willing to cover him in principle. 
Mr K was told that L would need to consider his GP records before confirming cover and Mr 
K provided his consent for those records to be obtained. 
As it transpired, L didnt request copies of all Mr Ks medical records. It only asked for a GP 
report connected with stomach surgery Mr K underwent many years before  which hed 
disclosed when applying for the policy. 
L ultimately agreed to offer Mr K the policies. He agreed to take out life insurance starting in 
September 2021. And he added the other policy a month later. 
In the summer of 2022, L became aware that Mr K had COPD and when questioned about 
this, he said hed declared this condition when applying for the policies. However, L said it 
hadnt been made aware of this condition. Because of this both policies ended up being 
cancelled and Mr K received a refund of the premiums paid for the policies.
Mr K is unhappy because he says that TenetLime wrongly recorded his answers to certain 
questions when applying for the policies. He says he mentioned COPD many times during 
the application process. Hes also unhappy that he was assured by TenetLime that L had 
obtained his full GP records and had agreed to offer him the policies in light of these. So, 
hed have no worries about the policies paying out in future if claims were made on them.
TenetLime says Mr K didnt mention COPD when asked certain questions about his health 
and medical history. So, it doesnt agree that his answers were recorded incorrectly when 
applying for the policies with L. It accepts that Mr K shouldnt have been told that L had 
considered Mr Ks full GP records and that there would be no issues regarding cover in the 
future as a result. It offered him £100 in recognition of this.
Mr K still didnt think TenetLime acted fairly so raised his concerns with our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint.  Mr K disagreed so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TenetLime has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Ive listened to recordings of calls Mr K had with TenetLimes representatives. 
In April 2021, after its representative mentions L as a possible insurer, Mr K was asked a 
number of questions about his medical history including:
in the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, requested treatment 
or had time off work, have you had: asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnoea or anything 
affecting your lungs or breathing? 
Including: 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
Emphysema
Mr K doesnt mention COPD in response to this question. He only gives details about 
pneumonia  including the circumstances around the two occasions he was diagnosed with 
pneumonia and that hed fully recovered. Thats also consistent with the way he answered 
similar questions posed by other insurers when TenetLimes representatives had attempted 
to secure cover with them.
So, Im satisfied that TenetLime accurately recorded Mr Ks answers to this question. And it 
acted fairly and reasonably when doing so.
Ive also listened to a phone call which took place with Mr K and one of TenetLimes 
representatives in September 2021, after the life insurance policy had started. Mr Ks told 
that L had seen his full medical records. He asks whether hed definitely be covered if there 
was any cause to make a claim as he didnt want any hassle in the future. Hes told that L 
was happy with what it had seen in the medical records and as long as hed answered all the 
questions correctly (when applying for the policy), there shouldnt be any issues. 
However, L hadnt considered all of Mr Ks GP history. It had requested a targeted report 
from his GP about the stomach surgery hed underwent many years before  on the advice 
of its underwriter. So what Mr K was told by TenetLime wasnt right and it accepts that. I also 
note that Mr K was told on a number of occasions, during other calls, that L would be 
accessing his full records and this was positioned as a positive thing because if L offered 
cover, it would be doing so having considered Mr Ks full medical history. 
TenetLime has offered Mr K £100 compensation to recognise the incorrect information 
provided, particularly given that the policies were cancelled within a year of starting. 
By the time the policy was cancelled, an insured event hadnt occurred so there was no need 
for a claim to have been made on either policy. And Mr K received premium refunds. So, he 
hasnt lost out financially because of the assurances he was given by TenetLime. 
I can understand why Mr K remains concerned that any claim is likely to have been declined 
under the policies had they not been cancelled when they were, once L had been made 
aware of his COPD. But that didnt happen. 
However, I accept that he was upset to find out that L hadnt obtained his full GP history as 
hed been told by TenetLime and that the assurances given by TenetLime around this proved to be inaccurate. But I think the offer of £100 fairly compensates him for the distress 
and inconvenience he experienced as a result of the incorrect information here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman