DRN-3448116
The complaint
Mr S complains because American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt paid a 
claim under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought flights and a single trip travel insurance policy on 24 March 2021. The travel 
insurance policy was purchased through an online travel agency, and the policy is provided 
by AIG. 
Mr S intended to travel to a friends funeral abroad, transiting via the USA. However, he was 
denied boarding by his airline at a UK airport as he didnt have a visa waiver. Mr S said the 
travel agent hadnt told him he needed this document. Mr S said his airline subsequently told 
him it wouldnt have mattered whether he had the visa waiver or not, as the USA wasnt 
permitting UK citizens to enter or transit through the country because of Covid-19. 
Mr S made a claim under his policy with AIG for his unused expenses, but AIG said the 
claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think AIG had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ss claim. Mr S didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIG, the online travel agent and Mr Ss airline are separate businesses. AIG isnt responsible 
for any of the information displayed on the online travel agents website about overseas 
travel requirements. Neither is AIG responsible for any information given by the online travel 
agents staff about overseas travel requirements, nor for the airlines actions in denying Mr S 
boarding. If Mr S has a complaint about the online travel agent or the airline, hed need to 
pursue these matters with those individual businesses directly. 
My powers in considering this complaint are limited to deciding whether I think AIG, as the 
provider of Mr Ss travel insurance policy, handled his claim fairly and/or whether I think AIG 
unreasonably rejected his claim. 
Insurance policies dont cover every situation and AIGs obligations to Mr S are set out in the 
terms, conditions and exclusions of its travel insurance contract with him. 
The cancellation section of Mr Ss insurance policy says that AIG will pay for certain non-
refundable costs if a trip is cancelled for one of a list of specific, insured reasons. An airline 
denying a policyholder boarding isnt a reason which is insured under Mr Ss policy. 
Furthermore, in common with many travel insurance policies on the market, the cancellation 
section of Mr Ss policy specifically excludes claims where the policyholder is unable to 
travel because they dont have the required documents which they need for a trip. 
Even if I were to accept Mr Ss arguments that it didnt matter whether or not he had a visa 
waiver as hed never have been able to travel anyway, his policy excludes claims arising 
from travel restrictions relating to Covid-19. When Mr S booked his trip and bought his 
insurance policy, the USA wasnt allowing British nationals to enter the USA from the UK 
(amongst other countries) due to the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic. So, 
Mr Ss claim wouldnt be covered by his policy anyway. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, especially considering the reason for his intended trip, but his 
claim isnt covered under his policy with AIG and I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask AIG to accept his claim. 
So, I wont be directing AIG to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman