The complaint
Miss F says Santander UK Plc (through Abbey National plc) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as Santander in the rest of this 
decision. 
Background
Miss F took out a mortgage and PPI through Santander in 2009. The PPI policy covered her 
for accident, sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly premium of £25.27 per month 
for PPI for around £326 per month of cover. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months 
per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F didnt accept our adjudicators view, she 
said she wasnt made aware that PPI was optional and it was expensive. She said she 
probably wouldnt have taken it if given the option. She also complained about not being 
given details of how to cancel the policy.
Miss F said she made a claim when she was made redundant and Santander didnt pay out 
on it. Im just dealing with Miss Fs mis-sale complaint here. I'll leave Miss F to pursue her 
complaint about Santander not paying out on her claim separately, if she wants to. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. But, looking at the 
paperwork from the time, I can see from her mortgage offer that PPI wasnt a condition of the 
mortgage. I can also see that  separate paperwork was completed recording that Miss F 
wanted to take out PPI and noting down her circumstances at the time. So, looking at the 
paperwork, I think it likely that PPI was discussed separately from her mortgage application 
and Miss F opted to take PPI and thats why it was added. I can understand why after so 
much time Miss F may not remember it that way now.
Santander says it didnt recommend the policy to Miss F. Miss F believed PPI had been 
recommended at the meeting with the bank. I cant know what was discussed, so to be fair 
to Miss F I have proceeded on the basis that she was advised to take out PPI. Ive done this 
because its not clear from the paperwork which sales process Santander was following 
when it sold the PPI to Miss F. I say this because I can see the PPI document completed at 
DRN-1681499the time of sale was not signed by Miss F and the adviser. But, I can also see that she was 
shortly after that sent a letter confirming that she had opted to take PPI. As Im treating this 
as a recommended sale, what that means is that Santander had to consider whether the 
policy was suitable for Miss Fs circumstances. Whether it was recommended or not, it also 
had  to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so that she 
could make an informed choice about whether it was right for her and she wanted to buy it. If 
there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I think Miss F has lost out 
because of that.
I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for Miss F. Ill explain why.
Miss F appeared eligible to take out PPI given her circumstances. Miss F was 
working at the time of sale and said she would've been eligible to get around three 
months worth of sick pay through work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Miss 
Fs work related benefits and for up to 12 months per successful claim.  Miss F didnt 
mention having any savings, but said her dad wouldve helped with her repayments. I 
accept he may have wanted to help, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed 
when the time comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. The policy wouldve 
also  covered her if she lost her job unexpectedly. So I think PPI couldve provided 
her with a valuable benefit in her circumstances to protect her home. 
Miss F had a pre-existing medical condition which shed suffered from since 
childhood. However, she said this was maintained and it didnt have an impact on her 
day to day living. So, whilst this condition wouldnt have been covered under the 
policy, given the nature of it and the impact on her life, I dont think this wouldve put 
her off taking out the policy. She wouldve been covered for other health conditions 
and I don't think she would've thought shed have to take a prolonged period off work 
because of her existing condition. So I dont think having better information about the 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to her decision to take 
out PPI. 
The premium was paid monthly so she couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially. Miss F said she wasnt told how to cancel the policy, but I can 
see that this information was included with the welcome letter sent when she took out 
the policy.  She didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. I cant see that the 
policy was unaffordable.
I think Miss F wouldve understood that she had to pay a separate amount for the 
cover. This was set out in the paperwork from the time of sale. 
 
Its possible the bank couldve given Miss F clearer information, particularly about the costs 
and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think she wouldve likely still taken out the 
policy because of the protection it afforded her and it appeared suitable for her needs and 
affordable.
 
 
 
 
 
 my final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman