DRN-4326293
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltds (Fortegra) handling of a 
warranty claim. 
What happened
In July 2021, Miss C purchased a new sofa and took out a warranty. She made a claim 
under the warranty as some of the paint had begun to come away from the leather. An 
engineer carried out a repair. But Miss C said the damage happened again and she notified 
Fortegra in January 2023.
Miss C says she had to wait several months for an update on her claim. And then she was 
told the part couldnt be sourced and a replacement sofa couldnt be offered. As a result, she 
was offered a reselection mandate to purchase a sofa from the same retailer. Miss C was 
unhappy with this, saying the policy terms stated she might be entitled to a cash settlement, 
but didnt reference a reselection mandate. Unhappy with Fortegras reluctance to issue a 
cash settlement, Miss C complained.  
Fortegra responded to Miss Cs complaint and said resolving a claim by way of a cash 
settlement was based on its discretion, not something it was required to do. It was satisfied 
offering a mandate for a replacement sofa was appropriate in the circumstances. But 
Fortegra acknowledged there had been delays in updating Miss C with the progress of her 
claim. They offered her £50 compensation in recognition of this. 
Miss C remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator said the offer of 
reselection was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Miss C didnt agree so the matter 
was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision in July 2023. Ive copied my findings 
below: 
The case notes show in January 2023 the amount Miss C was entitled to under the
indemnity was £1,899, but a deduction of £135.50 was made for the previous repair. On
11 March, Miss C was sent a reselection mandate for a total of £1,763.50 plus £99 for
delivery. This amount was calculated by deducting the cost of the initial repair from the
indemnity limit.
However, the claim notes stated the deduction for the initial repair shouldnt be made,
because it was noted to have failed. The case notes also show this was decided on
13 March, two days after the reselection mandate was sent to Miss C. We asked Fortegra to
explain why the deduction had been made and confirm if it had resent the revised mandate
the claim notes show Miss C should have received. We didnt receive a reply to this enquiry.
We also asked Fortegra to explain why it was offering a reselection mandate when the terms
and conditions say:
SECTION 3  WHAT IS COVERED
3. If a repair cannot be achieved, we may replace the damaged part. If this is not
possible, Guardsman may provide a replacement product(s), or settle the claim by a
cash payment at Guardsman and your Insurers discretion instead of repair or
replacement (up to the limit of indemnity) 
The policy terms dont reference settling claims by reselection mandate. I havent received a
response from Fortegra to clarify why it chose to offer Miss C a reselection mandate rather
than a cash settlement, or whether it sent a mandate for the correct amount. So, Ive
reached a conclusion I consider fair and reasonable based on the information available.
To put things right, Im intending to require Fortegra to make a cash settlement in the
absence of any explanation as to why it seemed to be departing from the policy terms. And,
given that it identified Miss C should receive this amount back on 13 March, it should add 
simple interest at 8% from 13 March 2023 until the date of settlement.
Fortegra offered Miss C £50 compensation. However, Im inclined to say this amount isnt
sufficient here. Fortegra identified Miss C has not only experienced delays of several weeks
before understanding how her claim might be settled. I cant see she received an answer to
her question about why she was being offered a mandate for the reduced amount. But there
has been further inconvenience caused by the mandate containing the wrong amount, but I
cant see this has been put right. With this in mind, Im inclined to increase the compensation
to £150 to reflect the worry, distress and frustration caused.
Miss C accepted by provisional decision. She said that part of the reason she didnt consider 
the mandate was fair was because purchasing an equivalent sofa for this amount wasnt 
possible, but had one been offered, she would have accepted a replacement.
Fortegra responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In response, they said:
- They pay full price for any items purchased, which is why they dont offer cash 
settlements and offer reselection mandates instead. 
- Whilst the cash offer is in the terms, it is stated its at their discretion.
- The case notes state they provided Miss C with the full amount paid for the damaged 
items (without the failed repair costs deducted).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
The policy terms state a claim can be resolved by a cash payment at the insurers discretion. 
And I think it would be helpful for me to set out why I consider making a cash payment over 
a reselection mandate is a fair and reasonable outcome for the circumstances of this case. 
Ive reviewed the sofa Miss C purchased. The same sofa is no longer available, and Miss C 
says to buy a comparable replacement from the same retailer would be around £800 more. 
Ive reviewed the website of the retailer Miss C purchased her sofa from and when looking 
for a two corner, two power double recliner, the cost of the only other available sofa with this 
specification costs considerably more than Miss C paid for her sofa.
Miss C said her financial circumstances are such that she cannot afford to continue paying 
off the existing finance agreement whilst finding such a large amount to buy a replacement 
sofa. If Miss C could buy a similar sofa for broadly the same amount as the reselection 
mandate, I might be inclined to say this was an acceptable resolution. But given Miss C 
cannot readily buy a comparable replacement from the same retailer, I consider a cash settlement a fair and reasonable outcome. To put things right, I require Fortegra to pay Miss 
C the full amount of the indemnity in cash. 
After my provisional decision, I asked both sides about the increased mandate that was the 
notes indicated was due to be sent to Miss C. Theres no dispute the original mandate sent 
was for a lower amount than Miss C was entitled to  it included a deduction for a failed 
repair. Miss C says she only received the revised mandate in the last couple of weeks. 
Fortegra say this was sent to her in June.
Even if I was to accept the revised mandate was sent to Miss C in June, this was almost 
three months after Fortegra identified the initial mandate was for the wrong amount. This 
means it couldnt have been used by Miss C even if she had identified a replacement sofa to 
purchase because it wasnt for the amount she was owed. So, I think its fair Fortegra take 
steps to compensate Miss C for the fact shes been unable to take any action to arrange a 
replacement sofa since 13 March 2023 as a result of its failure to provide her with the full 
amount she was entitled to at the time the claim should have been settled. Fortegra should 
pay simple interest at 8% from 13 March 2023 (when it identified the increased mandate 
should have been sent) until the date of settlement.
I remain of the view a compensation payment should be paid to reflect the inconvenience 
and frustration experienced by Miss C as a result of Fortegras handling of a claim. It 
delayed providing her with an answer initially to the claim and then didnt put things right 
properly for Miss C. Fortegra should pay £150 compensation in respect of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Fortegra Europe 
Insurance Company Ltd to:
- Pay Miss C a cash settlement of £1,899.
- Pay simple interest at 8% from 13 March 2023 until the date of settlement.
- Pay Miss C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman