DRN-3693180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs B are represented by a 
firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
P has explained that, at the end of 2007, Mr and Mrs B were sold a trial membership of a 
holiday club. They took a loan from a different lender (not BPF) to finance that membership.
In July 2008 Mr and Mrs B upgraded their membership package, this time with the help of a 
loan from BPF. The available documents indicate that they bought membership of Club La 
Costa Vacation Club Limited from Club La Costa (UK) Plc and that the loan was provided to 
Mr B.
On 15 April 2009 Mr and Mrs B upgraded their membership again. Again, Mr B took out a 
loan with BPF to pay for the purchase. He was to pay a little over £280 a month for 15 years.
The loan agreement recorded that the retailer was Leading Resorts Limited, a company 
registered in the British Virgin Islands.
Following a subject access request made in or about August 2019, Mr B complained to BPF 
in April 2020. His letter said that neither Leading Resorts Limited nor Club La Costa (UK) Plc 
were authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 2009 to arrange loans and that 
this might affect BPFs ability to recover money under the 2009 loan agreement.
BPF replied to say that it thought that any claims made against the seller of the club 
membership would be out of time and that accordingly it had no liability under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It did not however answer the complaint that Mr B had 
actually made.
P then referred the matter to this service. In doing so, it expanded the complaint beyond the 
authorisation issue that Mr B had raised and the section 75 issue that BPF had answered. In 
summary, P said in that letter and in the course of our investigation of the complaint:
The seller of the holiday club membership had not possessed the necessary 
authorisation to arrange the 2009 loan.
Mr and Mrs B had been subjected to pressurised sales techniques before they agreed 
to buy the club membership.
They had been misled about the quality and availability of resorts and had been told 
incorrectly that membership could be sold at a profit.
The affordability and suitability of the loan had not been properly assessed in line with 
the requirements of CONC  the part of the FCAs Handbook which deals with 
consumer credit.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section  140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act.
The contract for the holiday club membership was unlawful under Spanish law.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She said, in summary:
Consumer credit brokers were not required to have FCA authorisation at the time the 
loan was agreed.
Any claim for misrepresentation was likely to be out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980.
BPF had not been given an opportunity to respond to the other aspects of the 
complaint, so she did not think this service should address them until it had had the 
chance to do so.
Our investigator shared her assessment with both BPF and with P.
P did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It
said that the relevant time limits should be extended because the timeshare company was
guilty of fraud and because Mr B was not aware until some time later that the
representations made at the time of sale were false.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The scope of my decision
Before I discuss the various elements of the complaint in more detail, there are two 
administrative issues I need to address.
First, the April 2009 loan was in Mr Bs sole name, so only he has a debtor-creditor 
relationship with BPF. It follows that only he can bring this complaint to this service. P has 
made clear that the complaint here is about the 2009 loan, so I will restrict my findings to 
that.
Second, the complaint which was initially made to BPF was a very narrow one, concerning 
the authorisation of the arranger of the loan. BPF however answered a different complaint 
(about a possible claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act).
As the investigator identified, we cannot generally investigate a complaint unless the 
financial business has had an opportunity to consider it first. For that reason, she declined to 
comment on issues raised during the course of her consideration of the case. However, BPF 
has now had the opportunity of addressing those matters, so I have concluded that I can 
address them here. Because I am doing so in a provisional decision, both parties can 
comment on my preliminary findings before I issue a determination of the complaint.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
P says that BPF has not shown anything to prove that it assessed the affordability or 
suitability of the loan. Given the time that has passed since it was taken out, I do not find that 
particularly surprising. P has not however provided anything to show that the loan was not 
affordable.
I note however that P has referred to the rules and guidance in CONC. Since the loan pre- 
dates the FCAs regulation of consumer credit activities, however, CONC did not apply at the time. I would nevertheless expect lenders to have assessed the affordability of loans in line 
with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending 
Standards Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.
Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it 
is referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of 
the date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had 
cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in April 2009. Mr B would have known fairly soon after that date if he was 
having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint should have 
been referred to this service by no later than 15 April 2015  six years from the date Mr B 
took it out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Authorisation to arrange the loan
It appears that the holiday club membership was sold by Club La Costa (UK) Plc. The loan 
agreement however named Leading Resorts Limited as the retailer. I have therefore looked 
at the position of both companies.
Ps observations about authorisation appear to misunderstand the regulatory requirements 
at the time. When the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA 
authorisation; it did however require a licence issued by the OFT. In addition, from 6 April 
2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT 
licensees, under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction.
Our own records indicate that Club La Costa (UK) Limited was covered under the consumer 
credit jurisdiction from 6 April 2007 until 31 March 2014 and thereafter under our compulsory 
jurisdiction.
Leading Resorts Limited was covered under this services consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 
April 2007 until 12 August 2010.
Neither business would have been recorded as a business coming under this services 
consumer credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. I am 
satisfied therefore that both were properly authorised as consumer credit brokers when the 
loan was arranged in April 2009.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Mr and 
Mrs Bs contract appears however to have been with Club La Costa (UK) Plc, but  as I have 
indicated above  the retailer named in the loan agreement was Leading Resorts Limited. Mr B does not have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against that company, 
because he has no contract with it. And it is not alleged that it made statements in 
connection with the membership contract or the loan, since any such statements were made 
by Club La Costa (UK) Limited or the club itself.
For broadly the same reasons, it does not appear that the membership contract was 
financed under pre-existing arrangements between BPF and Club La Costa (UK) Limited. 
Any such arrangements appear to have been with Leading Resorts Limited.
However, section 75 can apply where the loan is made under pre-existing arrangements 
between the creditor and an associate of the supplier, as defined by section 184 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Whether one company is an associate of another depends on who 
owns or controls them. There is generally very little information publicly available about the 
ownership of companies registered in the British Virgin Islands  such as Leading Resorts 
Limited. I am not therefore in a position to say whether the two companies were owned or 
controlled by the same person or persons, but it is clear there was some link between the 
two.
I have nevertheless considered what the position might be if Club La Costa (UK) Limited and 
Leading Resorts Limited were associates at the relevant time.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs B into the 
contract for the April 2009 upgrade of their holiday club membership were made on or before 
15 April 2009; since they were already members, its possible that Mr and Mrs B relied on 
what they were told or their own experiences even before that. They did not however raise 
any complaint with BPF until April 2020, ten years later. I think it very likely therefore that a 
court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in 
the Limitation Act.
P says that the time limit is extended where there is fraud or concealment or where the 
claimant is unaware of the facts giving rise to a claim. It says that Mr B was not aware that 
the broker was unauthorised and did not know about the misrepresentations.
For the reasons I have set out, Ps assertion that Club La Costa (UK) Limited and/or Leading 
Resorts Limited were unauthorised is based on a misunderstanding of the regulatory 
requirements at the time. And the misrepresentations alleged  that Mr and Mrs B were 
misled about the availability and quality of accommodation  are matters they would
have known about many years before they complained. Indeed, P has said  on the many 
occasions our clients attempted to book holidays, they were often told that they could not do 
so
Be that as it may, I do not accept that the time limits in the Limitation Act are generally 
extended in the way P says. Knowledge is generally only relevant in negligence cases where 
damage does not become apparent until later  for example, where building work is 
defective.I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. As far as I am aware, the loan agreement 
has not been repaid, but the parties can tell me in their response if it has.
On the basis of what I have seen so far, however, there are no grounds on which I think I 
could properly conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case. The main reasons 
given by P for saying there was an unfair relationship are the interest rate and a suggestion 
that the holiday club membership is unlawful under Spanish law, as well as the authority 
issue which I have already dealt with.
The interest rate of 17.5% was clearly set out in the loan agreement and is not out of line 
with many other similar loans. I do not believe I can fairly say that the interest rate  in effect 
the price Mr B paid for the borrowing  means the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship.
P has referred to a judgment of a Spanish court concerning companies in the Club La Costa 
group. P has not however explained why it thinks Spanish law might apply here. I do not 
believe that it does, for the following reasons:
The contract for the purchase of the holiday club membership was between Mr and Mrs 
B, who are resident in the UK, and a company registered in England.
It was written in English.
It included a reference to the Timeshare Act 1992, a UK statute.
Prices were in sterling.
The contract did not concern any immovable property, whether in Spain or anywhere 
else.
The only connection with Spain appears to be that the contract was signed there. In the 
circumstances, the findings of a Spanish court applying Spanish law do not appear to me to 
be directly relevant here.
I indicated that, for the reasons I had set out, I was not minded to uphold the complaint. 
P responded to my provisional decision on behalf of Mr B and made further submissions, 
which I shall discuss below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.P clarified that the loan with BPF is still running and submitted therefore that the obligation to 
ensure that a loan or other credit facility is affordable is an obligation to ensure that it 
remains affordable over its term. 
I accept that a lender should take steps to ensure that loan repayments are not only 
affordable at the point the loan is taken out, but also that they will remain affordable. That 
means taking into account, for example, any expected reduction in income (through 
retirement, for instance). But the obligation to make those checks is one that arises at the 
point of sale; a lender does not have to make ongoing checks to ensure that a loan remains 
affordable. It follows that this part of Mr Bs complaint is about what happened in April 2009 
and was therefore brought out of time under our own rules. 
P said that it is relevant to consider  under the Limitation Act  the point at which Mr B 
became aware that he had a claim for misrepresentation. As I indicated in my provisional 
decision, I do not believe that is the case here. Knowledge can be relevant in cases of 
negligence where damage does not become apparent until later. I gave as an example a 
case of defective building work; another might be in medical negligence cases, where the 
consequences of any negligence may not be apparent until many years after the negligent 
act. 
In this case, however, Mr and Mrs B said in their own evidence that they found out relatively 
quickly that their membership was not what they had been expecting. The availability of 
resorts and quality of accommodation were not matters which could be concealed from 
them. So, even if thought knowledge were a relevant factor, I believe that Mr B knew, or 
ought to have known, that he had a claim some years before he sought to bring one. 
P noted my comments about BPFs initial handling of the complaint, where I had observed 
that it did not address the complaint about authorisation of the credit broker, but instead 
answered a section 75 complaint that had not been made. I do not believe however that I 
need say anything more about that. Complaint-handling is not, of itself, a matter about which 
this service can consider complaints; and I note in any event that Mr B did in fact expand his 
complaint to include BPFs response to a section 75 claim. 
P also commented on my observations about the relationship between Club La Costa and 
Leisure Resorts. It was not, it said, transparent. That may be so, but BPF is not responsible 
for the corporate structure or payment arrangements of those companies. They might of 
course have an impact on its liability under sections 56 and/or 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, but I considered what the position would be if the arrangements were such that they 
could apply. 
In reaching my final decision, I have reviewed Mr Bs complaint in its entirety  not simply the 
points made in response to my provisional decision. I have however reached the same 
overall conclusions, namely:
The complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time limits and 
I have no power to consider it.
I am satisfied that Club La Costa (UK) Limited and Leading Resorts Limited held the 
necessary consumer credit licences at the time the loan was made.
It is possible that neither section 56 nor section 75 applies here, but even if they do, 
BPF acted reasonably in concluding that claims were likely to be out of time under the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.
I do not believe there are any grounds on which I can properly say that the loan created 
an unfair relationship between Mr B and BPF.My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I dont 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do anything further to resolve it.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman