DRN-3106168
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (BoS) didnt do enough to 
protect him from financial loss from fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a payment for around £2,900 on his BoS Mastercard credit card in April 2019. At 
the time Mr C believed he was making a cryptocurrency investment through a broker (T) 
hed first discovered on social media. He says this turned out to be a scam and Mr Cs loss 
extends well beyond the payment made using his BoS card, but this complaint is solely 
about this one payment. 
Mr C has referenced several codes of practice and parts of industry guidance to suggest 
why he thinks BoS ought to have done more. Ive considered all of these, but Ill be keeping 
my findings to what I think is relevant to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Sometimes there can be spending on a card which might be indicative of either the card 
being compromised, or of the accountholder being in the process of being a victim of fraud. 
Whilst this payment was for a relatively large amount, it was within the available credit limit. 
Overall, I dont think there was any plausible reason why BoS ought to have stopped the 
single payment that Mr C made on his credit card at the relevant time. 
Once Mr C reported to BoS that his payment was made as the result of fraud, I can see that 
they considered a chargeback. But in these circumstances, BoS are bound by the 
requirements of the scheme operators (Mastercard in this case) rules. The rules of the 
scheme are clear that Mastercard dont support chargeback rights where funds have been 
correctly credited to an account. The only potential route for success would be if the credits 
werent loaded onto the account. But the nature of Mr Cs claim is that this is a scam, which 
isnt something the scheme provides resolution for. In these circumstances, given the 
relatively narrow scope for a successful chargeback under the Mastercard scheme, I think 
BoS decision to not raise a chargeback was fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator also considered whether BoS ought to have raised a claim under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an 
unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr C), creditor (BoS) and the supplier (In this case the 
merchant T). And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract 
and or a misrepresentation between Mr C and T in relation to a contract that was funded by 
the BoS credit card. 
Mr C has provided an invoice which purports to show C as the merchant that received his 
payment. But the amount on that invoice is different to what was charged to his account. Its 
likely the invoice he was provided with may not have been genuine.  Im more persuaded by 
the evidence of the merchant name as it appears on his credit card statement. This shows 
the payment going to a different business G. 
Ive not seen evidence that persuades me that there is a link between G and T. I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor creditor supplier chain was unbroken. 
As such, I cant fairly criticise BoS for not raising a claim under Section 75. 
Im sorry Mr C lost his money as the result of a scam. But Im not persuaded that there is a 
reasonable basis upon which I can tell BoS to reimburse his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman