DRN-3104074
The complaint
Miss B and Mr B, in their capacity as trustees of S, have complained that Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited allowed a former trustee, C, to withdraw a significant sum from a bond 
held in the trust. Miss B and Mr B say this withdrawal was fraudulent.
 
What happened
S was established in 1998 for the benefit of Miss B and Mr B. Of the funds held in the trust, 
£52,125 was invested in a Portfolio Bond with Aviva.
C replaced the original trustees in 2002. In December 2014, C withdrew £49,000 from the 
bond.
In 2018 Miss B, Mr B and their mother Mrs G, who was the settlor of the trust, found out 
about the withdrawal. They were able to get in touch with a director of C, who advised that 
the withdrawal had been made to cover trustee fees. However, Miss B, Mr B and Mrs G did 
not consider this amount to be reasonable and they asked Aviva why such a substantial 
withdrawal had been allowed.
In 2019 C was removed as trustee and replaced by Miss B and Mr B as the new trustees. 
They subsequently complained. The trustees thought Aviva had a duty of care towards the 
beneficiaries and should not have allowed the withdrawal without doing additional checks on 
C and informing the settlor and beneficiaries.
Aviva didnt agree that it had acted unreasonably by processing the withdrawal request. It 
said as sole trustee, C was entitled to deal with the trust assets as it saw fit. Aviva said it had 
carried out the required checks and had no reason to be concerned that the trustee was 
withdrawing the funds for its own benefit, as Miss B and Mr B had alleged.
The trustees referred their concerns to our service  ultimately the investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She thought that Aviva had handled the withdrawal fairly and in line with its 
processes.
The trustees asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. Miss B said Aviva should 
have informed Mrs G and the beneficiaries about the withdrawal. She also said that Aviva 
should have queried the withdrawal further given it was a substantial amount and not in line 
with historic withdrawals. Miss B added that she had reached the age of 25 at the time of the 
withdrawal, meaning she had become absolutely entitled to the trust funds as per the original 
deed. She said this meant that Aviva should have sought her consent before allowing the 
withdrawal to go ahead. 
The investigator didnt change her view so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as those 
given by the investigator.
Miss B and Mr B say that as beneficiaries, they should have been informed about the 
withdrawal of funds from the bond in 2014. They also say Mrs G, as settlor, shouldve been 
informed. However, by placing the bond in the trust, legal ownership of the bond was 
transferred to the trustee. The original trust deed, which was executed on 23 July 1998, sets 
out the powers conferred on the trustee(s). Originally this was a different business, but in 
2002, C replaced it as sole trustee.
Section 6 of the trust deed, entitled Administrative powers states that the trustees powers 
are exercisable at their absolute discretion. And that this includes the full and unrestricted 
power to invest and lay out trust monies and buying or selling property in all respects as if 
they were absolutely entitled beneficially. It also includes the power at any time to sell or 
convert or call in any investments or other property. The trust deed does not require the 
beneficiaries or settlor to be notified when the trustee exercises any power. So, Aviva wasnt 
obliged to inform the beneficiaries or the settlor of any withdrawal. I think it was entitled to 
act upon the instruction given by C to make a partial withdrawal from the bond. And it didnt 
need to know why the withdrawal was being made, as the trust deed permitted the trustee to 
make the withdrawal.
I also dont think the fact the withdrawal was significant (in proportion to the value of the 
bond) shouldve given Aviva any cause for concern, given the trustee was entitled to deal 
with the investment as it saw fit.
Miss B said she had turned 25 at the time the withdrawal was made, so she was entitled to 
the trust assets absolutely. But the original trust deed from 1998 shows Miss B was born in 
1990, which means she had not yet turned 25 when the withdrawal was made in 
December 2014. In any event, I have not seen any provisions within the deed that state the 
beneficiaries must consent to the trustees exercising their powers after the beneficiaries 
attain the age of 25. So, I dont think Aviva was required to obtain Miss Bs consent before 
allowing the withdrawal to take place.
Nevertheless, I would still expect Aviva to carry out the checks it would usually do when 
receiving a request of this nature. And I note that Miss B says that Aviva failed to carry out 
sufficient due diligence on C before allowing the withdrawal. She says that the address of 
Cs registered office had changed from Jersey to Nevis, and its correspondence address had 
changed to Mauritius. Miss B thinks that shouldve alerted it to a potential problem with the 
business.
In respect of the issue with the registered address, Aviva has provided evidence showing 
that it received a change of address notification from C in 2008. This came from Mr M  a 
Director of C who had signed the trust deed in 2002. It gave the registered office address in 
Nevis and asked that correspondence be sent to an address in Mauritius. Mr M also asked if 
Aviva held any reports that may have been returned from the Jersey office. Aviva updated 
the address as per the request and in July 2008 it spoke to Mr M about surrendering the 
bond. However, this didnt take place.The trustees have provided us with a copy of a Deed of Ratification, Indemnity and 
Appointment of Trustee dated 22 August 2006. The deed noted that C had transferred all of 
its existing business to C (the company was named the same), whose registered office was 
in Nevis. Mrs G signed this deed so she was aware of the change. It doesnt appear that 
Aviva was sent a copy of this deed  however, the change of address it was notified of in 
2008 is consistent with the changes made by the 2006 deed.
Aviva has also shown that when it received the withdrawal request in 2014, it carried out 
third party identity checks. It also requested an original copy of the bond documents and 
deed, as well as an authorised signatory list for C. Aviva received all of this information from 
C promptly. 
Ultimately, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by accepting the withdrawal instruction 
from C. It had been notified of Cs change of registered address and contact address in 
2008, having been contacted by a director of C who was party to the 2002 deed. So, there 
wasnt anything out of the ordinary with the request it received from C in 2014. I think it 
carried out appropriate checks to verify the signatures on the paperwork and it asked for 
original documents, that only the trustee wouldve had in its possession. Having received 
everything to its satisfaction, the withdrawal took place. And I think Aviva was entitled to 
assume that the trustee was exercising its fiduciary duty in accordance with the trust deed.
I know this leaves Miss B and Mr B in a difficult position, as they are unable to pursue C for 
the money they say was fraudulently taken from the bond. But I dont think it is fair or 
reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for this, as I think it followed its process correctly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman