DRN-4238361
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) provided her with a high-
cost short-term credit instalment loan. She says she doesnt think that her finances and 
personal situation were sufficiently checked to ensure that she could make her payments.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan
for £300, which Mr Lender provided to Miss M in April 2020. The loan was to be paid in four 
monthly instalments, with the amount of the highest instalment being around £150.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ms complaint and she didnt think that Mr Lender 
had done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Miss Ms case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
Mr Lender needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Mr Lender needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss M could afford to make the monthly repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr Lender provided Miss M with a single loan which was due to be repaid in four monthly
instalments. As I understand it, Mr Lender asked Miss M to confirm her monthly income and 
expenditure. And Mr Lender says that the information gathered suggested that the loan 
repayments were affordable.
Miss M says the information Mr Lender based its decision on didnt accurately reflect
her actual financial position. But I have to think about what Miss M has said in the context of
this being an application for first loan involving a relatively small amount. And, in these
circumstances, I dont think that it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to
have carried out the degree of verification Miss M has suggested. 
For a loan of this amount and with monthly repayments of this amount, I wouldnt have 
expected Mr Lender to do much more than simply ask Miss M about her income and 
expenditure. And I wouldnt have expected it to have asked Miss M to provide supporting 
evidence, such as bank statements, before providing a first loan for this amount. 
So, while Im sorry to hear that Miss M has had difficulty repaying this loan, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable or proportionate for Mr Lender to have requested the 
information that would have shown why Miss M might have had difficulties repaying this 
loan. And bearing in mind the circumstances here, I think that Mr Lender was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information it had been provided with and therefore its decision to lend 
wasnt unreasonable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Mr Lender treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman