DRN-3544806
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked his account without an 
explanation. They also gave poor customer service.  He would like considerable 
compensation.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Halifax. 
Following a review Halifax blocked Mr Hs account on 29 October 2020. Mr H was told he 
needed to go into branch in order to provide suitable ID so that his account could be 
reactivated. 
Mr H has told us he was very unhappy with this suggestion because he felt vulnerable and 
stressed at having to go into branch at the height of the pandemic. In addition, branch 
opening times had been reduced which meant he was unable to go to branch as he worked 
during branch opening hours.
Mr H made many phone calls to Halifax and has said he was provided with poor customer 
service and no alternative apart from visiting branch which he felt unhappy to do. 
Mr H complained to Halifax- they said they were entitled to review the account and ask for 
ID. They said they were not able to verify a customers identity over the phone. Halifax 
accepted that they had provided poor customer service and offered £30 compensation plus 
£48 for call costs.
Mr H complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Halifax were entitled to review and block his account under their legal and regulatory 
obligations.  He also said Halifax could close an account in line with their terms and 
conditions. He thought Halifaxs offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He said Halifax hadnt closed his account. He 
was unhappy that Halifax hadnt provided an alternative way to verify his identity. Once the 
account was unblocked Mr H wasnt able to find out what had prompted the review and 
block.  He thought £30 was an unacceptable amount for the months of struggle he had gone 
through.
Mr H has since closed his account with Halifax and hasnt accepted the compensation they 
offered him.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Halifax were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Halifax was unfair. 
Mr H wants an explanation why his account was blocked. Whilst Mr H may have expected to 
be given the reasons for the block, Halifax isnt required to give him a specific reason. So, 
I cant say Halifax has done anything wrong by not giving Mr H this information  as much as 
hed like to know.
Mr H was unhappy Halifax asked him to attend branch in order to carry out necessary 
identification to unblock his account.  He has told us he felt anxious and vulnerable at the 
idea of needing to go into branch. He also said branch opening times had been reduced and 
he worked during branch opening times making it logistically difficult to attend branch.
Mr H has said he had a long time when his account was blocked. He has told us he had 
numerous conversations with the customer services team about the block on the account.  
Halifax have offered to refund Mr H the costs of his phone calls in the sum of £48.
I can see that Halifax had fraud concerns which means they required Mr H to verify his 
identity. Halifax has said that despite Mr Hs reservations about attending branch to unblock 
his account, they were not able to verify his identity in any other way and required him to go 
into branch. 
In summary, I appreciate what Mr H has told us about difficulties with anxiety and I know 
Mr H would have preferred that Halifax offered him a way to have his ID checked without 
attending branch. However, Im satisfied that Halifax had legitimate concerns that required 
Mr H to attend branch, so I dont think they were unfair in asking Mr H to attend branch with 
ID. It follows I wont be awarding any compensation for that aspect of the complaint.
The bank has acknowledged they could have provided better service to Mr H, they offered 
Mr H £30 in recognition of this plus £48 for the costs of his phone calls. The investigator 
agreed that staff could have provided a better service. The investigator thought the offer of 
£30 and £48 was fair in the circumstances. I have considered the offer and I agree its a fair 
offer in the circumstances. And whilst I appreciate Mr H wont agree, I dont think it 
necessary for me to award any more.
Putting things right
I direct Halifax to pay Mr H £30 in consideration for the poor customer service and £48 for 
the costs of his phone calls.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold the complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mr H a total of £78 as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman