DRN-4328904
The complaint
Mr J complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor
insurance policy. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr J had a car. He insured it on a comprehensive policy for the year from 1
March 2022. The policy was in the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the
insurance company that was responsible for offering cover, setting premiums and cancelling
the policy.
Much of the complaint is about acts or omission of the intermediary on behalf of Advantage.
Insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for such acts or omissions, I may refer to them as
acts or omissions of Advantage.
Mr J was the policyholder. His father was a named driver. The policy covered social,
domestic, pleasure and commuting. The statement of insurance recorded that Mr J was
employed as a car valet.
For the year from 1 March 2022 to 28 February 2023, Mr J had agreed to pay about
£1,200.00 including breakdown cover and interest for paying by instalments. The instalments
were each about £100.00 and the last one was due on about 20 January 2023.
On about 21 December 2022, Mr J was driving to deliver pizza for a well-known company
when he and a third party were involved in an accident. The pizza company was the 
policyholder of insurance that provided third party cover to Mr J while he was driving for its 
business. Nevertheless, the third party contacted Advantage.
By a letter dated 16 January 2023 Advantage referred to the claim and to use of the vehicle
outside the scope of cover. Advantage gave Mr J seven days notice that it would cancel the
policy from 23 January 2023.
Mr J complained to Advantage that it hadnt treated him fairly. By a final response dated late
February 2023, Advantage turned down the complaint. Mr J asked us to investigate.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
there had been increased risk to Advantage that warranted Mr Js policy being cancelled.
The investigator recommended that Advantage should:
1. provide a pro-rata refund of the premium that Mr J paid if they hadnt already; and
2. pay 8% simple interest from 23 January 2023, when the policy was cancelled, until 
he is refunded; and
3. pay Mr J £200.00 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience; and
4. remove this cancellation from all insurance records.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J  
and to Advantage on 24 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
As there had been a fundamental change in the risk, I was minded that it was fair for
Advantage to cancel the policy.
I didnt consider that Advantage caused the inconvenience unfairly. So I wasnt 
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr J compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Nevertheless, it wasnt Mr Js fault that Advantage didnt insure delivery drivers.
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from Advantage, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr J (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
Mr J rather than Advantage cancelled his policy in January 2023; and that it has 
recorded that on any internal and external databases on which it has recorded 
information about the cancellation.
Mr J accepted the provisional decision. He confirmed that he changed his vehicle before the 
accident. But he asked what was the increase in risk to Advantage. 
Advantage didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy documents dated March 2022 referred to a car with an 09 registration plate. The
total cost was going to be about £1,250.00.
By the time of the cancellation letters dated mid- January 2023, the intermediary referred to
a vehicle with a 63 registration plate. It said Mr J had already paid about £1,290.00 and it
was refunding about £20.00.
Mr J didnt complain about those amounts. So I wont direct Advantage to make any (further) 
refund or to pay interest.
However, the change of registration and the increase in cost caused me to infer that 
between March 2022 and January 2023  Mr J had told Advantage he had changed his
vehicle. In response to the provisional decision, Mr J has confirmed that this change had 
happened before the accident in December 2022.
The final response mentioned the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 and suggested that Mr J had given incorrect information. But I havent seen
enough evidence to show that Mr J was already a delivery driver and gave incorrect
information about his occupation when he took out the policy in March 2022 or on any later
variation of the policy.Nevertheless, the policy terms included the following:
The Policy will need to be updated in the app or MyAccount if:

 You, or any insured driver/s, change the type of job they do
 You or any insured driver intend to change any of the Car/s on your Policy
 You want to change what you use your Car/s for (i.e. for business)
The Insurance Product Information Document included the following:
What are my obligations?
Youre required to keep to the conditions shown in your full policy documentation.
Some examples of these are:

 You must tell us as soon as possible about any changes in circumstances such as 
any changes to your car, the health of any person driving, any motor accidents, fixed 
penalty offences or motoring convictions
 You must tell us as soon as possible if you have had a loss, accident or theft
So Im satisfied that Advantage had highlighted the requirement for Mr J to tell it of any
changes in circumstances and of any accident.
The policy booklet also included the following:
Our rights to cancel your Policy
We may give you seven days notice of cancellation
We and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending you seven days
written notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the
Policy has been cancelled. We can only do this for one of the following reasons:

 You dont provide reasonable co-operation to us or your Insurer in order to
allow us to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend our interests
 Your Insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or
other reason
 You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your
Insurer reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend
their interests
We often say that its only fair for an insurer to cancel a policy because of a mid-term change
if it is a fundamental change in risk.
In Mr Js case, I accept Advantages evidence that its underwriting criteria prevented it from
providing cover to anyone with the occupation of delivery driver. As that was a driving job, I
accept that Mr Js change to being a delivery driver was a fundamental change in the risk to
Advantage.
I say that notwithstanding that his employer provided him with third party cover while
working. Advantage didnt want to insure delivery drivers at all, even when they werent
working.
Mr J accepted the provisional decision but asked what was the increase in risk to 
Advantage. He reiterated that his employers insurer rather than Advantage was responsible 
for third party risks while he was working.In my view, Advantage was free to make its own assessments of risk, and it had decided it 
didnt wish to insure delivery drivers even when they werent at work. So I accept that Mr Js 
change to being a delivery driver was a fundamental change in the risk to Advantage.
Also, Advantage found out that Mr J was a hot food delivery driver after the third party made
a claim. Mr J hadnt contacted Advantage to update his occupation or to report the accident.
Mr J hasnt raised any issue about the means of communication Advantage used to give him
notice of the cancelation. So Im satisfied that he received those communications.
As there had been a fundamental change in the risk, I consider that it was fair for Advantage 
to cancel the policy.
I dont under-estimate Mr Js inconvenience at having to arrange replacement cover about a
month earlier than he was expecting. However, I dont consider that Advantage caused this
inconvenience unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr J 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Nevertheless, it wasnt Mr Js fault that Advantage didnt insure delivery drivers. So I will 
direct Advantage to write a letter to Mr J (which he may show to any current or future 
insurer) saying that he rather than Advantage cancelled his policy in January 2023; and that 
it has recorded that on any internal and external databases on which it has recorded 
information about the cancellation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr J (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
Mr J rather than Advantage cancelled his policy in January 2023; and that it has 
recorded that on any internal and external databases on which it has recorded 
information about the cancellation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman