DRN-3405660
The complaint
Mr I complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lent to him when it shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr I applied for a Halifax credit card in 2014. Halifax approved his application and gave him 
a £1,000 credit limit. In 2020 Mr I complained to Halifax. He said it shouldnt have lent to him 
because he had other borrowing at the time and his income varied because he was 
self-employed. Mr I was dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, so he asked our service for an 
independent review. 
The investigator thought the complaint should succeed. This was because she wasnt 
persuaded Halifax had done enough to ensure Mr I could afford the credit he was given. She 
thought had Halifax done more, it would have realised lending to Mr I could cause him 
financial difficulties. Mr I accepted the investigators recommendation. Halifax didnt respond 
by the deadline we set. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator made the following findings:
When considering these types of cases, Id need to be satisfied that the checks 
Halifax conducted prior to inception were sufficient and proportionate to the amount 
lent. There isnt a set list of checks that a business must carry out, and it isnt for our 
service to tell them what information they should and shouldnt consider either.
Our approach would generally consider a less detailed affordability assessment, 
without the need for verification, to be fair where the amount borrowed is relatively 
small and the consumers financial situation is stable and when theyd be indebted for 
a relatively short period of time.
But in circumstances where the consumers finances are likely to be less stable or 
theyre being expected to repay a larger amount and over a longer period of time, Id 
consider a more detailed affordability assessment to be conducted  along with a 
greater degree of verification.
In this case, the credit limit was set at £1,000 which I wouldnt consider particularly 
high, but this needs to be considered in conjunction with Mr Is income and other 
debts.
And Halifax are responsible for assessing if Mr I could afford the account in a 
sustainable way. If the proportionate checks were completed, then Id need to be 
satisfied the bank made a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information theyd 
gathered as a result of the checks.
Halifax have explained that due to the time thats passed, and that Mr Is application 
was made via a third party they no longer have the data to show what checks were 
completed or what information was provided. Halifax have said however as the 
application was accepted; Mr I must have passed the checks they had in place at the 
time. This wouldve involved gathering information from credit reference agencies 
which would include Mr Is other debts such as overdrafts and credit cards. As the 
application isnt available, were unable to say what Mr I declared as his income.
But Ive looked at Mr Is bank statements from around the time of his application and 
his average monthly income (into his account) was around £775. As Mr I has told us, 
this did fluctuate, the highest week Ive seen was £270 and the lowest £50. Mr I 
provided our service with a copy of his credit file in September 2020 which I 
acknowledge doesnt go back to the time of his application, but I do think it shows a 
reasonable amount of applicable information.
I can see that at the time of the credit card account opening in February 2014, in 
addition to Mr I being slightly over his overdraft limit of £3,000 on his current account 
he had two credit card accounts. Mr I had a [credit card] account that had opened in 
April 2005, his credit file shows from September 2014 it was near the limit of £3,100 
with minimum payments being made.  And he also had a [credit card] account that 
had opened in October 2013, which again in September 2014 was near the limit of 
£2,500 with minimum payments being made. I think its more than likely the situation 
with these accounts was the same in February 2014. This means Mr Is level of 
borrowing before the account was opened was nearing his annual income.
Given the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Halifax carried out the appropriate level of 
checks before issuing the credit card account with a limit of £1,000. If theyd have 
done so, I think its likely they wouldve realised Mr I had a substantial level of 
borrowing already and that further borrowing could cause financial difficulties and 
wouldnt be sustainable.
I have nothing meaningful to add. Based on the evidence available to me, and in the 
absence of any further comments/evidence from Halifax, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator and the reasoning for them. It follows I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt been given the
credit card account, albeit hes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so will need to 
repay the principal amount. This means Halifax will need to:
1. Refund any interest charged on the account plus all late payment and over limit fees. 
Any refund should be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the account. And it 
shouldnt apply any interest on any outstanding balance.
2. If  when Halifax works out what Mr I would have owed each month without the 
interest, charges and fees  he paid more than enough to clear his balance, Halifax 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr I paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr I would have owed Halifax something on his credit 
card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year. 
3. Halifax should tell Mr I what its done to work out 1 and 2. Halifax should also remove 
any adverse information its recorded against Mr I on his credit file as a result of it 
offering the credit card account. HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to put things right for Mr I as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman