DRN-2827463
The complaint
Mr R complained about delays by Scottish Widows Limited (SW) in dealing with his 
instructions to change investments.
What happened
Mr R said he was given incorrect information in two calls on 16 March 2020 about the 
valuation date that would apply to a change in his investments and he had been unable to 
access his account on line. He said he relied on the incorrect information given to him about 
the timing of the valuation for the switch. This was that the valuation would be that at 
opening of business on 17 March 2020. In fact, the value used was that at close of business 
on 17 March 2020 which was around £5,000 lower. He wanted to be put in the position he 
was originally told applied.
SW said Mr R had a group personal pension policy (GPPP). It said Mr R called on 16 March 
2020 before 12pm. He was told the price used for his investment switch would be the price 
at the close of business the next working day which was 17 March 2020. Initially he was 
given the incorrect date and told it would the value at the close of business on that day. 
However, this was corrected and during the same call he was given the correct position. This 
was also followed up and confirmed in writing. Mr R called again for further clarification and 
was again told it would be the price for the next working day because he called before 12pm.
SW accepted the information supplied during the calls on 16 March 2020 was incorrect and 
falsely raised Mr Rs expectations of value. It also accepted that he had not been able to 
access his online account for some weeks. It apologised and paid total compensation of 
£250.00 for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr R thought the law of promissory estoppel was relevant. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said it was clear there had been a mistake as 
SW accept, they gave incorrect information to Mr R.
The law said that where there is an incorrect statement Mr R was entitled to be put back in 
the position, he would have been in had the correct statement been made. 
I had seen the policy provisions for the GPP. Section 7.1 covers the issue of switching 
between funds. This says that 
You may at any time ask us to cancel some or all of the units allocated to the policy in 
exchange for an allocation of units in another fund or funds then available to the policy for 
this purpose,
The date of exchange will be either the day after your request is received by us . or the 
following day as we choose, 
SW had also explained that generally pension funds are valued at mid-day and the system is 
updated at 6pm being the close of business. Requests received before 12.00 were 
processed by reference to the price on the following working day. Requests received after 12 
noon were processed by reference to the price on the second working day. 
On that basis it seemed that Mr Rs request made before 12 noon would be switched out of 
the existing funds by reference to the price at the close of business on 17 March 2020. This 
is the correct legal position that his contract with SW and at law would give to him. This is 
also the one he received. 
Mr R referred to promissory estoppel, this was broadly when a promise is made which is 
then relied upon to the detriment of the recipient of the promise. I have considered whether 
he placed reliance on something different which caused him a detriment and whether he 
should be entitled to a different position.
I listened to both calls made on 16 March 2020. There was conflicting advice as to the 
valuation point. Mr R also said he had the impression that in the past if he called before 12 
noon, he would get the price for that date not the next.
But by the end of the first call he decided to go ahead with the switch, and it is clear he is 
being told the price will be that at the close of business on 17 March 2020. I say that 
because the adviser checked the position and corrected herself. The position confirmed to 
him by the end of the call is the correct one. 
When he decided to go ahead, Mr R is very clear that the price will be that at close of 
business on 17 March. He clearly understands this. I say that because he is unhappy and 
complains saying this is a change from the past. He also said he wanted to be sent an email 
with copies of the provisions explaining this from the website. But he still goes ahead on the 
basis explained. This demonstrates he went ahead knowing the position was not as he 
hoped it would be. So, I think he went ahead in reliance on the correct and not the incorrect 
position i.e. that the price applied would be that at close of business on 17 March.
I had also checked with SW to see if it had changed its practice. It referred me back to the 
policy terms set out above which set out the forward pricing basis and confirmed it had not 
changed since he took out his policy.
I have considered whether Mr R would have changed his mind if he had the impression from 
the second call that the value was the one on the date he gave instructions rather than close 
of business on 17 March. The second call was confusing but for these purposes I have 
assumed it might have been possible to reach that conclusion. We know he didnt change 
his instruction from the first call. But he had no reason to change the instruction, if he now 
thought he would get the price on the day, as this was the position he wanted to be in. This 
means he didnt take any steps in reliance on any incorrect impression about the valuation 
date.
I have further considered whether he relied to his detriment by not cancelling this instruction 
to trade because he wrongly believed the value would be that on the day rather than the 17 
March and had he known this he would have cancelled the trade. But I dont think he would 
have cancelled. I say that because he had already demonstrated he was willing to go ahead 
on the basis of the correct position, being the price at close of business on the 17 March. 
Further on the first call he says he is concerned about the price falling further so he is keen 
to go ahead. So, whether he believed the valuation point to be that on the day or the 
following day I dont think he would have revoked the instruction to trade. 
For the reasons given I didnt think he relied on incorrect information to his detriment and I 
didnt think he was entitled to the value on the day he gave instructions rather than the 
following day.However, the position was not well explained which must have been inconvenient for Mr R. I 
considered an award for distress and inconvenience. I could see that Mr R spent a lot of time 
trying to get a clear explanation of what would happen. The calls took time and included 
contradictory information. Having considered this, I thought an award of £250 would be fair 
and reasonable. So, I didnt propose to ask SW to make a further payment as it had already 
made an award of £250 and has in my view dealt with the complaint.
Both and Mr R and SW accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision my view has not changed.
My final decision
I direct that Scottish Widows Limited has dealt with this complaint fairly 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman