DRN-3773068
Complaint
Miss P has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided loans to her.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss P with a first loan for £3,500.00 in June 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £317.39 but was settled in full in September 
2015. In October 2015, Miss P was provided with a second loan for £1,000.00. This loan had 
a 12-month term and had monthly repayments of £120.27.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss P and 118 118 Money had told us. He thought 
118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly and so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Miss P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss P complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss P could afford to repay before lending. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Miss Ps applications after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss P 
could to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand,     
Miss P has said she was already in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss P and 118 118 Money have said. The first thing for me 
to say is 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. 118 118 
Moneys searches appear to show that Miss P existing commitments at the time were 
relatively well maintained. I know Miss P says she was in a cycle of payday lending but 
according to the credit searches, there wasnt too much of this type of borrowing in 2015. 
Furthermore, Miss Ps debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in 
comparison to her declared income. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan two was for a much smaller amount and this was after loan 
one had been settled in full well before it was due. So it wasnt immediately obvious that 
Miss P might have been taking loan two because of the effect loan one left on her finances. 
And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications which lead me to think 
that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Miss Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept 
that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Miss P appears to be saying it 
should have it may have reached a different answer, although weve not been provided with 
clear evidence this was the case. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money was providing loans for relatively small sums over 
relatively short terms  albeit at high rates of interest. Its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss P is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
showed the repayments were affordable. And loan two was provided in circumstances where 
Miss Ps indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Miss P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loans. And Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss P. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman