DRN-3267365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around April 2016, Mr and Mrs C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs C decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,399.00 but when the interest was 
added the total cost was £18,177.40; and
the system would generate free electricity; and
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C. But it said it would pay them £200 compensation in 
recognition of the delay in its response to the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs C deny ever having seen the quotation. 
Whilst the quotation has been signed, Mr C has confirmed that he does not believe 
that the signature on the quotation is his own. 
Mr and Mrs C relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative, 
that the system would be self-funding through the income received through the FIT 
and the savings achieved on their electricity costs as a result of installing solar 
panels.
Mr and Mrs C placed little reliance on the quotation because the salesman was so 
convincing with the way he verbally explained the financial benefits of the system. 
The sale in this matter was conducted in our clients home, face to face, and as such 
the vast majority of the sales meeting was conducted verbally. 
Mr and Mrs C had no reason to believe that the assurances they had been given 
during the course of that meeting were inaccurate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs C could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs C and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Cs recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr and Mrs C agreed to enter into the contract for the 
system. I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those 
made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mr and Mrs C agreed to enter into the contract.In respect of the signature on the quotation, I can see that Mr Cs signature on the CMCs 
authorisation form matches it very closely. There is some variation between those two 
signatures compared to those on the complaint form and the satisfaction note. But given 
there is no question that Mr C signed the complaint form and the CMC authorisation form, I 
am not concerned by these variations. And Im satisfied that the signature on the quotation is 
Mr Cs, and that he therefore had an opportunity to see the quote at the time of sale. The 
other signature on the quotation is that of the surveyor, so I wouldnt expect it to match those 
or Mr or Mrs C.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs C makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £9,499.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £9,499.00. The total amount of credit is £9,399.00 and goes on to 
show that the total amount payable would be £18,177.40.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,499.00, it would cost 
Mr and Mrs C more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs C have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs C has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs C could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £200.34.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs C could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £215.99 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Mr and Mrs C the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £582.53. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments/System Performance and Returns with three tables 
showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the 
table for 180 months this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs C entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £100.43. 
For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£100.43, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs C was told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs C could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would pay for 
itself by year 19, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,929 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Cs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated electricity in line with this, allowing for a reasonable margin of error in the 
estimate. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs C 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs C entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman