DRN-3799264
The complaint
Miss J says NewDay Limited, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her 
credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss J used her NewDay credit card to pay for various flights in South 
America. She paid a company Ill call Firm C who then booked the flights through three 
local airlines. She paid Firm C just over £1200. As the pandemic spread the three airlines 
supplying all these flights decided to cancel the flights. So Miss J contacted Firm C about a 
refund. Initially it indicated that she could get a refund but later said it couldnt refund her. 
Miss J also liaised with the airlines directly but didnt get a refund. Ive seen that there were 
offers from airlines that she could rebook. So having been unsuccessful in getting a refund 
with Firm C she approached NewDay for help in her dispute in January 2021.
NewDay says it considered Chargeback and the Consumer Credit Act and having done so it 
didnt think it needed to refund her. So Miss J brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator decided that under the Consumer Credit Act NewDay should refund Miss J. 
NewDay disagree and consequently this complaint came to me for a decision.
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision finding that NewDay didnt have to do 
anymore. That decision invited both parties to respond by a deadline. NewDay responded to 
say it agreed with my provisional findings. Miss J didnt respond within the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having issued a provisional decision on the matter and considering that NewDay agreed 
with it and Miss J didnt respond within the timeframe set I see no reason to deviate from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision as described below. Accordingly Miss Js 
complaint does not succeed.
Miss J used her NewDay credit card to pay Firm C for the flights. This means NewDay has 
certain responsibilities to Miss J (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). There is no need for 
me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss J to hold NewDay liable for breaches of contract 
by Firm C, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again 
without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a 
contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
NewDay is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules which includes giving NewDay an avenue for card transactions to be disputed, 
namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about NewDay and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Miss J fairly. This decision isnt about Firm C or 
the airlines, neither of which is within this services remit for complaints regarding 
Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss J 
does here, NewDay (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. 
Miss J doesnt dispute that she used her NewDay credit card here. Nor does she dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think NewDay 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss J didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
NewDay has pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it 
notes that the transaction was in March 2020 and the flights were in summer 2020 but Miss 
J didnt approach NewDay until January 2021. By which time it was significantly outside the 
time limits applicable. 
Miss J has argued it the time limits should be taken from when she knew there was an 
issue but thats not what the chargeback rules say. In this case time starts from the 
transaction itself or the final date of services to be provided (i.e. the last flight) or the date of 
cancellation. On all of these bases Miss J is out of time.
Miss J also says she thinks applying a time limit was unfair. But consumers have no right to 
a chargeback. Chargebacks are part of the scheme rules run by the card scheme provider 
(not NewDay) to settle disputes between consumers and merchants. So even if NewDay (or 
any other card provider) pursues a chargeback as far as it can, as the scheme itself is the 
final arbiter of such disputes, there is no guarantee of getting a refund. Nevertheless this 
service believes that chargebacks should be pursued where card providers feel they have a 
reasonable prospect of success.
Miss J also points to the 540-day long stop. But this is in relation to services yet to be 
provided. But Miss J was on notice prior to the flight dates that theyd been cancelled. So the 
540 day long-stop doesnt apply here. Ive considered the card network rules and it is outside 
of the time limits appropriate to such a dispute.  So I dont think Miss J has lost out here 
because NewDay didnt raise a Chargeback as it would have been out of time. And 
consequently would have been unsuccessful.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Miss Js claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means that in relation to the provision of the flights the person who paid for the goods 
(the Debtor-Miss J) should have a contractual relationship with the airlines as well as with 
the credit provider (NewDay). 
However in this case there is a fourth party present, namely Firm C who Miss J paid. So 
clearly the DCS relationship isnt in place for the provision of the flights themselves as 
described in the CCA.
However Firm C does provide a service as explained in its contract terms in regard to what it 
does in the event of flights being cancelled by airlines. These terms set out that it will help 
with refunds and does so at a cost which is also set out. So clearly there is DCS in place for 
the provision of contractual services by Firm C in the event of flights being cancelled by 
airlines, which NewDay can be held responsible for under S75 (but not for the provision of 
the flights themselves). This is a key distinction and at the crux of this dispute.
Miss J points to being told that shed be refunded within twelve weeks by Firm C. I note on 
file there are emails from two of the airlines involved that make clear what the options are for 
Miss J regarding her flights. In essence these emails say she can rebook now or in future. 
Neither airline makes provision for making any refund despite the fact that it was the airlines 
that cancelled.
Firm C say in an email of May 2020 to Miss J that Unfortunately full refund is not permitted 
from both of airlines but you can re-book your flight without paying any date change penalty. 
All you need to pay is difference in fare and tax as per availability.
New travel should be completed within one year from issuing date.
Miss J then challenges this, and Firm C respond a couple of days later saying:
also we hope you understand that we really dont have any problem to refund the money. 
But unfortunately airline is not giving refund. Since airline is not giving refund we as a travel 
agent cant do anything. However if you wish you can speak to all three airline directly and if 
you can get in writing that all are giving full refund then we can try to claim refund from airline 
on your behalf.
So in May 2020 I think Firm C has made clear that the airlines dont provide refunds and 
hence Firm C cant do anymore. 
Then in August 2020 Firm C email Miss J again. In this email it says:
Also due to involve flight cancellation you are authorize for full refund. To process the 
refund there will be an admin fee of £75.00 per booking deducted and remaining money 
would be refunded back to you.
It then goes on to quote parts of its terms and conditions, the relevant parts being the 
following to my mind:
13.2.1 There is no automatic right to a refund and, when you return an air ticket to us, we 
will arrange for it to be presented to the respective airline or consolidator to assess eligibility, 
for a possible refund in accordance with the relevant airline's or consolidator's terms and 
conditions.
It goes on to explain that Firm C will charge a fee for this service. And then the terms say:
Refunds will not be paid to you until they have been received by us from the relevant airline 
or consolidator. In the case of airline ticket refunds, this is normally 10-12 weeks from the 
point the tickets are submitted for consideration to the airline.Please reply us back stating I agree to go ahead with the cancellation of flights at the 
admin fee as mentioned in the e-mail, if you wish to go ahead with the cancellation. Do 
mention the name(s) of the passengers clearly for whom you wish to cancel the reservation 
for. Kindly do CC your e-mail reply to (Firm C email) copied above. Once the refund 
application is validated by the airlines, we will send you the refund form which has to be 
signed by you. A scanned copy for the same has to be returned to us via email. Once the 
refund is validated by the airlines, it can take up to 2 weeks to get the refund from the 
airlines, so we request you to kindly send us the scanned refund form at the earliest possible 
to avoid delays.
I appreciate that this email has been read differently and is considered to mean different 
things by different parties. However it is clear to me that there is no comment on this email 
showing as a matter of fact that Firm C had already been refunded by the airlines. 
Furthermore it is clear to me that any refund from Firm C is dependent on it being refunded 
by the airlines first. Ive seen no persuasive evidence to show that as a matter of fact Firm C 
has been refunded by these airlines at any stage. And its terms make clear that it will not 
pay a refund until that has happened. So Im not persuaded at this point that Firm C has 
breached its contract in relation to refunding Miss J. 
I appreciate that the first quote of this email that Ive quoted, particularly the first sentence 
thereof, is not as clear as it could be. And I can see why it in itself could cause confusion as 
to the situation. But I think when taking into consideration of the email as a whole and what 
Miss J is required to do Im not persuaded Firm C has stated as a fact that it has been 
already refunded or that Miss J is guaranteed a refund by Firm C. To my mind it is clear that 
Miss J is required to act, then Firm C will act and then if Firm C receives the refund it will 
then make a refund to Miss J less its fees. And this is the service Firm C says it will provide, 
and Im not persuaded there is a breach here which led to Miss J losing out for which Firm C 
and by extension NewDay are responsible for.
Miss J points to consumer legislation and states this means she is due a full refund for the 
flights not being provided. But as Ive explained the airlines are responsible for the provision 
of the flights and not Firm C. Similarly it is the airlines that are responsible for complying with 
the terms of carriage that they operate under and not Firm C. And it seems clear that under 
those terms or local legislation there is no requirement to provide a refund and that a 
voucher/ability to rebook is all that they have to provide. And Firm C has put the ability to 
rebook to Miss J. And NewDay can only be held liable to a like claim that Miss J would have 
against Firm C. It would be unfair for NewDay to be have greater liability than Firm C in such 
an instance.
So although NewDay are only partially correct in its approach to DCS I dont think Miss J has 
lost out as a result of NewDays approach. I say this because although DCS is in place for 
the services Firm C provides Ive decided that Firm C has not breached its contract with Miss 
J or materially misrepresented to her leading to detriment. And I do agree with NewDay that 
there isnt the required DCS relationship in place with regard to the airlines provision of 
either the flights or the refunds for cancelling the flights. And accordingly Ive decided that 
this complaint shouldnt succeed.
For claritys sake Ill now address the other key arguments Miss J makes as I see them.
Miss J often refers to what she purchased as being a package. To gain protection under 
the Package Travel Regulations (PTRs) what is purchased has to meet the strict definition of 
a package which contains a number of elements from a specified description of the 
constituents of a package. Having considered this carefully Im satisfied that Miss Js 
collection of flights does not constitute a package under the PTRs.Miss J says if airlines cancel flights you get a refund. And I agree that such terms are often 
found in airlines in this country and indeed across Europe. It isnt necessarily the case 
everywhere though, and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence here that the airlines 
involved have acted contrary to their terms of carriage.
Miss J has stated that The airline stated to me they have approved the refund as they had 
cancelled the flights. Ive not seen this and note that on file that there is evidence from two 
of the airlines saying there is no option of having a refund. And for the airline she names and 
says told her she could have a full refund the only item I evidence I have on file for them is 
an automated acknowledgement of her claim to it. Ive not seen evidence it has said it has 
paid the refund to Firm C.
For NewDay to be liable here for the refund amounts the onus is on Miss J to show that Firm 
C has received the refunds and hasnt paid them on to her (less the admin fee). And Im not 
persuaded that this has been demonstrated. It should be remembered that it is for Miss J to 
substantiate her like claim against Firm C to NewDay and for NewDay to consider that 
fairly. Im not persuaded it has been shown on balance that Firm C received the funds and it 
is only at that point would NewDay become liable for such funds. I invited Miss J to show 
that Firm C had received the funds in my provisional decision and Miss J did not do so. So I 
can only conclude that NewDay hasnt done anything wrong here.
Miss J points to the customer service provided by Firm C. NewDay arent liable for this. It is 
only liable for breaches of contract or material misrepresentation. Miss J may feel that Firm 
C suggested or even told her shed get a refund, but any such misinformation wouldnt be 
enough to make NewDay responsible for the refunds. NewDay would only be responsible if 
Firm C breached the contract it had with Miss J and Im not persuaded this has been made 
out.
Miss J says her partner had booked mirroring tickets to hers at the same time through Firm 
C and his card provider has refunded him. This maybe the case. But firstly we only consider 
cases on their own individual merits. Secondly I should add that there are many different 
reasons for banks to refund consumers, including pragmatic approaches to such disputes 
and commercial reasons. Furthermore even though these disputes appear similar different 
businesses use different card schemes, which have differing rules and indeed different 
approaches to handling disputes. So I dont think this argument persuades me that my 
approach as delineated above is wrong.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded NewDay has treated Miss J 
unfairly. I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in place for the provision of 
the flights or any refund by the airlines involved. Im not persuaded that Firm C has breached 
the contract or misrepresented the matter materially. And Miss J was out of time in relation 
to having a chargeback raised. So I dont think NewDay has done anything wrong here 
which needs remedy. Consequently I have decided that this complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in this matter.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman