DRN-4185783
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wouldnt refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr M says he found out that there was an overdraft balance of just over £1,500 on his 
account. He says that he didnt apply for this or make payments on 5 February 2020 from his 
account. He says that he had deleted the Monzo Bank app from his phone and then realised 
he had lost his card. Mr M says he contacted Monzo Bank when he received an email about 
the balance.
Monzo Bank said it wouldnt be making any refund. It didnt accept that Mr M had been the 
victim of fraud. So, it said that he would need to pay this money back.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she didnt 
think that an opportunistic fraudster could have carried out this activity. The payments in 
dispute were faster payments and required a log on to the account. Mr M said he had kept 
his details safe. A way to log in was through a magic link sent to the registered email 
address for the account. Monzo Bank had Mr Ms genuine email address. Mr M had provided 
information showing that no other device had accessed his email account. So, she didnt see 
a point of compromise and didnt think that the payments were unauthorised. And so, she 
also didnt think that Monzo Bank needed to do any further investigation as Mr M wanted.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he wanted the account that received the funds investigated 
and to know when the payee was added. Mr M said that this was clearly a fraud case, and 
this shouldnt be taken lightly. He has been receiving debt collectors letters about the debt. 
He didnt think that the security applied was strong enough. He said that his device history 
could have been deleted from his email account and maybe by the third party. Monzo Bank 
should have a record of every log in and device IP address and location. He believed he was 
protected against this loss. He is considering legal action if he isnt refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, with security details. Where credit is involved, as is the 
case here on an overdraft, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else making it.   
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr M authorise these payments which might have involved him allowing someone 
else to use his account?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what most likely 
happened on the disputed issues I consider are relevant to making my decision.
I can see from the information provided by Monzo Bank that an overdraft was set up on the 
account on 5 February 2020 for £1,500. A number of payments were then made online 
which took the account balance up to the limit. To set up the overdraft and the payments 
required Mr Ms security information. Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated, and 
it is a matter for Monzo Bank to establish the security procedures on the account. I will look 
at whether I think those could have been compromised here.
Mr M explains that he hadnt been using the account. He paid in £20 when he opened it in 
December 2019. And he transferred that money out on 2 February 2020. He says that the 
app was making his phone slow, and he deleted it. He also says that he realised he had lost 
his card. I dont see a record of him successfully reporting that before he received an email 
about the overdraft on 13 February 2020. I have seen the information about the access to 
his account on 5 February 2020.
The issue I need to decide on is whether an unknown third party most likely was responsible 
for that. It seems to be Mr Ms position that this person would have somehow accessed his 
email account to obtain the magic link. There is no evidence to support that and the 
screenshot he provided to Monzo Bank only showed devices he recognised. I know he says 
that other devices could have been deleted. Again, he has nothing to support that and that 
for example he had any difficulty accessing his email account as a result. He says he 
received emails about the overdraft, and which led him to contact Monzo Bank.
It has also explained that a card PIN would be needed to set up the overdraft and to make 
payments. While I know Mr M says he lost his card at around this time there is no 
explanation of how an unknown third party would have also obtained the PIN. Such a person 
would have most likely wanted to take as much money as quickly as possible. There was no 
credit balance in the account and in addition that third party wouldnt know that Mr M would 
even be eligible for an overdraft and pass Monzo Banks checks. I can see from the 
information provided by Monzo Bank that the payments in dispute werent made until some 
two hours after the overdraft had been set up. An unknown third party wouldnt know that   
Mr M had deleted the app and not notice what was going on. 
What specific devices and IP addresses were used here, and which are captured by Monzo 
Bank doesnt assist in explaining whether someone else was able to get access in the first 
place.Having taken everything into account I dont think that the most likely explanation is that an 
unknown third party was able to have free access to Mr Ms email account, discover his PIN 
and apply for an overdraft and make these payments. And just at the time that Mr M says he 
had deleted the app and also lost his card but not taken any immediate action about that. 
So, Im afraid that I think it was reasonable for Monzo Bank to hold Mr M responsible for 
these payments and the resultant debt. I know hell be disappointed when I say that I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. If Mr M doesnt accept my decision he remains free to 
pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman