DRN-3867936
The complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-old him a life assurance policy. 
He says he was led to understand the policy provided cover for the whole of his life, but the 
policy expired with no value at end of the 10-year term. The policy was held in trust with Mr 
D as the sole trustee and the settlor, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
In April 2012, Mr D received financial advice from Halifax in branch. It was recommended 
that he take out a term assurance policy which provided him with life cover and hed pay the 
premiums over 10-years. He agreed to the advice, and the policy commenced shortly 
afterwards.  Around the time the term was due to end, he discovered the policy didnt 
provide any cover after the initial 10-years ended. Following this Mr D raised a complaint 
with Halifax as he felt the policy had been mis-sold. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that the recommendation was suitable 
for Mr D and it met his recorded needs and circumstances at the time. It also said it provided 
information to explain the aim and characteristics of the policy and was satisfied Mr D 
understood the benefits of the policy.  
Mr D didnt accept the response and referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt find that the policy had 
been mis-sold. In summary he said:
- He was satisfied the recommendation met Mr Ds need to protect his family in the 
event of his death.
- The recommendation also met his budgetary requirements at the time.
- He didnt find evidence that supported the policy would last for life  rather all of the 
documentation available suggests the protection was only for 10-years. 
Mr D responded and maintained that he wasnt told he wouldn't get anything at the end or 
that cover won't last his whole life. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going on to look at the wider suitability of the advice, Ive first considered what 
appears to be Mr Ds main complaint point. That relates to his recollection that he was 
misled into thinking the policy would provide cover for the whole of his life. He says he was 
never told the cover who end with no pay out at the end of the 10-year term. 
Ive looked at the evidence available  this includes Mr Ds testimony and the documentation 
available from the sale and during the term of the policy. Halifax has provided a copy of the 
policy schedule. This makes it clear the policy had a term of 10 years. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the policy would provide benefits that extended beyond this term.  Halifax also 
provided a copy of the Key Features booklet for the policy. This contains a risk warning that 
the policy has no cash-in value at any time, and if the benefit amount has not been paid out 
by the end of the selected term, the policy will end and you'll get nothing back. Ive seen 
copies of annual statements sent to Mr D each year about the policy. These all contain a 
statement that says, when your protection ends and all the statements confirm this was on 
the 22 April 2022 (i.e. the end of the 10-year term).  
I appreciate Mr D says he was led to believe the cover would continue for his whole life. But 
the evidence available doesnt support this was how the policy was explained. Ive also not 
seen that he raised concerns about this when his annual statements showed something 
different to what he understood. Having considered everything, Ive reached the conclusion 
that Halifax didnt do anything wrong here as the balance of evidence doesnt support that it 
misled Mr D about the extent of the cover. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr D. Ive reviewed the fact find 
document and financial report that records what was discussed during the sales process. I 
can see from this documentation that consideration was given to Mr Ds specific 
circumstances. It was identified that he had a need for life cover as his recorded aims were 
that he wanted to protect his dependent son in the event of his death. The policy 
recommended does achieve this for the period of dependency. It is also noted that Mr D 
didnt have any other cover in place. I can see that affordability was considered in the 
recommendation. Mr D was also recommended critical illness cover, but this was declined 
and a lower sum assured for the life cover was agreed (than initially recommended) due to 
cost.
Based on what I understand of Mr Ds personal circumstances  including the fact he had 
dependents and no existing cover  life cover to support his family in the event of is death 
would have been useful in those unfortunate circumstances. 
It follows that I havent found reason to uphold the complaint, so I will not be asking Halifax 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman