DRN-3093043
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Honda Finance 
Europe Plc (Honda Finance) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss S acquired a new electric car from Honda Finance under a hire 
purchase agreement. Miss S paid a £5,000 deposit and was then required to make 47 
monthly repayments of £424.90. There was a final repayment of £12,594.07 if Miss S 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement. 
Shortly after driving the car away, Miss S has said she started to experience some problems 
with it. In particular with the battery charge. In September 2020 Miss S emailed the 
dealership shed acquired the car from to tell them it had run out of battery charge late that 
evening and she was having to be picked up by a recovery team. She told the dealership 
this was the second time the car had lost charge and she had been alone at night with the 
car waiting to be recovered. At this point Miss S asked if the car could be rejected as she 
was unhappy with it and she felt it was faulty.
In March 2021 Miss S complained to Honda Finance. She said the battery had continued to 
be a problem, and shed received a recall notice for the car from the manufacturer. She 
wanted to reject the car as she didnt believe it to be of satisfactory quality. Honda Finance 
didnt uphold Miss S complaint. They said the recall notice was for an issue with the seat 
belt operation and was a preventative measure rather than a reflection on the quality of the 
car. Regarding the battery, Honda Finance said that the battery charge and operation had 
been assessed at the time the car was returned for the recall notice work, and no fault had 
been found with it. They said that, as no fault could be found the car couldnt be considered 
as unsatisfactory and Miss S request to reject the car was declined. 
Miss S brought her complaint to our service. While our investigator was looking into things, 
Miss S made her aware of another situation that had happened to her. In August 2021, 
Miss S was in the car while it was charging. At this point the car doors wouldnt unlock and 
the windows wouldnt lower, leaving Miss S locked in the car with her dog. She called a 
recovery service, who had to charge, and jump start the car  at that point the windows 
lowered, and the door could be unlocked. The recovery service said the car needed to go 
back to the dealer for some tests. At this point the car had only covered approximately 3,500 
miles.
Our investigator upheld Miss S complaint. She said she was satisfied the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. It wasnt defect free and it was a new car  so she 
didnt think the issues were down to durability or wear. She also said it was a safety concern 
that the car had locked Miss S and her dog in while it was being charged and a reasonable 
person shouldnt expect this to happen. She said that Miss S should be able to reject the car. 
She asked Honda Finance to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund Miss S deposit of £5,000 and pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date it was paid until the date of settlement.
Refund Miss S seven finance payments to reflect the impaired use of the car. Pay 
8% simple interest on those payments from the date they were paid until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Miss S £100 for the distress and inconvenience shes been through.
Honda Finance didnt agree. They said no fault had been found with the battery when the car 
had been returned to the dealership. They also said it had been explained to Miss S the 
number of miles that could be achieved between charges depended on several factors, 
including driving style and how the car is used. They said Miss S had refused to have the car 
assessed so they couldnt confirm if there was a fault.
Honda Finance accepted that it was alarming to hear Miss S had been locked in the car. But 
they said the recovery service report said the car needed to go back to the dealership for 
tests, and Miss S had refused to do this. They provided a response from their technical 
experts discussing why the car may have locked itself. Honda Finance believed they should 
have a chance to repair the car before rejection could be considered, and they hadnt been 
given that opportunity.
As Honda Finance didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. Prior to making my decision I 
wanted to know what the current situation with the car is. Miss S and Honda Finance have 
confirmed that Miss S returned the car to her local dealership in October 2021 prior to 
moving abroad. She stopped making her payments at this point. Honda Finance took the 
decision to terminate the agreement and sell the car at auction. Any outstanding balance at 
that time has been waived by Honda Finance and no adverse information has been recorded 
on Miss S credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss S is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service can consider complaints relating to it. Honda Finance are also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for complaints about 
their quality.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice. 
When there is conflicting of missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely 
to have happened. And, in this case, I think there is enough evidence to suggest the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss S entered. 
Because Honda Finance supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory 
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into 
accounts factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In this case, Miss S was supplied with a new car. I dont think a reasonable 
person would generally expect there to be a fault with the battery charge on a new electric 
car within 12 months of supply  nor do I think a reasonable person would expect to be 
locked in their car without any means of unlocking the doors or windows. I agree with the 
comments made by our investigator and accepted by Honda Finance that this is alarming. 
Miss S has told us she first had a problem with the battery charge shortly after taking 
delivery of the car. She noticed it reducing significantly and on a couple of occasions was left 
without any battery charge. She had to arrange for a recovery team to collect her and the 
car, and she was understandably frustrated by this. In September 2020 she brought this to 
the dealerships attention and first raised the prospect of rejecting the car. It was obvious 
from this point that Miss S was concerned about the suitability of the car and whether it was 
of a satisfactory quality.
I must also take notice of the email received from Miss S from the dealership in September 
2020. It said, amongst other things, that:
If we are sitting down to highlight all the points, it will only come to one conclusion: car has 
some faults and they are clearly making you unhappy, which I FULLY understand.
This email was sent to Miss S in response to her concerns about the car and her request, at 
that stage, to reject it as she wasnt happy with it and felt it was faulty. Im satisfied that the 
email from the dealership confirms that the car had faults from the outset.
There is some confusion over any repairs that might have taken place when Miss S has 
returned the car. She feels that the battery was looked at and fixed initially, and Honda 
Finance have stated that the battery was checked out and no fault was found. They have 
confirmed that they gave Miss S a new charging cable, but that wasnt to fix any issues with 
the battery itself  it was to help with the speed of the charging rather than the efficiency of 
the battery when it was in use. Its difficult for me to say exactly what repairs, if any, were 
carried out at this stage due to a lack of information. But I am satisfied Miss S spoke to 
Honda Finance and/or the dealership at times during the first six months of owning the car to 
explain her concerns about the quality of the car. 
But, from my point of view, the most serious aspect of this complaint is the issue of the car 
doors and windows locking while Miss S was in the car and the car was charging. This is a 
serious safety fault and one that could have had significant impact on Miss S. I appreciate 
the Honda Finance technical report which says the doors and windows wouldnt have locked 
without Miss S making a conscious decision to do it herself  but that is in direct contrast to 
the recovery services report. This said that Miss S was in the car and the doors and 
windows wouldnt unlock. The recovery agent had to jump start the car to get the power 
back, and at this stage the windows were able to be unlocked. The doors remained locked at 
this point. The recovery agent was present throughout this and Im more persuaded by his 
report than I am of Honda Finances, who werent there to see the faults.
Honda Finance have said that, under the CRA, they should be given the opportunity to repair 
the car before a rejection of it can be sought. And that is true in most cases. Its also clear 
that Miss S hasnt been prepared to give Honda Finance that opportunity. But I also have to 
consider whats fair and reasonable here. Putting the battery issues aside, I have no doubt that Miss S had lost faith in the car and this was compounded when she found herself locked 
in it and needing recovery. I dont think a reasonable person should expect that, and even 
less so from a new car that was only a year old and had only covered approximately 3,500 
miles. Honda Finances technical summary suggests the fault hasnt been seen before, and 
it implies that it isnt possible for the car to lock itself. So, it could be argued that, even if 
Miss S had given them the opportunity to look at the car, the fault wouldnt have been able to 
be corrected. 
But even if it was, Im not persuaded that any repair would have made Miss S feel any more 
comfortable with the car. An experience like she went through isnt something that is easily 
forgotten, and it just reinforced Miss S continued unhappiness with the quality of the car 
from the outset. Because of this, and the safety concerns caused by the incident in August 
2021 Im satisfied that rejection of the car is a fair outcome. 
As Ive decided that the car can be rejected, I would normally ask Honda Finance to ensure 
the agreement is ended at no cost to Miss S. But that has already been seen to by Honda 
Finance once Miss S had decided to return the car to them before moving abroad. So, it 
leaves me to decide that Miss S should receive her full deposit back. 
Its clear that Miss S hasnt used the car for long periods of time due to her uncertainty with it 
and fear of being left without charge. In the year she had it, she had only covered 3,500 
miles and it had been her intention to cover more. She insured herself to allow for 10,000 
miles. Our investigator has said that Miss S should receive seven finance payments back to 
reflect the impaired use  I think thats reasonable. 
Its also obvious that Miss S has suffered some distress. Being locked in the car would have 
been distressful  and for the distress caused Honda Finance must pay Miss S £100. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Honda Finance Europe Plc must:
Refund Miss S deposit of £5,000. Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date it was paid until the date this is settled.*
Refund the final seven finance payments Miss S made to reflect impaired usage of 
the car due to loss of confidence in it. Pay 8% simple interest on these payments 
from the date they were paid until the date this is settled.*
Pay Miss S £100 for the distress shes been caused.
*If Honda Finance Europe Plc considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss S how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman