DRN-3168216
The complaint
Mr W has complained that esure Insurance Limited failed to inform him that a third party 
claim had been settled under his motor insurance policy. He says that this took away from 
him the opportunity to make his own claim, and potentially affected the cover he had under 
his more recent motor insurance policies.
What happened
In 2016 Mr Ws son, who was a named driver on his policy, was involved in an accident with 
a third party vehicle whilst driving Mr Ws car. esure contacted Mr W to obtain details of the 
incident after the third party had notified it of a claim it was making. Around a month after the 
accident, esure settled the third party claim, but it failed to notify Mr W about this.
Mr W has explained that he only became aware of the settled claim in 2021. He complained 
to esure that if he had known that the third party had pursued their claim to settlement stage, 
he would also have made a claim for his own damages. By not informing him that the third 
party claim had been settled, Mr W said that esure had taken away the opportunity from him 
to make his own claim.
Mr W was also concerned that esures failure to confirm to him that the third party claim had 
been settled meant that he had not disclosed that fact to his subsequent insurers. He 
considered this meant that there was a danger that his more recent insurance policies might 
not have paid out any claim he had needed to make. Mr W said that only learning about the 
third party claim settlement five years after it had happened had caused him significant 
distress.
esure listened to recordings of the calls Mr W had had with it in 2016. It commented that it 
had told Mr W during the call that it would likely be accepting liability for the accident, that 
this would be recorded as a fault claim on Mr Ws insurance record, and that Mr Ws no 
claim discount (NCD) would be affected. esures view was that it had made Mr W aware that 
it would be settling the third party claim. However, it accepted that it should have sent Mr W 
a notification confirming when the claim settlement had been paid, and it offered £50 
compensation in respect of this.
Unhappy with esures response, Mr W brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that esure did not need to take any further action. Based on the 
call recordings from 2016, his view was that esure had given Mr W accurate information at 
that time about the likely progress of the claim. The investigator also considered that the £50 
offered by esure for failing to send Mr W notification of the settlement amount being paid to 
the third party was fair.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators findings. He has stated that his understanding 
following the phone call he had with esure was that if the third party claim was to be settled, 
he would be notified so that he could make his own claim. Mr W has said that he would have 
claimed under the comprehensive cover he had with esure so that he could have replaced 
his car with a like for like vehicle. He also remains concerned that the insurance policies hes 
had in place since 2016 might have been invalidated because the settled claim was not 
disclosed to the insurers. Mr W has highlighted that he is yet to receive the £50 offered by 
esure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that esures failure to notify him when it settled the third 
party claim denied him the opportunity to claim for damage to his own car. He also says that 
this meant he was not able to tell his later insurers that the third party in the 2016 claim had 
received a settlement, and he considers that this may have affected the validity of the cover 
he had.
I have listened to the call recordings of the discussions between esure and Mr W in 2016.  
Mr W explained the circumstances of the accident. He mentioned that his car was old, hed 
had it inspected following the accident, and the conclusion was that it was beyond economic 
repair. Mr W confirmed to esure that he was not going to make a claim under his policy for 
damage to his own car. He explained that it was not worthwhile to do so because in his view 
he would probably only get around £100 for the claim.
I have carefully considered Mr Ws comments that had he been told about the third party 
receiving a claim settlement, he would then have chosen to make his own claim for damage 
to his car. I cannot know for certain exactly what actions Mr W may have taken if he had 
received notification of the claim settlement from esure. However, based on his stated 
intention not to pursue a claim for his own cars damage during the 2016 call to esure, on 
balance my view is that it is more likely than not that Mr W would still not have pursued such 
a claim if he had received confirmation of the third party settlement. Consequently, I do not 
consider esures failure to notify Mr W in this regard resulted in him losing the opportunity to 
make his own claim.
During the 2016 call, esure provided Mr W with an explanation about how liability in the 
accident was likely to be determined. On the basis that Mr Ws car was reversing from a 
driveway and was in collision with a vehicle already established on the road, esure notified 
Mr W that it was going to deal with the claim as one where the driver of Mr Ws car was at 
fault. In the call, Mr W accepted this conclusion.
esure accepts that it failed to tell Mr W when it made the claim settlement. However, based 
on the discussion it had with Mr W, my view on balance is that esure did make it clear to him 
that it would be settling the third party claim. During the call, esure also explained to Mr W 
that his NCD was not protected and that as a consequence, it would be stepped back  or 
in other words, reduced.
In terms of Mr Ws concerns about the validity of the insurance he has held since 2016, I 
need to consider the extent to which esures failure to notify Mr W of the claim settlement is 
likely to have caused him difficulties regarding disclosing past claims to his new insurers. As 
I concluded above, in my view esure did make Mr W aware that it would be settling the third 
party claim. When offering insurance cover, insurers will ask a variety of questions to 
prospective customers. Commonplace is that the proposer will be asked whether they have 
had any accidents or losses in recent years.
Mr W was aware of the 2016 accident, and that this had caused damage to his car, and so 
he would have been in a position to tell potential insurers about this, even if he didnt know 
the details of the settlement payment that had been made to the third party. Fortunately he has not had to make any claims on his insurance policies since the 2016 accident occurred, 
and so he has not suffered any insurable losses in that regard. In addition, we do not know 
how any claim would have been dealt with if the insurer had subsequently learnt the details 
of the 2016 third party settlement.
As a result, in my view it is not possible to say exactly what effect the absence of disclosing 
the third party settlement would have had on the validity or extent of Mr Ws more recent 
insurance cover. Overall my view is that it has not been shown that esures failure to tell Mr 
W about the claim settlement has caused him any detriment. I do understand Mr Ws 
comments about the concern he experienced when he learnt about the details of the claim 
settlement so many years after it had been paid. But based on the circumstances of this 
case, my conclusion is that esures offer of £50 compensation is a fair one in respect of the 
concern it caused through its failure to send notification of the payment made to the third 
party.
I appreciate that Mr W is likely to be disappointed with my findings, and I acknowledge his 
strength of feeling regarding the way that esure has handled matters. However, based on 
the evidence provided, my view is that esure has adequately compensated Mr W.
My final decision
esure Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr W £50 compensation and my 
view is that this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision is therefore that esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr W £50, if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman