DRN-3660340
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In September 2021, Mr Ms account received a £9,800.00 payment. £4,800.00 of the funds 
were immediately transferred to another of Mr Ms accounts and £4,800.00 were transferred 
to a third-party. 
Monzo subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr Ms account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Monzo reviewed Mr Ms account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr Ms account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr M complained that this was applied unfairly. 
Monzo looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr M remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr M allowing someone else to use his account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr M says the funds were sent to him by a friend of his uncle. He said that these funds were 
for him and his uncle to purchase and then ship over a car. Mr M also told our adjudicator 
that his uncle would let him speak to his friend for her to confirm what hed told us. And he 
didnt have any other evidence to support what hed told us.     
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But he transferred half the funds to another of his 
accounts almost as soon as they arrived. And I dont understand why he would have done 
this if these funds were for a car. Furthermore, Mr M hasnt been able to provide a sales 
invoice or anything else to evidence him having purchased a car either.  
Im afraid the implausibility of Mr Ms version of events coupled with him being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate the arrangement hes described, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr M was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But while I sympathise with the position 
Mr M says hes found himself in, I still cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been 
complicit in fraudulent activity. 
So I hope that Mr M will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman