DRN-4202698
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy with how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (trading as Insure the 
Box) handled a claim she made on her motor insurance policy and with the repair work it had 
carried out.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but Insure the Box is the underwriter 
of this policy (i.e. the insurer). It is therefore responsible for it, and any references to Insure 
the Box includes the actions of the companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss I made a claim on her car insurance policy when she was involved in an accident. 
Insure the Box arranged for the car to be repaired by a garage in its network.
Miss I informed the garage that the airbag warning light also came on but Insure the Boxs 
inhouse engineer said they couldnt be sure the fault was incident related and declined to 
cover the repair work as part of the claim. Unhappy with this, Miss I complained. She also 
said it took too long to repair the other damages to the car and she wasnt happy with the 
quality of the repairs carried out.
Insure the Box didnt change its position, and it said the delays were unavoidable because 
the garage was waiting for parts from the manufacturers. But it said when Miss I phoned, the 
complaint should have been passed to their claims team, and it wasnt. It also said the 
garage should have informed its agents when the issue with the airbags was discovered, so 
it offered to pay Miss I £75 in compensation.
Miss I didnt accept this and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
the complaint should be upheld. He said that as its engineer didnt think the airbag warning 
light was related to the incident, he thought it was reasonable for Insure the Box not to 
authorise the repairs. But he thought it should increase its compensation to £200 because 
he didnt think the initial three-months it took to repair the car was justified. He thought Insure 
the Box caused further delays and confusion when it agreed to reconsider the airbag issue- 
despite an engineer stating this wasnt claim related.
Miss I doesnt think £200 is enough compensation for the distress she was caused. Insure 
the Box also didnt accept our investigators opinion, it doesnt think an increase in 
compensation is warranted.
As an agreement couldnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 June 2023 in which I said:
Miss I says she received a bill from the hire car company for £700 which she doesnt think 
she ought to have received. Insure the Box said it was not involved in the agreement Miss I 
had with the hire company as she had entered into a separate agreement with them. 
However, it provided system notes which show Miss I wasnt charged, and no payment was 
taken. If Miss I wishes to query this further, she will need to raise it directly with the hire 
company. I therefore wont comment on this any further here.
Airbags warning light
The terms and conditions of the policy say Insure the Box will not cover repairs which 
improve your car beyond its condition before the loss or damage happened. This usually 
means it is only responsible for repairing damage caused by the accident. Its approved 
repairers already carried out some repair work to the car, but it doesnt think the issues 
regarding Miss Is airbags warning light was accident related. So, Ive thought about whether 
it was fair for it not to take responsibility for fixing this problem. I dont think it was and Ill 
explain why.
Ive listened the phone call in which Miss I notified Insure the Box of the incident and noted 
the circumstances of the accident. Having also considered the garages initial estimate for 
the repairs its clear Miss Is car sustained damage to the front the car.
It had the car inspected by the manufacturer dealership and they traced the wiring to the 
internal failure and said the airbag computer would need replacing. Miss I says the airbag 
warning light came on after the accident. So I consider it is for Insure the Box to show the 
issue it identified with the airbag warning light wasnt accident related.
Its engineer says the airbag computer isnt something usually damaged in an accident; 
however, its notes show its inhouse engineer thought the damage to the airbag computer is 
in line with the type of accident that occurred.
It says the manufacturer dealership couldnt confirm whether the damage was accident 
related, and it declined the repairs on this basis. The manufacturer dealerships report it 
provided identified the problem, but the dealership made no comments on whether the 
damage was caused by the accident or not. Ive asked Insure the Box for evidence of the 
dealership comments on the damage in relation to the accident, but it hasnt provided it. 
Considering this, and the conflicting opinions provided by its engineer, Im not satisfied its 
done enough to show the accident couldnt have caused the damage.
Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened here. Having carefully 
considered all the information available and the level of damage to the front of the car, on 
balance, I think its likely the issue with the airbag warning light was accident related. 
Therefore, I dont think Insure the Boxs decision not to cover the repairs was fair or 
reasonable.
Quality of repairs
Miss I is unhappy with the quality of the repair work the garage carried out, she says part of 
the bumper above the tyre had been glued on. Ive reviewed photographs Miss I took after 
the car was returned to her and I agree her concerns have basis. I note this was raised with 
Insure the Box by email and I cant see that any action was taken to resolve the matter. It 
says it wasnt aware of the issues raised until the complaint was brought to us and it has 
since been unsuccessful in its attempts to speak to Miss I. Nevertheless, I dont find the 
repairs to have been of the standard I would expect.
Miss I has since raised other concerns, namely with her radio and the catch on the boot of 
the car, but I cant see that these issues have previously been raised with Insure the Box. 
So, I wont comment on this here. If Miss I thinks further rectification work is required, she 
will need to raise this with Insure the Box directly.
Customer serviceInsure the Box acknowledges there was a lack communication between its agents and says 
its claims department didnt take the relevant actions when Miss I made it aware of the issue 
with the airbags. It offered £75 in compensation for this and I think thats fair.
While I accept it had no control over the time it took to have the parts delivered. I note it took 
10 days from when it received the car on site, before the parts were ordered. Once it 
received the final part, the cross member, it didnt carry out the repairs until several weeks 
later. I appreciate the garage says it was around the time it decided the car was to go to the 
manufacturer dealership, but its notes show it wasnt booked in to the dealership until 16 
August 2022  over two weeks after the part arrived. So, I find there were some 
unnecessary delays caused here.
Putting things right
The dealership determined the airbag computer needs to be replaced. Therefore, Miss I 
should obtain an estimate from a garage of her choosing to repair the airbag fault identified 
and Insure the Box should cover the cost of the repairs. Miss I says the dealership provided 
a quote for the repair work, she can provide Insure the Box the estimate from the dealership 
if she has it available.
I think Insure the Box had enough time to inspect the car a second time, after Miss I 
informed it that there were issues with the repairs. So, Miss I should also obtain an estimate 
to rectify the repairs to her bumper from a garage of her choice, and it should cover these 
costs also. Alternatively, if Miss I prefers, Insure the Box should arrange for the rectification 
work to be completed by its approved repairer.
Ive also considered whether Insure the Box needs to do more to compensation Miss I. 
Insure the Box should compensate Miss I for the delays I mentioned above. Miss I also had 
to battle with it and its garage about the fault with the airbag warning light  which, as Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied was accident related. All of this has taken a considerable 
amount of time to put right. I also think it would have been upsetting to be told it wouldnt 
cover the repairs. And then to find the repairs that were carried out were of a poor standard. 
Therefore, I think Insure the Box should pay Miss I the £75 it already offered her, plus an 
additional £225 for the delays and upset it caused. 
Considering our published guidance on making these awards, I consider the impact caused 
by the mistakes sits at the top of our up to £300 range. That deals with repeated mistakes 
requiring a reasonable effort to sort, and resulting in impact over days or even weeks. I think 
that description is commensurate with what Miss I experienced in this case. So, I find £300 
to be the fair amount in the circumstances for the distress and inconvenience Insure the 
Boxs mistakes caused her
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision, therefore I see no reason to depart from what 
I said provisionally. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint and I require Aioi 
Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (trading as Insure the Box) to:Pay the cost of the repairing the airbag warning light.
Pay the cost of the repairing the damage to the bumper.
Pay a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman