DRN-1499382
The complaint
 Mr T complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans  
Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
 In 2018, Satsuma lent Mr T two loans. His borrowing history is as follows: 
 
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidPlanned 
InstalmentsPrincipal
1 29/01/2018 Outstanding 12 £800.00
2 15/07/2018 Outstanding 3 £300.00
 
When the complaint was made to this service, it appears there was an outstanding balance
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed with that view. 
He said he had taken out over 60 loans in a very short period from various other lenders. He 
had also made unsuccessful applications, which were refused because his credit was so 
poor. Other lenders had upheld his complaint and his bank statements showed that his 
borrowing was out of control. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
It is important to say that Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably 
repay his loans not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. 
I appreciate what Mr T said about his borrowing being out of control when he applied to 
Satsuma. Ive had the benefit of seeing his bank statements and I note that they do show 
significant borrowing. However, the issue I have to look at is whether Satsuma should have 
agreed to lend to Mr T in light of what it knew and what it should have reasonably found out. 
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldnt expect Satsuma to conduct a full 
review of Mr Ts circumstances. Id consider two loans in six months to be an early lending 
relationship. So at this stage, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to request Mr Ts bank 
statements. 
I can see that for both loans, Satsuma asked Mr T for his income and expenditure, which he 
provided. At this early stage, Satsuma was entitled to rely on the information Mr T provided 
about his finances. It also ran a rather simple credit check, which showed that he was not 
insolvent.  
At that stage, the checks Satsuma undertook were proportionate. From the information it 
gathered, the loan repayments appeared affordable when compared to his declared 
disposable income. And the credit check did not indicate that he was in financial trouble at 
that time. 
I appreciate that in reality, Mr Ts financial position was different to what Satsuma knew 
about it. But Mr T didnt disclose the extent of his financial trouble to Satsuma. And the 
proportionate checks it undertook didnt reveal those difficulties. 
With all of this in mind, Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. However, if there is an outstanding balance, I remind Satsuma of its 
duty to treat Mr T fairly when negotiating a repayment plan. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. Provident Personal Credit Limited does not have to take any 
action to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman