DRN-3503267
The complaint
Ms G says Santander UK Plc has failed to confirm how much money she has in one of her 
old savings accounts, and pay it back to her.
What happened
Ms G rang Santander to find out how much money was in an old savings account she had 
the passbook for. It could not trace the account and explained it no longer has any 
information about the account. It searched its archives and said if Ms Gs old account had a 
balance it would have been given a new account number and would be traceable. This 
includes old accounts from businesses it has bought over the years. So it concluded this 
passbook account had been closed for over six years and had no balance.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. She said Santander had provided 
screenshots showing the searches it had completed and there was no evidence of this 
account. Two other old savings accounts Ms G opened in 1992 and 1994 that still had 
minimal balances were found. So on balance it was most likely this account had been closed 
with a zero balance more than six years ago. As a passbook was not needed to close the 
account, Ms G having the passbook did not evidence the account still existed with money in 
it.
Ms G disagreed with this assessment. In summary, she said it was assumptive. She asked if 
Santander has a record of her other older savings accounts, why is it not even showing she 
opened this account, let alone details of the money in it.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. So based on what is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I am not upholding Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I can appreciate how Ms G might feel as she has the passbook for this savings account, and 
doesnt recall closing the account. And therefore she believes there is a balance remaining 
outstanding in the account which should be honoured by Santander.
But Santander has evidenced that its records do not list this account. It has explained if it 
was still open with a balance it would have been able to trace it, but it cannot. It is not saying 
it was never opened as Ms G said in her response to the investigators assessment, rather it 
is no longer open with a balance. As its searches showed two other old savings accounts in 
Ms Gs name that had low balances remaining I feel Ms G should be reassured the banks 
search was effective. And I think it is most likely this account was closed more than six years 
ago with a zero balance.
There can be many reasons why the passbook wasnt updated to show the account closure, 
including that the passbook wasnt available to record the account closure; that it wasnt 
needed for withdrawals; or that the maintenance and administration of the account in 
question changed during the lifetime of the account so that the use of the passbook was no 
longer required. Given the digitisation of the financial sector that has occurred in recent 
decades, this latter possibility is plausible.
As an informal dispute resolution service, our role is to impartially assess whether
a fair outcome has been reached. And considering Ms Gs complaint from this standpoint, I 
cant fairly conclude that an unfair outcome has been reached here.
This is because not only do Santander have records which show that Ms Gs other old 
savings accounts (with balances) could be found, but also because there are reasonable 
explanations as to why the passbook might not have a record of the account closure, as 
explained above. I dont feel that the existence of the passbook provides a compelling 
reason to doubt Santanders position here.
All of which means that I cant reasonably conclude that Santander have acted unfairly by 
taking the position on this matter that they have. It follows I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Santander to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms G was wanting, but I hope she will understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the decision that I have.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman