DRN-2093683
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the customer service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard. 
What happened
In late September 2019 Mr M was trying to make an online payment of £50 against the 
balance on his Barclaycard. He tried several times in a row but each time he simply got a 
message asking him to try again. Because Mr M was close to his limit on his Barclaycard 
this meant he had to pay with cash instead of his credit card when he wanted to buy tickets 
later that day. It ended up costing him more as a result  and he also felt embarrassed by 
needing to use cash. He eventually made the payment later the same day.
Mr M complained to Barclaycard. When he spoke to them, the call handler said there were 
ongoing upgrades which may have led to a technical error but otherwise the systems had 
been fine on the day Mr M had tried to make the payment. 
In their final response letter, Barclaycard said there was a known technical fault at the time. 
They apologised for the error and credited Mr Ms account with £25. They added that they 
dont usually issue updates when there are technical issues, and they explained how Mr M 
could have made his payment over the phone.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response. He thought that the problem with the system had 
been caused by planned maintenance. He said that if hed been told about it in advance he 
would have planned accordingly and avoided the inconvenience, expense and 
embarrassment of having to pay for his tickets with cash.
When Mr M brought his complaint to us, he said he didnt think the £25 Barclaycard had paid 
him was proportionate to the error. He said the compensation should have been at least 
£100. And he said he wasnt happy with the way Barclaycard had handled his complaint.
Our investigators view was that Barclaycard had done enough to compensate Mr M. She 
said she could appreciate Mr Ms embarrassment and that he might have suffered some 
financial loss but she thought he could have avoided this by making his payment over the 
phone instead. And she said she was happy Barclaycard had handled Mr Ms complaint 
fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said Barclaycard had failed to warn him in 
advance that there was going to be downtime. He reiterated his view that he shouldnt have 
had to pay cash. And he said that given the amount in question was £50 the compensation 
should have been proportionate. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to look at his case  so its 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at trying several times to make an online payment. And I 
appreciate it was particularly inconvenient when he was close to his credit limit and wanted 
to be able to make another purchase on his credit card. It seems much of Mr Ms frustration 
is because he thinks the problem was caused by planned downtime and that it could have 
been avoided if Barclaycard had told him about it in advance.
I know Mr Ms understanding that it was planned downtime came from his call with 
Barclaycard on 21 October 2019. During that call, the call handler told Mr M that there were 
ongoing upgrades to the app and website and that this may have led to a technical error at 
the time of Mr Ms problem. But, having listened to the call, I think the call handler meant that 
the routine, regular work on the app and website meant that sometimes there are small 
issues with the systems.
Ive looked at the evidence and I dont think the error was caused by planned maintenance. 
Barclaycard have sent us the schedule of planned maintenance downtime for the period 
from September 2019 to December 2019 and this shows that there wasnt any planned 
downtime on the date Mr M was trying to make his payment. 
So, Im satisfied that the issue wasnt caused by planned downtime, but instead was a 
technical issue that arose around the time Mr M was trying to make his payment. 
Barclaycard have apologised for the technical issue and paid Mr M £25 compensation. Im 
satisfied this is fair. In saying this Ive thought about the impact the issue had on Mr M and 
what he could have done differently to lessen the impact.
Mr M has said he was embarrassed to have to pay cash for his tickets. And hes said he had 
to pay more for them because he couldnt buy them online, but he hasnt told us how much 
more or provided any evidence. If it was particularly important to Mr M, Im satisfied he could 
have called Barclaycard and made the payment over the phone. I know Mr Ms questioned 
this, asking why this would have worked if the systems were down. But I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the issue was affecting all of Barclaycards systems  instead, from 
what Mr M and Barclaycard have described, it seems to have been a small and localised 
issue. 
Mr Ms said he thinks the compensation awarded should be at least as much as the £50 
involved in the transaction. But Mr M hasnt lost £50. Theres no evidence that hes lost out 
financially at all, and from what Ive seen, Im satisfied he could have done something to 
have avoided any financial loss and embarrassment. Im satisfied £25 is fair compensation 
for the level of inconvenience Mr M experienced.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms comment that Barclaycards call handler didnt communicate 
properly and misunderstood Mr Ms complaint. Ive listened to Mr Ms call with the call 
handler and I dont agree with Mr M. I think the call handler was clear and I can see from 
Barclaycards final response letter that their understanding of Mr Ms complaint is the same 
as ours. So, I dont think Barclaycard have done anything wrong in the way theyve handled 
Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman