DRN-3342001
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W complain about the way in which National Westminster Bank plc dealt with a 
mortgage application. Theyre unhappy that the bank:
- insisted they apply by telephone, despite their having told it that Mr M is hearing impaired 
and would struggle to go through an application on the phone; and 
- recorded a marker against Mr M on a fraud prevention database. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms W took out a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest in September 2019. Soon 
afterwards, in November 2019, they applied to port, or transfer, the mortgage to another 
property and borrow some additional money. 
Mr M has a hearing impairment. He uses hearing aids and lip reads. He says he wanted to 
make the November 2019 application at a NatWest branch because this would have been 
easier for him  but NatWest wouldnt let him do so. He had to apply by phone instead, 
which he found very difficult since he couldnt always understand what the mortgage adviser 
was saying.
The application was completed, but NatWest declined it and recorded a marker about Mr M 
with Cifas, a fraud prevention database.
Mr M and Ms W complained. NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong and it wouldnt 
remove the Cifas marker, so Mr M and Ms W got in touch with us.
Our investigator thought NatWest had had reasonable concerns about Mr Ms and Ms Ws 
application, so she didnt recommend it remove the Cifas marker. She also concluded that 
NatWest hadnt known about Mr Ms disability, and so it hadnt treated him unfairly in its 
handling of the application.
Mr M and Ms W didnt accept that conclusion. They said NatWest had discriminated against 
them and treated them unfairly, and it had no reason to record the marker. 
My provisional decision 
I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This complaint is twofold, so Ill deal with 
each issue in turn.
NatWests handling of the application 
Mr M describes himself as hearing impaired. He uses hearing aids and lip reads, which is 
why he wanted to deal with the bank face-to-face rather than by phone. He says NatWest 
refused this request, and this made going through the mortgage application very stressful 
and unnecessarily difficult. 
NatWest says its usual process for this type of application at the time was to complete it over 
the phone, but it could have arranged a face-to-face appointment at one of its branches had 
Mr M told it he needed one. It says it didnt know about Mr Ms hearing impairment and 
communication needs at the time of the application, and this wasnt noted on its records until 
later, in August 2020.
Banks should make reasonable adjustments so that customers with disabilities can use their 
services. NatWest says it understands this, and that it would have made adjustments for Mr 
M if it had known he required them.
Ive looked carefully at NatWests records of its contact with Mr M. Those records show that 
Mr M told it about his disability during the application process. Specifically, a note from 1 
November 2019 says: £185.60 DLA [disability living allowance] is to [Mr M] because he is 
deaf, this would continue for life. 
When this note was made, however, Mr M and Ms W were already going through the 
application. And it doesnt say anything about Mr M preferring to communicate face-to-face. 
Unfortunately, theres no recording of the call. NatWest says, and I accept, that this is 
because calls to and from its branches arent recorded and the staff member in question was 
branch-based. 
NatWest has been able to provide a recording of a later call Mr M had with its complaints 
handler, which Ive listened to. Mr M didnt mention his hearing impairment during that call, 
or say that he was having any difficulties with the conversation. 
In the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr Ms and Ms Ws application 
was adversely affected because it was made on the phone instead of in person at a branch, 
or that this led to the application being declined and the Cifas marker being recorded. 
Mr M and Ms W say they feel NatWest discriminated against them. In deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint, Ive taken account of the Equality Act 2010, as well as 
all the circumstances. I think NatWest caused avoidable upset to Mr M and Ms W by 
repeatedly saying it didnt know about Mr Ms disability when in fact it did. Its clear from what 
Mr M has told us that he has found this distressing. 
I understand NatWest does now have the appropriate marker on Mr Ms records, so its staff 
will be aware of his hearing impairment in future. 
So, while Im not satisfied that the outcome of Mr Ms and Ms Ws application was affected 
because it was done over the phone, I consider Mr M and Ms W should fairly receive some 
compensation for the reasons Ive set out above. I provisionally assess a fair award at £250.
Cifas marker
First of all, I note Mr M and Ms W have said they were entitled to port their existing NatWest 
buy-to-let mortgage to another property. Thats not the case  this was never guaranteed 
and would always have been subject to NatWests lending criteria. This was set out clearly in 
the terms of the mortgage they took out in September 2019. 
But NatWest didnt just turn down Mr Ms and Ms Ws application; it also recorded a marker 
about Mr M with Cifas, for application fraud. It had concerns about the application, and in 
particular about Mr Ms income. Lenders should only record information on fraud prevention databases where they have 
reasonable grounds to do so. Ive looked at how NatWest considered Mr Ms and Ms Ws 
mortgage application in order to decide whether it acted fairly here.
In assessing Mr Ms situation, NatWest asked why some of Mr Ms monthly wages didnt 
show in his bank account in line with his payslips. Mr M and his employer said Mr M had 
used his employers accounts to buy materials, and so some of his salary had been offset 
against those costs. Mr M has since explained to our investigator that there are no receipts 
for the purchases because they relate to materials his employer had already bought in bulk. 
He has also said that its usual for his employer to pay him at different times each month.
NatWest also asked about Mr Ms and Ms Ws reasons for selling the property they had 
bought only a few weeks earlier. It noted that they had had an offer too good to refuse; it 
also referred back to earlier applications it had had from them shortly after buying properties. 
Its records satisfy me that it looked at Mr Ms and Ms Ws particular circumstances and took 
account of what Mr M and his employer said; it also made independent external enquiries 
before recording the marker.
 
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why NatWest had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application, and I dont think it acted unfairly in recording the marker it did. So, while I know 
this isnt the outcome Mr M and Ms W were hoping for, I dont require NatWest to remove 
the marker. 
Mr M has said he has since had an application turned down by another lender. Lenders who 
use Cifas shouldnt automatically decline applications just because of a marker  thats set 
out in Cifass guidance to its members. 
My provisional decision
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that National Westminster Bank plc should pay 
Mr M and Ms W £250 compensation. 
I invited Mr M and Ms W and NatWest to let me have any more evidence or arguments they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision.
Mr M and Ms W didnt accept my provisional decision. They still felt NatWest had been 
unprofessional and discriminatory, and they thought £250 was insulting. They said NatWest 
had lied and withheld evidence, and there should be more call recordings, particularly given 
that the application call was made while they were at home, not at the branch. They thought 
the calls were crucial because they led to the Cifas marker being recorded  and to suggest 
otherwise was discriminatory and insulting. They also said the questions NatWest had asked 
during this investigation about Mr Ms hearing impairment were insensitive and disgusting.   
Mr M and Ms W also said that Mr Ms receipt of wages at different times and offsetting his 
wages against building materials shouldnt be an issue and isnt grounds for a Cifas marker. 
NatWest didnt say whether or not it accepted my provisional decision, but it had nothing 
more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
NatWest doesnt record all its phone calls and, as I said in my provisional decision, I have 
listened to the call it has been able to provide. Mr M and Ms W may well have been at home 
during the application call, but NatWest has said the staff member they spoke to was at a 
branch  and not, for example, at a contact centre. Thats why theres no recording of the 
call. It has, however, provided statements from the staff members Mr M and Ms W spoke to 
during the application, which Ive considered alongside Mr Ms and Ms Ws comments. 
I recognise that Mr M and Ms W feel NatWests behaviour should be investigated further. But 
there are limits to the powers of the Financial Ombudsman: we dont cross-examine 
witnesses, for example, or fine or punish financial businesses. 
I think Mr M was caused avoidable distress as a result of NatWests poor treatment of him. I 
also agree that some of the questions NatWest asked of Mr M during our investigation were 
insensitive and inappropriate. So I still consider that Mr M and Ms W should fairly receive 
some compensation  and that £250 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, bearing 
in mind that the awards I make are to recognise the impact of failings and arent intended to 
represent a fine or a penalty.
Mr M and Ms W havent pointed to anything NatWest got wrong in the application  so I still 
find I cant fairly say their application was adversely affected because the application was 
done by phone, or that this led to the recording of the Cifas marker. I see no basis on which 
to change my provisional conclusions about the marker, and I dont require NatWest to 
remove it.
My final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision is that National Westminster Bank plc should pay Mr M and Ms W £250 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman