DRN-3931171
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him, and his financial 
advisor, with incorrect or misleading information when he transferred pension savings to the 
firm in 2008.
What happened
Mr H held pension savings with another firm. In 2008 he was provided with advice from a 
regulated financial advisor. The advisor recommended that he should transfer his pension 
savings to a new plan with Aviva, and provided Mr H with information about the proposed 
investments, including the ongoing charges that he would need to pay. The information Mr H 
says he was given showed that no charges would be payable.
Mr H complained to Aviva in 2022 about the charges he had in fact paid on his pension 
investments. He said that the charges meant that the value of his pension savings had been 
reduced by around one third. 
Aviva explained to Mr H that his financial advisor had been responsible for ensuring that he 
had been given a full explanation of the investments when the transfer took place in 2008. It 
said that it had sent him information at the time, allowing him to cancel the transfer as was 
his statutory right, and detailing the charges that would apply to his ongoing investments. 
And it says that information about those charges had also been provided to Mr H in the 
annual statements that he received.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst he agreed that 
some of the initial information Mr H had been given by his financial advisor showed incorrect 
annual changes for the investments, he wasnt able to say that information had originated 
from Aviva. And he thought that the correct charges information had been given to Mr H by 
Aviva, both in the cancellation paperwork and in his annual statements. So, since the 
investigator agreed with Aviva that it wasnt responsible for the original advice Mr H had 
been given about the transfer of his pension savings, he didnt think Aviva had treated Mr H 
unfairly. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As has been previously explained to Mr H, there were two regulated businesses involved in 
the transfer of his pension savings in 2008. The responsibility for ensuring that the transfer 
was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances, and that he was given appropriate information, sat 
with his financial advisor. Aviva didnt sell the pension plan Mr H took directly to consumers  
all new customers needed to be represented by a financial advisor. In this decision I can 
only consider the actions of Aviva. Should Mr H have concerns about the conduct of his 
financial advisor those would need to be addressed separately. And since his 
financial advisor is no longer trading, the matter would need to be referred to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the first instance.
I think the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that his pension savings are not worth as much as he 
expected. The reasons for that shortfall can be summarised into three categories. Mr H 
stopped making pension contributions just a couple of years after the transfer. His 
investments havent performed as well as was anticipated when he first took out the plan. 
And the charges that have been applied to his investments have reduced the holdings in his 
pension plan  and that is even more apparent given the lack of any compensating monthly 
contributions.
I dont think that Aviva can be considered responsible for Mr Hs decision to stop his 
contributions. And when it was informed of that decision Aviva says it explained to Mr H that 
it would mean his retirement income might not be a large as he would expect. I dont think 
Aviva can be held responsible for the investment performance of the funds into which Mr Hs 
pension savings were invested. Their performance reflects the market conditions over the 
years. Whilst that performance might be worse than was reasonably expected at the outset, I 
havent seen anything to make me think that the underperformance was as a result of 
something Aviva has done wrong.
When he was considering the transfer, Mr H was provided with some information by his 
financial advisor in the form of fund factsheets. Whilst those bear the branding of 
Norwich Union (the previous name of Aviva) I think it is far from certain that they were 
provided by the firm. But in any case, I think it fell to Mr Hs financial advisor to ensure that 
the information provided on those fact sheets was correct. The financial advisor would be 
likely to be providing support to a number of other similarly invested consumers, and so 
would be likely to have a real-world view of how similar investments performed.
The information that Mr H was given by his financial advisor was incorrect. It showed that no 
annual charges would be payable on the investments he was being recommended. I can 
understand why Mr H is now disappointed to learn that charges were actually deducted from 
his pension investments. But I am not persuaded that Aviva was responsible for the incorrect 
information the financial advisor provided to Mr H. As I said earlier, I dont know whether 
Aviva itself produced the fact sheets given to Mr H. And, in my experience, it is unusual for no charges to be payable on investments funds. I think that the error might have been 
something that Mr H should have expected his financial advisor to identify.
Once the transfer was completed Mr H had a statutory right to change his mind. Aviva wrote 
to Mr H, and his financial advisor, to provide details of those cancellation rights. And as part 
of that letter Aviva set out full details of the investments Mr H had made, and the charges 
that would be payable on those funds. I think it unlikely that both Mr H and his financial 
advisor failed to identify the discrepancy between the information on the fact sheets Mr H 
has provided to us, and the information sent by Aviva.
Mr H has continued to receive annual statements on his pension savings. Those statements 
clearly show the charges that are being applied to each of the funds into which his pension 
savings are invested. So even if I thought that Aviva was responsible for the incorrect 
information that was initially given to Mr H (that for the avoidance of doubt I dont) then 
I think the subsequent information would have been sufficient to mitigate any errors.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr H. He has seen his pension 
savings eroded by the application of charges over the years. But Im not persuaded that 
Aviva gave him incorrect information at the outset  I think the information provided was the 
responsibility of the financial advisor. And I think the cancellation notice, and annual 
statements, sent to Mr H subsequently have correctly shown the charges he would need to 
pay.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman