DRN-4298399
The complaint
Mr N has complained about poor service he received from The Royal London Mutual
Insurance Society Limited when applying to draw his pension benefits. Mr N claims that he
has suffered a financial loss as a result of the alleged poor service.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued earlier this month. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mr N holds a Section 32 pension plan with Royal London. The normal retirement date of this 
pension plan was Mr Ns 60th birthday, which was in August 2020. Mr N was then living in 
Thailand, he had both an address in Thailand and the UK.
In December 2020 Mr N contacted Royal London to tell them that he wanted to claim his 
pension benefits. Royal London then sent Mr N a retirement pack which told him that he 
could receive either a full monthly annuity with no pension lump sum, or a reduced monthly 
annuity with a pension lump sum. Royal London gave Mr N projected figures for each option.
From Mr Ns 65th birthday his monthly annuity income would increase. The amount of 
income then payable to Mr N would be the same regardless of which of the above options 
Mr N chose.
On 10 December 2020 Royal London wrote to Mr Ns UK address to thank him for telling 
them the type of annuity that he had decided to take. The letter said that Mr N had decided 
to take the reduced monthly annuity and pension lump sum option, rather than a full annuity.
Mr N has said that due to medical issues, combined with Covid and lockdown in Thailand, he 
wasnt able to complete the application to start receiving his pension in 2020. As a result, Mr 
N didnt contact Royal London again until April 2022, when he returned his application forms 
to start receiving his pension. Royal London received these forms in May 2022. 
On 7 June 2022 Mr N also sent Royal London certified documents to verify his bank 
account, his identity and his address in Thailand. In Mr Ns letter he explained that he was
living in Thailand and asked Royal London to send all correspondence to his address there, 
and not to his UK address.
Mr N gave Royal London his full Thailand address. Mr N also gave Royal London his email 
address and his telephone number in Thailand. Royal London say that they received this 
letter, together with the certified documents, on 28 June 2022.
Royal London have said that they had changed their records to show Mr Ns Thailand 
address, instead of his UK address, on 12 May 2022. However, Royal London have also 
said that they incorrectly entered Mr Ns Thailand address onto their systems at that time.
Royal London sent Mr N a retirement pack in early June 2022, but this was posted to the 
incorrect address that Royal London had entered onto their systems. Mr N has said that he 
didnt receive this retirement pack.
The retirement pack sent in early June 2022 contained updated pension figures for Mr N, 
which had been prepared on the basis that his pension would start on 27 July 2022. These 
pension figures were valid until 27 August 2022, when they then expired.
Mr N telephoned Royal London on 15 September 2022 to chase up his pension payment. 
During the call he was told that he would receive payment of his pension in the next 10 to 15 
days.
On 20 September 2022 Royal London sent Mr N another retirement pack. This pack also 
explained that Mr N would need to contact Royal London to go through the risk warnings 
associated with his chosen pension option, and when this had been completed Royal 
London would be able to send an application form for Mr N to complete.
However, Royal Londons systems still held the incorrect Thailand address for Mr N, so this 
retirement pack was also sent to this incorrect address. Mr N has said that he didnt receive 
this retirement pack.
Mr N telephoned Royal London again in October 2022 to chase his pension payments. 
During the call Royal London gave Mr N updated values for his pension, based on a 
retirement date of 27 October 2022. These updated values were lower than the pension 
figures which Royal London had previously given to Mr N.
Mr N wasnt happy about this, so he complained to Royal London in November 2022.
Royal London sent their response to Mr Ns complaint in February 2023. In Royal Londons 
response they said:
Whilst we cant be held responsible for the delivery of your post, I believe that given the 
difficulties caused by the Thai postal service and the delays this has caused, we should have 
looked to send your correspondence by email wherever possible. I am also aware you were 
incorrectly told in a call on 15 September 2022 that the claim would be paid in 10-15 working 
days. I have therefore upheld this aspect of your complaint.
To compensate Mr N for any upset and inconvenience suffered, Royal London paid Mr N 
£100.
Mr N wasnt happy with Royal Londons response, so he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ns complaint. Their view was that Mr N should also be 
compensated for Royal London incorrectly addressing their correspondence to him, and the 
delay in replying to him between July and September 2022. The Investigator recommended 
total compensation of £550 for these errors, inclusive of the payment of £100 that Royal 
London had already sent to Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree with the Investigators view. He thinks that Royal London should pay him 
the pension that he wouldve received in December 2020. Mr N therefore asked for his 
complaint to be brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N first contacted Royal London about drawing his pension in December 2020. However, 
Mr N has explained that he wasnt able to complete his application then as he had health 
problems, which required an operation, and was unable to return to the UK because of travel 
restrictions due to Covid.
Mr N has said that he doesnt hold Royal London responsible for him not being able to 
complete his application to start receiving his pension in December 2020.
Mr N has however also said that he thinks Royal London should show sympathy and 
understanding, given the reasons why he was unable to complete the application process at 
that time and honour the original pension figures given to him in December 2020.
I understand the reasons set out by Mr N which prevented him from completing his 
application to draw his pension in December 2020. But, as Mr N accepts, Royal London was 
not responsible for Mr N being unable to complete his application to draw his pension in 
2020.
As Royal London was not at fault, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
direct them to either back date the start date of Mr Ns pension to December 2020, or to now 
pay Mr N the pension benefit quoted to him in 2020, as Mr N has asked.
Mr N did however contact Royal London again in April 2022, when he returned his 
application forms to draw his pension, which Royal London received in May 2022.
Mr N then sent certified documents to verify his bank account, identity and address in early 
June 2022, which Royal London say they received on 28 June 2022.
Royal London have said that mistakes were made when they entered Mr Ns Thailand 
address onto their systems on 12 May 2022. An incorrect address was entered. This meant 
that the retirement packs sent to Mr N in early June and in September 2022 were not 
correctly addressed. As a result, Mr N didnt receive these retirement packs.
I think that had Royal London correctly addressed these retirement packs to Mr N, he would 
likely have received them.
Mr N had contacted Royal London in April 2022 to re-start the process of applying for his 
pension, which I think meant that he did then want to complete the application process. Hed 
also sent them certified documents in June 2022. The issues that had stopped Mr N from 
completing his application in 2020 were no longer applicable in 2022.I therefore think that, on balance, its likely that had Mr N received the retirement pack that 
Royal London had posted to him in early June 2022, he would have provided Royal London 
with all the paperwork needed for him to then start drawing his pension.
The June 2022 retirement pack had a retirement date of 27 July 2022 and an expiry date of 
27 August 2022. I also think it likely that Mr N wouldve been able to complete the process to 
successfully claim his pension in time for the pension start date of 27 July 2022, had Royal 
London correctly addressed their correspondence to Mr N.
Mr N had also provided Royal London with his email address and telephone number when 
he wrote to them on 7 June 2022. Royal London have said that they received this letter and 
its contents on 28 June 2022. In their response to Mr Ns complaint, Royal London said that 
they should have looked to send your correspondence by email wherever possible.
I therefore think it reasonable for Royal London to also have communicated with Mr N by 
email, after they had been told of his email address, when dealing with Mr Ns application to 
draw his pension. I think that this would also have helped Mr N complete his application 
before the expiry date of the June retirement pack.
Therefore, whilst I dont think that Royal London were responsible for Mr N not being able to 
start drawing his pension in December 2020 (which Mr N has said he accepts), I do think 
that due to the above errors, Royal London were responsible for Mr N not being able to start 
receiving his pension from 27 July 2022.
I therefore think that errors made by Royal London prevented Mr N from completing his 
application to draw his monthly annuity income and pension lump sum from 27 July 2022. I 
think that Royal London now need to compensate Mr N for these errors.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think that had Royal London correctly addressed the correspondence 
they sent to Mr N, and sent correspondence by email, Mr N would have been able to start 
receiving his pension from 27 July 2022.
I therefore think that its fair and reasonable that Royal London now put Mr N back in the 
position that he wouldve been had he started to receive his pension on 27 July 2022.
Royal London should now calculate how much net pension income Mr N would have 
received to date of settlement, if he had started to receive his pension benefits on 27 July 
2022.
The figure calculated is Mr Ns past loss, which should be paid to him.
Royal London should also pay interest to Mr N on this past loss, calculated from 27 July 
2022 to the date of settlement at 8% simple.
Royal London have said that if Mr N was starting to draw his pension now, he would receive 
less monthly annuity income and pension lump sum than if he had started to draw his 
pension on 27 July 2022. Should this be the case, then Royal London should also 
compensate Mr N for this loss.
Royal London should now complete the application process for Mr N to start receiving his 
pension and pay Mr N the same amount of monthly annuity income and pension lump sum 
that he wouldve received had he been able to start receiving his pension on 27 July 2022.Royal London should then also pay interest to Mr N on the pension lump sum payment, 
calculated from 27 July 2022 to date of settlement at 8% simple.
Where interest is being added at 8% simple per annum, this is likely to be subject to tax. If 
Royal London deducts tax, it should tell Mr N how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr N a certificate showing this, if requested by Mr N, so he may reclaim the tax, if 
appropriate.
Finally, Royal London have already paid Mr N £100 in compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by their errors.
I believe that a figure of £250 is a more appropriate sum to compensate Mr N for the distress 
and inconvenience that I believe hes suffered. Royal London should therefore pay Mr N a 
further £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes suffered due to 
their errors.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint against The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited and that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited now 
compensate Mr N as detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr N and Royal London have responded to my provisional decision. Mr N has said that 
hes noted my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. Royal London have said 
that they accept the outcome of my provisional decision. 
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and no new information or evidence 
has been presented to me, my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
Royal London now need to compensate Mr N as detailed in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint against The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited and The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should 
compensate Mr N as detailed in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman