DRN-2127766
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs D says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs D took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in April 2002 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs D in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card each month. It 
paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs D was off work until she either 
returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs D mainly told us that PPI wasnt ever explained and she didnt knowingly buy any 
insurance. She said she assumed that she was being asked to provide a sample of her 
signature to match the one which would be on the reverse of her store card.
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive no doubt that Mrs D feels certain about everything shes told us. But what Mrs D says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just based on the way she 
says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. 
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ds store card application.
The application form that Mrs D signed when she took out her store card set out brief details 
of the benefits that Account Cover offered and included a section in bold type headed 
Protecting your Account.
Mrs D has signed in this part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. 
Theres nothing mentioned on the form about providing a sample signature. So, although 
I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that Mrs D was signing up for the insurance cover being offered.  
There were some other optional features on the form that Mrs D didnt sign up to  these options 
have been crossed through. So I think Mrs D probably understood that having PPI was her 
choice as well and it was up to her to say if she wanted to take out PPI alongside her store card. 
Mrs D signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs D wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to me that by signing the form 
Mrs D was indicating that she agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, 
understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
This means I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make 
Mrs D aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her 
consent. On balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs D aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs D. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs D enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
I've taken into account that Mrs D feels strongly that the PPI wasnt explained to her. And 
I accept that the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI mightnt have been as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I need to consider if this makes any overall difference and Ive thought 
carefully about whether Mrs D wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if better 
information had been provided. 
Mrs D told us she was entitled to 6 weeks sick pay from her employer followed by statutory 
sick pay. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs D was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs D was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs D with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Mrs D in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs D much better protection than she couldve relied on 
getting through her employer. 
Mrs D told us she didnt have any other insurance to fall back on and she hasnt told us 
about any other ways she couldve paid her store card if she wasnt working. So I think the 
policy offered Mrs D useful benefits in her particular situation. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs D. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs D off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs D clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. And it looks 
like Mrs D was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form.
It seems to have been affordable for her when she took it out so thats not a reason for me 
to uphold the complaint. Mrs D couldve cancelled at any time at no extra cost if she decided 
it wasnt something she wanted to pay for each month.
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs D, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs D has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ds comments, including what shes said about the way 
someone elses PPI claim was dealt with. We look at all cases on their own merits, taking 
into account the particular circumstances which apply in each individual case. I am 
concerned here just with Mrs Ds complaint about the PPI sold with this store card. So this  
point doesnt change my conclusion.
I appreciate that what I've said will disappoint Mrs D but I hope that setting out the reasons 
as I've done helps explain how I've reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman