DRN-3078356
The complaint
Mr K complains that Positive Property Finance Limited led him to believe his lender wouldnt 
apply an early repayment charge (ERC) when he re-mortgaged. 
What happened
Mr K had a buy to let mortgage. With PPFLs help he applied to his lender to switch to a 
residential mortgage, which his lender agreed. Mr K says the lender told him it would refund 
the ERC due on repayment of the buy to let mortgage if the switch happened within 90 days 
of the date his product was due to expire. Mr K asked PPFL to check this with his lender, 
which it did.
Mr K went ahead with the change to a residential mortgage. However, he then found out the 
lender had applied an ERC when he repaid the buy to let mortgage. The lender later 
accepted it had given Mr K and PPFL incorrect information and refunded the ERC and paid 
compensation. 
Mr K says PPFL should have given him better advice. He thinks PPFL might have made an 
error with the application.
Our investigator said PPFL hadnt made an error. It processed the application correctly and 
relied on the information it was given by the lender about the ERC being waived.
Mr K didnt agree. He said this matter caused considerable stress to his family over six 
weeks.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr K and PPFL checked with the lender whether hed have to pay the ERC when he 
repaid his buy to let mortgage. The lender said the ERC would be refunded if Mr K switched 
to a residential mortgage within 90 days of the product expiration date.
This information was wrong. The ERC was payable. This wasnt because PPFL made an 
error, or because it made the wrong application. The ERC was payable because Mr K was 
repaying the buy to let mortgage during the product term. The mortgage product couldnt be 
ported as Mr K was switching from a buy to let to a residential mortgage. 
Mr Ks mortgage product was due to expire on 30 April 2021. So, if he switched to a 
residential mortgage before 30 April 2021 hed have to pay the ERC. Mr K was also 
changing the ownership of the property, which would usually mean paying stamp duty. He 
wanted to complete this before the stamp duty holiday ended on 31March 2021.
If Mr K had been given correct information about the ERC (that it would be payable if he 
repaid his buy to let mortgage before the end of April 2021) hed have had to make a choice. 
Hed have had to decide whether to switch before 31 March and pay the ERC. Or wait until 
after the product expired and pay stamp duty. In fact, Mr K might have benefitted from the 
extension to the stamp duty holiday  although he wouldnt have known this until it was 
announced in March 2021.
The lender agreed to refund the ERC. So Mr K isnt out of pocket as a result of not having 
correct information about whether the ERC was payable.
But while Mr K isnt out of pocket, he did find the matter extremely stressful. Mr K says he 
didnt have funds to pay the ERC, and being told it had to be paid caused extreme stress 
over six weeks. Hes described how this affected his health. I do appreciate that this caused 
Mr K considerable distress. But I dont think that PPFL made an error. 
PPFL made the correct application on behalf of Mr K. It asked the lender about the ERC and 
was told it would be waived or refunded. PPFL passed on the information it was given by the 
lender. PPFL raised a complaint with the lender on behalf of Mr K. The lender said initially 
that PPFL made the wrong application, but this wasnt right. The lender has accepted that it 
made an error when it told Mr K and PPFL that it would refund the ERC, and has agreed to 
compensate Mr K.
I dont think PPFL was responsible for the error that caused Mr K such upset. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require PPFL to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman