DRN-4401871
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited when 
making a claim under his HomeCare insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that British Gass engineer arrived at Mr Zs property later than 
expected. Mr Z had been given an arrival timeframe of 8am to 1pm (though Mr Z has 
since said he was told by British Gas it would be around 10am), but the engineer 
didnt arrive until around 2pm. 
Mr Z explains he was due back at work at 1pm, so had to take the afternoon off 
because of the engineers late arrival. And he had to call British Gas to find out if an 
engineer was still going to attend when no one had arrived by 1pm.
It seems to me that even if the engineer had arrived towards the end of the expected 
8am to 1pm timeframe, Mr Z wouldnt have been able to return to work at 1pm. 
Thats because the engineer was at his property for around an hour and a half. So 
Mr Z may have had to take the afternoon off in any event.
Nonetheless, the engineer should have arrived during the stated timeframe, and its 
clear that Mr Z was caused inconvenience when this didnt happen. 
British Gas has apologised and paid Mr Z £35 compensation for the engineers late 
arrival. Im satisfied that was reasonable and reflects the inconvenience Mr Z was 
caused.
I note the engineer needed to obtain a part before one of the repairs could be 
completed. Whilst Mr Z is unhappy that he had to take more time off work for the 
follow-up appointment, its common for an engineer to need to return to fit new parts. 
Thats because they can only determine if any new parts are needed when an 
inspection is carried out, and dont carry all possible spare parts with them. I dont 
require British Gas to compensate Mr Z for this.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied British Gas has paid reasonable 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as British Gas has paid reasonable 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman