DRN-4362924
The complaint
Mr and Miss Fs complaint is about a claim Miss F made on her Alwyn Insurance Company 
Limited (Alwyn) legal expenses insurance policy, which was declined.
Miss F says that Alwyns decision was unfair.
What happened
In July 2021 Miss F was involved in an incident where she was bitten by a dog during a dog 
fight in a local park. She was injured and admitted to hospital. Following the incident, the 
Police charged her with offences under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 as they believed her 
injuries were caused by her own dog, which she refuted. Miss F was subsequently convicted 
of the crime she was charged with but was successful on overturning the conviction on 
appeal during which she says her version of events were proven. 
Following her appeal, Miss F made a claim on her Alwyn legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to bring a claim in personal injury in relation to the injuries shed suffered as a result of 
the incident. Alwyn declined the claim. They said the policy required her to report the 
incident as soon as possible and within the period of insurance. If the insurance is not 
renewed any claim must be reported within 14 days of expiry of the period of insurance. 
Alwyn said Miss Fs policy ended in September 2021, but her claim was reported to them 16 
months after the policy expired. As such they said she was out of time to bring the claim and 
declined to consider it further.
Miss F feels this unfair. Shes cited several reasons why she didnt bring the claim sooner, 
including that she didnt feel she was able to pursue a civil claim for personal injury until the 
criminal conviction against her had been overturned. Alwyn doesnt accept this and as such 
Miss F referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator considered her complaint and determined that it should be upheld. She 
accepted Miss Fs explanation of why the claim hadnt been reported sooner and said the 
onus was on Alwyn to prove that theyd been prejudiced by the late notification in this case. 
She also awarded Miss F £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her by the declinature of 
the claim. Alwyn doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Miss Fs complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. They set out that the:
(ii) the insured incident is reported to us as soon as possible and within the period of 
insurance (if this insurance is not renewed, any claim must be reported within 14 days of the 
expiry of the period of insurance). 
Theres no doubt that Miss F didnt report her claim to Alwyn either as soon as possible after 
the incident took place or within the policy period. But I take the view that she had legitimate 
reasons why. She cites an initial period of hospitalisation, followed by being charged and 
then prosecuted for a crime that would very much have had an impact on the outcome of 
any personal injury claim she might have sought to make against the owner of the other dog. 
After all, if matters proceeded to and remained at her being convicted of offences under the 
Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 on the basis that her own dog injured her, she wouldnt have had 
the basis for any claim at all against another. For this reason, I dont follow Alwyns 
suggestion that the criminal burden of proof was different to the civil one and this wouldnt 
necessarily have had a bearing on her claim. The criminal burden of proof is higher than the 
civil burden of proof so its evident that a conviction would have entirely coloured her ability 
to bring a personal injury claim at all.
I do however accept what Alwyn say that Miss F was only required to report her claim but 
not pursue it to be covered by the policy. I understand that but doing so wouldve meant Miss 
F required the benefit of foresight. She wasnt to know what the outcome of the criminal 
proceedings were going to be against her. And if the conviction stood, there would have 
been little point in reporting a claim at all to her insurers. Given her circumstances and the 
vulnerabilities shes described, as well as her state of health, I can well see why she wouldnt 
have reported her claim to Alwyn during the period of insurance. It was a difficult time for 
her, and I accept that reporting a matter that might have no prospect of getting off the ground 
might have felt entirely pointless. Indeed, at that point she couldnt be sure she had a claim 
at all. 
As the investigator said, having found that a reasonable explanation exists for why the claim 
was reported late, the onus is on Alwyn to demonstrate that they would be prejudiced by 
now accepting the claim under the remaining policy terms. Alwyn havent done that. None of 
their submissions address this issue at all. So, I think its fair that in the particular 
circumstances of this case Alwyn should accept the claim, setting aside the policy 
requirement relating to when it should have been notified and consider it under the 
remaining policy terms.
I also agree that Alwyns decision to turn down cover caused Miss F both distress and 
inconvenience given her personal circumstances, following an already stressful 18-month 
period that followed the incident itself. As such Alwyn should pay her and Mr F £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused.
Putting things right
Alwyn should:
accept the claim, setting aside the policy requirement relating to when it should have 
been notified and consider it under the remaining policy terms, and
pay Mr and Miss F £200 for the distress and inconvenience they caused by turning down 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Miss Fs complaint against Alwyn Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman