DRN-1764465
 
The complaint
 Mr W complains about charges applied by Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) when he 
voluntarily terminated (VT) his Hire Purchase Agreement. He feels these are unfair and 
would like them removed. And would like any adverse data in relation to these removed from 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr W says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with SMFL In April 2016. This was for a 
five-year old used car.  He said he decided to VT the agreement in March 2019 at which 
point SMFL charged him for damage including for  replacement rear and front windscreen 
and a full valet.
SMF said it reduced its charges from £1,353.61 down to £639.61 as it accepted there would 
have been some wear and tear during the time Mr W had the car. It felt the remaining 
charges were fair.
Our investigator issued  a first view in which she upheld Mr W's complaint. She found SMFL 
hadn't inspected the car on sale. There was clear evidence the car was sold with a damaged 
front windscreen. It was likely there was damage also to the rear windscreen at the point of 
sale. And that she felt it would be standard procedure for a car to be valeted on return prior 
to resale. She recommended SMFL remove all charges.
Mr W accepted this view but SMFL didn't.  It said it had already agreed to remove the charge 
for the front windscreen (£253.79) leaving only a charge for the rear windscreen and valet. It 
said the MOT history for the car showed in 2018 a stone chip in the screen.
Our investigator considered this new information and changed her view. She found damage 
to the rear windscreen was likely to have happened whilst Mr W had the car. She felt the 
reduction in charges that SMFL had already applied reflected the fact the car wasn't new . 
So she felt it was reasonable to charge for the valet service.
SMFL accepted hsi view but Mr W didn't. He noted the points about the MOT but felt as 
SMFL had agreed to waive the charge for damage to the front windscreen the evidence was 
immaterial. He maintained he had regularly had the car cleaned - he felt the strong smell 
was an anti bacterial spray mist he regularly used. He said the damage to the front seat was 
present when he got the car.
In relation to the rear windscreen he said the car was bought at a distance sale, was five 
years old and had 62,000 miles on the clock, SMFL didn't inspect the car or carried out a 
condition report prior to sale. Finally, there was no evidence he had caused the scratches to 
the rear windscreen. He said as no one apart from him knew the condition of the car when 
he got it  and it was more likely the previous owner who had the car for five years and drove 
62,000 miles caused the damage rather than himself as he had only had the car for three 
years and only driven 20-25,000 miles.Our investigator considered these points and issues a third view. She found that there was 
no record of the condition of the car when sold. It was a second hand car with reasonable 
mileage so it was highly likely there was some degree of damage on sale. That SMFL 
couldn't expect the car to be in perfect condition and that the damage to the windscreen and 
upholstery was minimal. She thought SMFL should waive the remaining charges. And 
correct any adverse information relating to this on Mr W's credit file.
Mr W accepted this but SMFL didn't.  It felt it hadn't been given any evidence to show why it 
should waive the remaining charges. It said it had been reasonable in reducing the charges 
from £1,353.61 to £385.82 but felt the remaining charges were fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think there is any dispute that SMFL charged Mr W for damage to his car when he 
decided he wished to VT his agreement. SMFL has waived a significant portion of its 
charges to reflect the fact the car was five years old with a mileage of 62,000 miles on the 
clock when Mr W got it. It also accepted that the cost of repairs to an old car would be less 
than to a new one.
That leaves two outstanding charges - one for the cost of replacing the rear windscreen and 
a valet charge for cleaning the car which was described as 'soiled' in the inspection report. 
As I understand  this leaves an outstanding bill of £385.82.
The inspection report clearly lists multiple scratches in excess of 40mm to the rear 
windscreen requiring a replacement screen at a cost of £343.32. And describes the 
upholstery as 'soiled' requiring a valet at a cost of £42.50.
I have no reason to dispute the findings of the report on the state of the car. Or the areas 
that have been charged for. I understand the inspection was based on British Vehicle 
Leasing and Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines which is standard practice.
However, Mr W bought a second hand car which would have been unlikely to have been in 
perfect condition given it was five years old when he got it and had already been driven for 
over 60,000 miles.
SMFL hasn't given us any information on the condition of the car when Mr W got it. Mr W 
tells us SMFL didn't inspect or provide a condition report when he got the car. So whilst it's 
entirely possible Mr W is responsible for the damage to the windscreen and the state of  
the upholstery with no information on the state of the car when he got it I don't think I can 
reasonably conclude the damage identified was caused by Mr W. So on that basis I don't 
feel its reasonable for SMFL to make the charges that it has. It should therefore waive the 
outstanding charges. It should also remove any adverse information relating to these 
charges from Mr W's credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Startline Motor Finance Limited should  waive the outstanding 
charges for the windscreen and valet. And remove any adverse information relating to these 
charges from Mr W's credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman