DRN-3405731
The complaint
Mr N  and Mr N complain about the communication and administration of the policy with 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco), under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N has a representative (Mr N) who holds a power of attorney, due to Mr Ns severe ill 
health.  The underwriters of Mr Ns policy were Royal and Sun Alliance (RSA). Tesco 
administered the policy and as such were responsible for carrying out the administration of 
the policy. This included: providing customers with their policy documents (including terms 
and conditions), handling any payments, amendments, cancellations, and other general 
service requests.
Mr N originally obtained home insurance with Tesco in 2019. In September 2020 he made a 
claim for storm damage. In October 2020, the policy automatically renewed, but Tesco didnt 
receive payment of the policy a few weeks later, when Mr Ns representative called and 
made payment. 
The representative told Tesco that they were acting as a Power of Attorney (POA), due to Mr 
Ns health issues. Tesco asked them to send in the power of attorney paperwork so that this 
could be scanned on to the system and there would be a record of the representative acting 
for Mr N. Tesco told the representative that this could take around seven days. But despite 
the representative confirming that they would send in the documents, this wasnt done. 
Nonetheless, a payment was taken for the full premium required. 
In April 2021, Mr N contacted Tesco to discuss the claim. Tesco referred the query to RSA 
who later told Tesco that it had re-opened the claim. As a result of this, a further premium of 
£15.60 was required on the current policy.
Over the next few weeks, Tesco sent several reminders for Mr N to pay the additional 
premium and advised him that if the premium wasnt paid, the policy would be cancelled. Mr 
N didnt pay the premium and Tesco (despite extending the cancellation period on a few 
occasions) cancelled the policy. 
Following on from the cancellation, Mr Ns home was damaged by a fire and he was unable 
to make a claim as the policy had been cancelled. 
Mr Ns representative complained as he felt Tesco had treated Mr N unfairly given his 
vulnerabilities and ill-health. In its final response, Tesco maintained that it was fair for it to 
have cancelled the policy as the outstanding premium hadnt been paid. It said that it had 
given Mr N many opportunities to pay which it wouldnt have done had he been a person 
without any vulnerabilities.  So, the decision to cancel the policy was correct. Mr N was given 
his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
Essentially his view was that Tesco communicated with Mr N fairly and processed the 
cancellation with fair notice. He also said that as Mr Ns representative hadnt sent in the 
power of attorney documents, Tesco were fair in communicating directly with Mr N, as Mr N 
hadnt given them authority to communicate with anyone else. And Tesco were not in the 
position to communicate with Mr Ns representative without this authority as this would a 
breach of data protection. 
Tesco accepted the view, Mr N did not. He said that Tesco had treated him unfairly by 
cancelling the policy, given that it was aware of his severe ill-health. And that his 
representative had made Tesco aware that there was a power of attorney in place and 
communication shouldve been directed towards them. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr N, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
As previously mentioned, Tesco is the administrator of the policy and my findings are limited 
to its handling of Mr Ns policy and how it communicated with him. I am aware that Mr N has 
made a separate complaint against RSA and I should point out that this decision wont 
address Mr Ns complaint against RSA.
Our role is to consider all the evidence presented by both sides and look at whether a 
business has made a mistake. If it has, and this has caused a customer a financial losses or 
considerable inconvenience and distress, we can ask a business to pay compensation to put 
things right. 
I think it would be helpful to briefly outline a chronology of key dates:
Mr N took out the policy in 2019. At that point there was no indication of any 
vulnerabilities. 
Sept 2020 made a storm damage claim. Again, no indication of any vulnerabilities.
Oct 2020, the policy auto renews. This was is later paid in full by Mr Ns 
representative. He tells Tesco he has POA due to Mr Ns vulnerabilities. Tesco asks 
him to provide paperwork to support that he has POA. The representative doesnt 
provide the POA documents. 
It wasnt until the following April that Mr N contacts Tesco to enquire about the storm 
claim it was at this point  when Tesco referred the claim to RSA to deal with. And an 
additional £15.60 premium was generated, as the no claims bonus allowance was 
reduced. 
Ive looked at the actions that Tesco took before it cancelled the policy. I can see that it 
wrote on three separate occasions to Mr N in May, to advise that there was an outstanding 
balance that needed to be paid. And if it wasnt paid by 1 June 2021, the policy would be 
cancelled.  
In addition, it called and spoke to Mr N on the 2 June 2021 advising of the outstanding 
amount. Mr N explained that he was waiting to hear back about the storm damage claim, 
and it was agreed that the time to pay would be extended. Following on from this, Tesco 
further wrote another four times, informing Mr N that the policy would be cancelled if 
payment wasnt made. Tesco again phoned Mr N on 23 June 2021 and spoke to him again. On this occasion, it 
further extended the payment date to 2 July 2021 and it agreed to phone him on 1 July 2021. 
Tesco called and spoke to Mr N on 1 July, but he told them that he was unable to speak to 
them at that time and requested a call back later that day. The call back was unsuccessful, 
and Tesco didnt hear from Mr N again. On 2 July the policy was cancelled for the non-
payment of the outstanding. 
Generally, we would think it was fair when businesses are considering cancelling a 
customers policy, to make contact with the customer via two different forms of contact, on at 
least two occasions. Tesco contacted Mr N on several occasions, via letter and phone. It 
also gave Mr N notice about the pending cancellation. And I note that the day before the 
policy was cancelled, it phoned twice to speak to Mr N. On the first occasion Mr N assured 
Tesco that he would make payment later that afternoon. And on the second occasion the 
person who answered told Tesco that Mr N would call back.  As Tesco received no call back 
and it cancelled the policy. Consequently, I think Tesco was fair given the level of 
communication it had with Mr N, advising him of the consequences of not making a 
payment. 
I have next looked at Tescos actions regarding the POA. I accept that Tesco was informed 
that Mr N had a POA, which was done when the POA called and made payment in October 
2020. But it asked the POA to send in the documents that showed that effectively Mr N had 
given him authority to communicate with Tesco on his behalf. The POA did not send in those 
documents and Tesco said that it hadnt been given any authority to communicate with 
anyone else apart from Mr N. 
Based on the evidence before me, it does appear that the POA didnt send in the required 
paperwork. So, I agree that Tesco wasnt given the necessary permission to speak to 
anyone else apart from Mr N. And I think had it communicated to the POA without this proof, 
it may well have been in breach of data protection. 
I have been provided with some medical evidence about Mr Ns vulnerabilities. I dont 
disagree that Mr N has those vulnerabilities, but the issue here is whether RSA had been 
correctly notified with documents in support, that Mr Ns representative had the authority to 
act on his behalf. Given the evidence, I dont think that this happened here, as no paperwork 
was submitted to Tesco for it to consider. 
Taking all the information into consideration, I can't see that Tesco made a mistake in how it 
handled Mr N's policy. Which means that I'm unable to ask it to pay compensation or settle 
Mr Ns additional fire claim. I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr N wouldve liked, 
especially given his personal circumstances, but I wont be asking Tesco to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman