DRN-3498399
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan, in 2007. Mr C says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Norrix Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer mainly to Norrix. 
What happened
At the time of the advice, Mr C was a deferred member of an OPS, having previously been 
employed from the late 1980s until 2006 and had accrued around 17 years worth of 
benefits. The OPS had signalled an intention to offer members an enhanced cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) if they decided to transfer out of the scheme. 
As a consequence of this offer, members of the DB scheme were also being offered 
regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met for them, but Mr C opted to use 
an independent financial adviser (IFA) instead. The IFA in this case did not have the 
regulatory authority required to advise on these types of pension transfers, but it had an 
ongoing relationship with Norrix, which did. The recommendation to transfer out was 
therefore made by Norrix, although Mr C also had a number of personal dealings with the 
IFA.
Information gathered about Mr C in 2007 was broadly as follows:
He was 43 years old, married with a young dependent child.
Mr C was a homeowner with a mortgage of £640 per month plus endowment policy 
costs of £130. He had since become self-employed, earning £1,700 (net) per month. 
Theres no indication of Mr C having any major debts or other liabilities.
Mr Cs OPS had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) in 2007 of around £39,000 
with a normal retirement age of 65. In addition to this sum, an enhancement of 
around £40,000 was being offered to members of the OPS who transferred out.
Mr C had no other pension.
In October 2007, Mr C signed the forms enabling the transfer to take place. He complained 
in 2020 about the transfer out of his OPS being unsuitable for him and says hes worse off 
as a result. Mr C complained to Norrix saying he only realised much later what had 
happened after talking to former colleagues in the scheme. He says he hadnt really 
understood the transfer process back in 2007. 
Norrix responded to Mr Cs complaint by saying it didnt agree the recommendation to 
transfer out was wrong. It says Mr C understood the differences between his OPS and a 
personal pension because this was explained to him. It also said that analysis at the time 
showed his pension could grow in a way that would make the transferring out suitable. 
The complaint was referred to our Service and one of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They said Norrix shouldnt have recommended the transfer out of 
Mr Cs OPS. The investigator also noted Norrix hadnt been able to provide much evidence 
or documentation of the transfer process, such as a recommendation letter or a suitability 
report. They came to the view that the transfer out was not in Mr Cs best interests. 
As the complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.16 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Having considered everything, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint, along the same lines as our 
investigator.
Introduction
A particular feature of this case is that we dont have very much information available from 
the time of the advice. Norrix concedes that the files it has are unsatisfactory and it 
explained this is basically because it regarded Mr C as a client of the IFA, with whom Norrix 
had an ongoing professional relationship. Norrix has therefore been unable to provide 
important documents from the transfer that Id normally expect to see. It acknowledged it 
never provided Mr C with a transfer recommendation letter or suitability report, even though 
it was responsible for the advice. It has also been unable to provide any evidence of Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR) or capacity for loss being assessed during the advice process. Norrix 
was, however, able to provide copies of a transfer analysis report which was generated as 
part of the process. Norrix says this helps to demonstrate that the transfer out was in Mr Cs 
best interests.
As a consequence of Norrixs close relationship with the IFA therefore, it seems to me that 
Norrix took the IFAs judgement on this matter as read and it failed to carry out the advice to 
transfer as diligently as I would expect. Norrix now admits this was a failing and a serious 
error, but mentioned it had a high regard for the IFA; it said the IFA in question was the only 
financial adviser for whose clients it ever provided this type of service.
Nevertheless, I should point out clearly, that as the firm that held the relevant regulatory 
credentials to advise on a defined benefit transfer, Norrix was responsible for the suitability 
of the advice provided to Mr C. Although a third-party IFA was involved, it was Norrixs 
responsibility to gather enough information to ensure the recommendation was suitable for 
Mr C, as per the regulators requirements.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Norrix said the critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits, assuming the full transfer 
value was invested at his normal retirement age of 65, was 6.7% if he took a full pension and 
5.7% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate was 6.6% per year for 21 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper growth projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year.
Ive considered all these figures with care and Norrix has made the point they show that if 
transferring out of his DB scheme, Mr Cs pension funds would have been able to grow by 
enough to make the transfer in his best interests. However, I disagree. 
Because of the significant failures in the advice process, I cant say for sure what Mr Cs 
intentions were and what his objectives in transferring out might have been. I cant say, for 
example, whether Mr C had indicated back in 2007 whether he would take a lump sum when 
his pension was eventually accessible or whether he would have been more likely to take 
the pension in full. In all likelihood, this would have probably been something he hadnt yet 
considered given he had some 20 years before he expected to retire. 
In my view, Norrixs own figures demonstrate that the financial viability of the transfer out 
was more marginal than it implies now. The critical yield in the case of the former scenario 
was 6.7% and so in determining whether the transfer was in Mr Cs best interest, Id have to 
consider the likelihood of this growth rate being exceeded, particularly as the regulator says 
that transfers out should at first be assumed to be unsuitable. But here, the discount rate 
was slightly below the critical yield figure of 6.7%, and the regulators middle projection rate 
was only marginally higher at 7%. So, in my view, whilst there was a possibility of matching 
the level of benefits in the DB scheme, I think there was much less chance of improving on 
them, particularly considering Mr Cs personal pension would have to experience a sustained level of growth over 20 years. Given the ups and downs the market experiences 
over time, I dont think this was likely.  
To make the transfer more viable in terms of the projected growth, Id have to assume that 
the 5.7% critical yield figure (only) ought to be used. But even then, given the regulators 
lower projected growth rate was only 5%, Mr C would have to be willing to take more risk 
with his pension to achieve this level of growth and crucially, Norrix failed to make any 
assessment of Mr Cs ATR, investment experience or capacity for loss.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr C was anything other than a blue-collar worker with no 
experience of investing in money market funds. Hes since told us he wasnt an experienced 
investor. And as he had a mortgage, a family and a moderate salary, and no other pension, I 
think his ATR and capacity for loss at the time would both have been low. In that context, its 
reasonable for me to assume the likely expected growth would be at the lowest end of the 
regulators projections, or around 5% and Norrix has shown me nothing that conflicts with 
this. 
As both critical yields were above this, I dont think advising him to transfer out of this 
pension was suitable advice.
Norrix asked me, in its response to our investigators view, to consider that Mr Cs pension 
scheme was in deficit and that the critical yield figures pertaining to the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF) would have been lower than 5%. However, Ive been presented with no related 
evidence about this. My understanding is that members were being offered extra money to 
consider leaving the scheme and theres nothing showing the scheme was so much in deficit 
as to be in danger of collapse. And even if this were the case, I would have expected this 
aspect to have been covered comprehensively in the advice process in 2007 and been 
referred to in terms of recommending a suitable way forward. There is no evidence of this 
being the case here.
Ive noted that the transfer analysis included some retirement modelling showing how Mr Cs 
transferred pension might grow and sustain him into retirement. However, Ive also seen this 
data was not for Mr Cs consumption as the associated notes explain these are for financial 
advisers only and not to be distributed to clients. So Mr C probably wouldnt have seen 
these, and even if he did, I think hed have found the data difficult to understand. There were 
a large number of different scenarios set out here; but these were not like-for-like 
comparisons with the wider guarantees and benefits in the pension scheme Mr C left. 
Certain assumptions were also made about fund performance going forward, and I note that 
the critical yield figures for retirement at 60, for example, were much higher than those Ive 
quoted above, making transferring out much less viable. 
So, having considered this analysis, it doesnt change my view. Past performance is no 
guarantee of future performance. I also consider the discount rates and the regulators lower 
standard projections to be much more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than 
projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.As Ive explained above, the critical yield and growth figures show, at very best, a highly 
uncertain and very limited chance of Mr Cs pension growing outside the scheme in a way 
that made transferring viable, even when retiring at the normal retirement age of 65. These 
things, together with the regulators presumption that such transfers are unlikely to be 
suitable, show there is solid and reliable evidence that the advice to transfer out wasnt 
suitable or in Mr Cs best interests. In considering other scenarios, such as taking a full 
pension or retiring early at 60 for example, the case becomes even weaker; these very 
clearly demonstrate the transfer out was unsuitable.
Having been clear that the transfer was unsuitable in this context, Ive considered whether 
there might be other reasons which could change this.
Flexibility and income needs
Because Norrix failed to provide a recommendation letter or suitability report Ive been 
unable to fully understand what Mr Cs objectives and needs at the time were or what the 
advice was based on. However, Mr C was only 43 years old and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr C probably had around 20 years before he 
could realistically think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind 
of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for him to give up his guaranteed benefits 
now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be, even though an incentive 
was being offered. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have 
done so closer to retirement. In the meantime hed have retained many of the benefits I think 
were of relevance to him.
Also based on the information I have, theres no evidence Mr C needed a flexible income in 
retirement and theres nothing showing he had a desire or the capacity to manage his own 
pension affairs, as of 2007. So, Im satisfied Mr C could have met his income needs in 
retirement by using the pension in the way it was intended, through the DB scheme at 65. 
Death benefits
I cant say whether, or to what extent, death benefits were discussed in this case. Death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension may have been an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement and this was Mr Cs primary retirement savings by some way at the 
time, other than his state pension. Ive seen no evidence Norrix explored to what extent Mr C 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were probably 
underplayed. These were good benefits in this case, and Mr C was married and had 
children. So the spouses / dependents pension provided by the DB scheme would have 
been useful if Mr C predeceased them. I think its unlikely that Norrix made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. Ive noted Mr C took out a short and decreasing value life policy around this time. Ive seen 
no explanation about this but its term and value seem very unlikely to me to impact on my 
decision in any way. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer 
to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
Other issues
Ive considered the points made by Norrix about Mr C having the differences between DB 
and personal pensions explained to him at the time. But while it was important for Norrix to 
explain this to Mr C, its job was much wider than this. Its role here was to really understand 
Mr Cs needs and make recommendations that were suitable for him. And if the transfer out 
couldnt be clearly shown to be in his interests, Norrix shouldnt have advised him to do it.
Norrix also added that the other IFA involved had discussed the transfer with Mr C at length 
and Norrix trusted the adviser. But as Ive said above, Norrix was responsible for giving the 
advice as the only pension transfer specialist involved. So, while it could take into account 
what information Mr C had been given by the IFA, it still needed to gather sufficient 
information and carry out a full advice process.
Norrix also mentioned in response to our investigators view, in May 2022, that the tax-free 
element available to Mr C from his pension would have been higher in a personal pension 
than available through his OPS. This is often the case, because the values and benefits of 
these pensions are calculated differently. But this doesnt change anything either. Norrix 
ought to have explained this came with certain consequences. Having more in tax-free cash 
would lower his ongoing pension and I cant see this was either pointed out, or was 
something that Mr C was interested in or needed. So this doesnt change what I think. The 
potential for higher tax-free cash is therefore just a generic statement and not applicable to 
Mr C being advised to transfer out of his pension in 2007.
Suitability of investments
Norrix recommended that Mr C invest in a personal pension. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the 
personal pension wouldnt have been made if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that during the advice process, a number of features about personal pensions, 
were most likely explained to Mr C. I accept his considerations would have also included the 
enhancement to leave his existing scheme. However, in my view, Norrix failed in its duty 
here. Norrix wasnt there to merely transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted at the 
time, or to only obtain the enhancement without other considerations, the advisers role was 
to act in his best interests.
This was Mr Cs sole pension and ultimately I dont think the advice given to him was 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing future income and as Ive 
shown, by transferring, the opportunity to improve on these benefits was limited and if he 
decided to retire early, he was likely to be worse off. In my view, there were no other 
particular reasons or objectives which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would have gone ahead anyway, against 
Norrix's advice. As Ive explained, in this case Mr C specifically went outside the paid for 
advice being offered to members of the scheme, to seek his own IFA. He paid for that advice and so I think that demonstrates he was keen to get what he considered to be an 
independent view on whether he should transfer out of the scheme.  And if hed been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme, I think Mr C would have followed that advice.
I say this because there doesnt appear to have been any real motivation for Mr C to want to 
transfer out at the time.  He couldnt access his pension for a number of years and he didnt 
intend to use the cash incentive for anything  he invested it in his pension. So, I think if 
Norrix had set out clearly why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer and that even with the 
enhanced CETV he had a limited opportunity to improve on his DB scheme, which was 
guaranteed, I think hed have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Norrix should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
So, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Norrix to now put Mr C, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Norrixs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Norrix must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Norrix may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Norrix receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Norrix to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that Norrix 
pays the balance.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Norrix to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Norrix Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Norrix Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Norrix 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Norrix Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Norrix Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept. Further, its unlikely that Mr C 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman