DRN-3810396
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc failed to 
provide him with appropriate information or advice about making additional pension 
contributions in 1996.
What happened
Mr P has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company. But in 
this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all correspondence as having been with, and 
from, Mr P himself.
Mr P met with Zurich in March 1996 to discuss making additional provision for his retirement. 
At that time he was aged 31 and a member of his occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
Zurich advised Mr P that he should make free standing additional voluntary contributions 
(FSAVCs) to a new pension plan. Mr P accepted the advice and started to pay monthly 
contributions of £25.
Mr P has complained that the advice Zurich gave him was unsuitable. He says that Zurich 
failed to provide him with sufficient information about paying additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) to his OPS instead.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that the 
documentation from the time didnt show that Zurich had sufficiently discussed the 
differences in the charges that Mr P would need to pay between the AVC and FSAVC plans. 
And he had not seen enough evidence to suggest any other reason the FSAVC plan might 
be more suitable for Mr P. So he thought that the complaint should be upheld and asked 
Zurich to pay Mr P some compensation.
Zurich didnt agree with that assessment. It said that the evidence from the time did show 
that Mr P had been made aware that he could pay AVCs instead. It said that level of 
awareness was sufficient to conclude that Zurich had met its regulatory obligations at the 
time. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr P accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Zurich. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advisor that met with Mr P was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Zurich. They couldnt actively recommend any 
other products from any other product providers including the in-house options (AVCs or 
added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time 
- LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code 
said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the 
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and 
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question
So, I think this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options 
would most likely be available to consumers like Mr P. And in addition to highlighting the 
benefits of the FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic benefits of the 
in-house options, including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs 
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS 
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option.
Ive looked carefully at the paperwork that was completed when Zurich provided its advice to 
Mr P. That document makes two references to the additional contribution options provided 
by OPS. It says;
Advised him of being able to buy back years in his scheme but does not want to do 
so because of costs and
Told him about the in house AVC but wants something more flexible.
So I think it is reasonable to conclude that, at the very least, Mr P was made aware that his 
OPS offered him the opportunity to either purchase added years benefits, or to pay AVCs. 
But I dont think that reasonably leads to a conclusion that Zurich met its regulatory 
obligations.From the comments about the added years option it is clear that cost was important to 
Mr P. And the information Zurich recorded on its fact find does suggest that Mr P only had a 
limited amount of money left over each month that he could use to fund his additional 
pension contributions. So I think the difference in the charges that Mr P would need to pay 
on the FSAVC and AVC plans might have been of paramount importance to him.
I dont think it is sufficient for a tied advisor to simply make a passing reference to the 
alternatives offered by the OPS. I think, even if the advisor has little knowledge of the OPS 
arrangements, it was generally accepted that the AVC charges were likely to be lower, and 
so this should have been specifically discussed with the consumer. Here Mr P was a 
member of the teaching profession and so Id expect the advisor to have a better knowledge 
of that scheme than other less common OPSs.
Zurich has said that our expectations of what was required of a tied advisor in early 1996 are 
too great. It says that the advisor simply needed to make a consumer aware of the existence 
of the AVC option  not that a discussion was needed about the difference in the charges. 
But I dont agree.
In 1999 the former regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) ordered a review of the 
sales of FSAVC products. As part of that review it referenced guidance that had been issued 
by the Personal Investment Authority in May 1996. I accept that guidance was issued after 
the sale of the FSAVC product to Mr P. But I am of the opinion that the May 1996 guidance 
was largely a restatement of what was considered to be best practice in the years before. 
And that view appears to be shared by the FSA when it ordered the review of FSAVC sales. 
In its proposals to put things right it make no differentiation between what would be expected 
for sales that took place either before or after May 1996.
So Im not persuaded that Zurich has provided any evidence to lead me to a conclusion, on 
the balance of probability, that it is likely a discussion took place between Mr P and its 
advisor about the difference in charges that would need to be paid on AVC or FSAVC plans.
In the sales documentation Zurich has recorded that Mr P preferred the FSAVC option 
because of its flexibility. But it hasnt been able to provide anything further to explain what 
was meant by that preference. When the FSAVC plan was sold in 1996, its benefits needed 
to be taken at the same time as benefits were taken from the OPS. So there would be little 
difference to Mr P in when he could access his additional contributions whether they were 
placed in a FSAVC or AVC plan. And I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr P 
had any expectation of leaving the teaching profession and so perhaps think that the FSAVC 
plan might be more portable.
So on balance, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that it is likely that Zurich 
met what I consider to be its regulatory responsibilities when it advised Mr P to pay 
additional contributions into a FSAVC arrangement. And Im not persuaded that, had Mr P 
been given sufficient information about the charges difference between a FSAVC and AVC 
arrangement, there were other reasons why he might have chosen the FSAVC route. So 
I dont think he was treated fairly by Zurich, and so the firm needs to calculate whether Mr P 
has lost out.
Putting things right
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.  The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman