DRN-3234754
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed).
What happened
Mr B took out a car insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company online in August 2020.
Mr B made a claim for windscreen damage and Admiral arranged for Mr B to have the 
windscreen repaired/replaced by an agent. When Admiral received an invoice from the 
repairing agent, it couldnt trace Mr Bs car from the details provided. Further searches for 
his car details online led Admiral to discover that Mr Bs car had been heavily modified.
Admiral spoke with Mr B in December 2020 and discussed the modifications to his car. 
Having done so, it said Mr B had answered the question it asked about modifications 
incorrectly when he applied for the policy in August 2020. Admiral considered this to be a 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy. However, Admiral 
said it wouldnt look to recover the costs of the windscreen claim from Mr B. But as it 
classified the misrepresentation as reckless and it had met the claim, Admiral didnt refund 
the premium Mr B had paid so far under the policy.
Mr B had made a Subject Access Request to Admiral and was unhappy with the way 
Admiral reached its decision. He said when Admiral called him to discuss modifications, it 
told him it had relied on a report from the windscreen repairing agent  but there was no 
such report. Mr B provided Admiral with photos which he says show hed removed the 
modifications. He said hed felt tricked by Admiral during the call  but realised after 
checking dates that his car wasnt modified when he bought the policy in August 2020.
Admiral said its decision was correct  after reviewing the photos and based on Mr Bs 
admission the car had been modified in a phone call in December 2020. But it accepted it 
had incorrectly told Mr D it had got its information from the windscreen repair agent when 
this wasnt true. For its error, Admiral paid Mr B £25 compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld. Mr B 
explained that in the key call with Admiral, hed accepted that there were modifications to his 
car - as Admiral led him to believe it had a report from an expert which they were relying on 
identifying modifications. But Mr B said hed since provided Admiral with evidence the 
modifications had been removed from his car before he bought the policy. So Mr B said he 
hadnt misrepresented the information. And he was very unhappy with the way Admiral had 
dealt with the issue  he said the basis of their decision was incorrect. He found in their 
notes theyd commented on not having enough evidence to avoid the policy.
Mr B wanted Admiral to remove a record of the avoidance so that he didnt have to declare it 
to future insurers.
Our Investigator thought that Admirals decision based on what Mr B told it was initially 
reasonable. But from the information Mr B provided after this, she thought Mr B had shown 
the modifications had been removed before he bought the policy.
The Investigator found Mr Bs explanation as to why he said his car had been modified in the 
call was persuasive. Mr B told us he felt Admiral had put him on the spot and that if Admiral 
had a report from a repairer confirming his car was modified, he accepted their findings. Mr 
B said he felt tricked and took Admirals word for it. But after the call, he checked the history 
of the work hed done and the dates. He felt Admiral had acted unethically.
The Investigator recommended Admiral pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its decision and to remove any record of the avoidance so that Mr 
B didnt need to declare it to future insurers.
Admiral didnt agree. It says the information Mr B provided doesnt match the dates he says 
some of the modifications were removed. So it isnt satisfied Mr B has shown he didnt 
misrepresent the information when he bought the policy. It doesnt agree that Mr B would 
have been confused during the key call - as he was the one who had carried out the 
modification removals and would have known the condition of the car better than Admiral did 
at the time.
Admiral says it has agreed not to pursue Mr B for the costs to replace the windscreen and it 
hasnt passed Mr Bs details to any fraud sharing databases. But Mr B will need to declare to 
future insurers that hes had a policy avoided by a previous insurer if asked.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2021. I agreed that Admiral had incorrectly 
told Mr B the basis of its findings in a key call where modifications were discussed. But I 
didnt think this would have made a difference to the answers Mr B gave in the call. I found 
the information Mr B gave was detailed as to the work that had been done to the car to date. 
As Mr B had told Admiral there was no point in an engineer viewing his car because it had 
been modified, the opportunity for Admiral to arrange an inspection of his car wasnt followed 
up. And as Mr B confirmed his car had been modified in the call, I didnt think the onus was 
on Admiral to evidence the modifications, but for Mr B to evidence what hed said in the call 
wasnt correct. So I provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I thought Admiral 
had acted reasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided a letter from a garage which said it viewed his car in July 
2020 and all modifications had been removed. In summary Mr B says that Admiral coerced 
and deceived him into agreeing that his car had modifications in the call in December 2020. 
He says photos provided show the wheel arches were removed before the policy started. He 
doesnt believe Admiral should take into account comments on a forum from 2013  he isnt 
an expert on modifying cars. 
Mr B says hes been advised that the onus is on Admiral to show its decision to avoid his 
policy was correct  which he doesnt agree it has done. 
We forwarded the letter from the garage to Admiral. It says its decision remains unchanged 
and the letter is written 16 months after the garage viewed the car with no supporting 
evidence to back up what it says. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a 
policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral Insurance thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered no to his car having had any modifications when 
he bought the policy in August 2020.
There isnt a dispute as to how Mr B answered this question, or that the question 
wasnt clear. Mr Bs Policy Schedule highlights the following based on what Mr B told 
Admiral:
Modifications - None
(Anything which changes the makers standard specification or alters its 
performance including cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels body kits or any 
non-standard parts. If you have any queries please call us.
And Admirals policy provides a definition of the term Modifications as:
Any changes to your cars standard specification, including accessories and 
additional parts; optional extras and after-market alterations; trade related 
changes and parts. These include, but are not restricted to, cosmetic and/or 
performance changes or changes related to your business or profession.
Mr B says his car wasnt modified when he bought the policy. But Admiral says it was. 
So Ive looked at what information Admiral has relied on to reach its decision to avoid 
his policy.
Admiral upheld Mr Bs complaint that an agent told Mr B it had received a report from the 
windscreen repairer. This wasnt correct. For the error Admiral paid Mr B £25 
compensation.
However, Admiral relied on the information Mr B gave it when it rang him to discuss 
the modifications. Ive listened to this call.
Its clear  and Admiral doesnt dispute this  that the agent incorrectly told Mr B it had 
images taken by the windscreen repairer which had led to its investigation into whether 
Mr Bs car had modifications. This isnt where the information came from. The 
windscreen repairer didnt provide Admiral with any images of Mr Bs car. The 
investigation was prompted when Admiral received an invoice from the repairer. Admiral 
was unable to locate Mr Bs car under a standard search. It discovered the car had been 
previously heavily modified through a general online search. It found that Mr B had 
commented on online forums about modifying the vehicle shortly before he bought the 
policy in August 2020. This prompted Admiral to instruct an engineer to arrange an inspection of Mr Bs car.
I understand Mr B is very unhappy about Admirals error here. I agree that the origin of 
Admirals enquiries was not as the agent explained to Mr B. However, having carefully 
listened to the call, I dont think this made any difference to how Mr B answered the 
questions asked of him. In response to my provisional decision, Mr B says he was 
deceived into agreeing his car was modified in this call. But Mr B is the owner of the car 
and so was the person with the most knowledge about the modifications to it. He provided 
responses to Admirals questions about it and I think Mr B was fully engaged in the call. 
Hed received a call from an engineer the day before asking to arrange an inspection of 
his car. He had contacted Admiral to ask why - as Admiral failed to inform Mr B of the 
intended inspection before the engineer called him. Mr B received an explanatory email 
from Admiral shortly after the engineer had called him.
During the key call with Admiral, Mr B asked questions about the process, about the 
claim, and provided detailed answers about the history of the car and the work he had 
done to it since buying it.
Key points from this call are that Mr Bs car was previously a drag car used for racing and 
so had been heavily modified. When Mr B bought it in May 2020, it was a project car and 
Mr B was in the process of restoring it to its standard specification. Mr B confirmed that the 
fuel tank was not the original standard tank and Mr B was in the process of changing it. 
The wheel arches had been changed to allow larger wheels and this too hadnt yet been 
changed from the modification. Mr B said this was something he intended to put back. He 
advised that an after-market intercooler had been added and the exhaust would have to 
be after-market as Mr B won't be able to find a standard exhaust.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B says the wheel arches were removed to 
standard before he bought the policy. However, this isnt the only modification identified. 
Mr B says the aftermarket parts are not modifications, but standard parts. The letter 
provided by a garage says Mr Bs car had all modifications removed before the policy 
started. But the garage has provided no evidence to support what it says and the letter is 
written 16 months after it says it inspected the car. So I understand why Admiral says it 
cannot be relied upon. 
In the key call Mr B told Admiral there was little point in the car being inspected by an 
engineer due to the changes it had undergone and was still undergoing  his car had 
been modified.
The agent pointed out to Mr B that while he needed to tell it about any modifications when 
he bought the policy, he also needed to tell it about any intended modifications before they 
went ahead during the term of the policy. Admirals policy says under the section Keeping 
your policy up to date;
You must tell us before about any modifications to your car
And under its General Conditions, Admiral has a term which says Mr B must keep his car 
in a roadworthy condition.
At around eight minutes 40 seconds Mr B says, to be honest its going to be another 
few months before it gets even close to being a normal car.
The agent asked Mr B why he didnt get specialist insurance  as he noted that Mr B 
had owned the car for around six months before he insured it  and due to the amount 
of modification removal work involved. Mr B said it (Admirals policy) was cheaper  
and he wanted to insure the car against the risk of theft.Mr Bs car had been declared as off road with the DVLA and had no MOT. Mr B 
said he was going to tell Admiral about the modifications to the car but wanted to 
wait until it was finished and back on the road. At around 26 minutes Mr B said he 
was trying to source an original fuel tank.
I agree with Mr B that Admirals notes show it considered whether it had enough evidence 
to show his car had been modified when deciding to avoid his policy. But Admiral wasnt 
satisfied with the information Mr B provided after the key call  and it placed significant 
weight on the answers Mr B gave in this call when reaching its decision.
As Admiral wasnt able to trace Mr Bs car from the registration details, this led to its 
general online search where it was able to identify Mr Bs car. I dont think  from listening 
to the call - that the incorrect information about having a report from the repairer had an 
impact on the answers Mr B gave. In other words, I think if Admiral had correctly 
explained the origin of its discovery, I see no reason why Mr B wouldnt have provided the 
same answers. I appreciate that Mr B disagrees with me. He says he was influenced by 
Admiral in the comments he made. But having reconsidered this point, Im not persuaded 
that Mr B would have provided different answers to the ones he gave about the 
modifications to his car. And so I think the compensation Admiral paid Mr B of £25 for this 
error was fair and reasonable. 
I think its significant that - having given the answers he did - the opportunity for Admiral 
to arrange an inspection of his car wasnt followed up as Mr B accepted his car was 
modified in the call. As Mr B confirmed this, I dont think the onus was on Admiral to 
evidence the modifications, but for Mr B to evidence what hed said in the call wasnt 
correct.
After the call, Mr B  provided Admiral with screenshots and photos of the car which he 
says show he had removed all of the modifications before he bought the policy: that the 
roll bars had been removed, the modified suspension had been replaced with a standard 
suspension and a modified body kit had been replaced with a standard body kit. And in 
response to my provisional decision, photos of the wheel arches which he says were 
changed to standard before he bought the policy. 
Admiral said the photos showing the roll bar being removed wasnt clear. So we asked Mr 
B to provide a clearer photo date, which he did and which we forwarded to Admiral. This 
is recorded as being emailed by Mr B in May 2020  so before he bought his policy with 
Admiral. Admiral didnt respond.
Photos of Mr Bs car clearly show it wasnt roadworthy in July 2020. In the key call in 
December 2020, Mr B said when he bought the car it had no engine in it  hed bought a 
replacement engine to match the original one and fitted it about three weeks before. So 
this is an example of one of the modifications to Mr Bs car that wasnt returned to 
standard by the time he bought the policy in August 2020. Mr B said this was a project 
car. Admirals online searches show Mr B had previous experience of modifying cars as 
he commented on related forums as far back as 2013.
I think the photos Mr B has provided show that some modifications were removed from 
the car by August 2020. But even if Admiral accepts the roll bars and the wheel arches 
were removed before August 2020  I dont think the remaining information provided 
along with the key call is sufficient evidence to show that Mr B answered the question 
about modifications to his car with reasonable care. I dont think he has reasonably shown 
that his car had no modifications when he bought the policy in August 2020 or that he took 
reasonable care when he answered the question. The reason an insurer asks if a car has had any modifications is to be able to understand 
and decide the risk as to the value of the vehicle it is underwriting. The answers a 
consumer provides gives the insurer a representation of the condition of the vehicle to the 
insurer. From the information Mr B provided in December 2020, its clear that the car was 
on its way to being restored to a standard non modified version  but this isnt the 
condition it was in when Mr B insured it with Admiral in August 2020. And so the 
representation of the condition of Mr Bs car didnt reflect the risk Admiral believed it was 
undertaking when it offered Mr B a standard car insurance policy.
I now need to go on to consider whether Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation, namely whether it would have made a difference to what Admiral 
would have done had it known the correct information.
Admiral says if it had known Mr Bs car was modified it wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
Admiral has provided evidence from its underwriters to support its decision. Underwriting 
information is commercially sensitive and so cant be shared with customers. But we can 
ask an insurer to share it with us so we can see if an insurer has treated a customer fairly.
This means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Admiral has classified the misrepresentation as reckless. Admiral says Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was reckless because he was aware that his car was heavily 
modified when he took out the policy.
I agree that Mr Bs misrepresentation was reckless because I think from the phone call 
that Mr B knew his car was in the process of ongoing major modifications when he 
bought the policy.
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless Ive looked at 
the actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Admiral can decide to retain the premiums where it deems the misrepresentation to be 
reckless. And even if it could have offered a policy, it can choose to avoid it in these 
circumstances. In any event, where it has met a claim under the policy, Admiral is entitled 
to keep the years premium as its met its obligations under the policy. In this case, 
Admiral made the decision not to pursue Mr B for the costs of the replacement 
windscreen which it was entitled to do in these circumstances.
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, 
as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Admiral wasnt obliged to deal 
with his claim. As Admiral did deal with Mr Bs claim, I think it acted reasonably.
And as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I 
think allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Mr Bs policy produces a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
So Im not asking Admiral to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman