DRN-4149617
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the time taken by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) to progress the escape of 
water claim made on her home insurance claim. 
QIC are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company T. As QIC have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company 
T, in my decision, any reference to company T includes QIC.
What happened
In November 2022 Miss Cs home was affected by escape of water from the bathroom 
resulting in damage to her home. She contacted company T to register a claim. Company T 
sent a surveyor from company S to put together a scope of work to repair the damage. The 
surveyor sent their report to company T to authorise. 
In January 2023 Miss C contacted company T various times through the online portal in 
which her claim was being managed. Although Miss Cs questions about her claim were 
answered promptly, when questioning the timescale involved for the scope of work to be 
authorised, Miss C was informed we are experiencing a high influx of claims following the 
freeze at the end of last year and the ongoing weather conditions which is causing a delay. 
We will have this reviewed for you as soon as possible. 
In February 2023 the scope of work was authorised by company T. Miss C complained to 
company T about the time taken for this to happen. Company T said the delay was 
unavoidable because of what theyd already explained about experiencing a high influx of 
claims, and the ongoing weather conditions. 
Miss C was unhappy with QICs decision, and so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. The investigator found that there had been a delay 
but Miss C had been informed about the reason for this, and updates were provided about 
Miss Cs claim through the online portal. The investigator didnt recommend QIC do anything 
in settlement of Miss Cs complaint.   
Miss C didnt agree with the investigators findings saying that I called [company T]] approx 
20th Jan and the advisor also advised that it was the portal error and not weather related. 
Had I been told between the 16th Dec and 18th of Jan there was a delay due to weather, 
that would have been a valid reason. I wasn't. I was told due to a technical error, leading to 
frustration and stress.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings for this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Miss C but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Following instruction for Miss C claim, company T acted reasonably in sending its own 
surveyor to attend to Miss C property to complete an initial inspection of the damage. This 
was done within a reasonable timescale. Miss C was given the option to accept cash 
settlement which wouldve likely resulted in faster resolution of her claim, or instruct 
contractors to complete repairs. Miss T elected to have repairs completed by one of 
company Ts contractors. 
 
Ive seen that Miss C contacted company T in January 2023 asking about information 
relating to her claim, and for an update on authorisation of the scope of work. Miss C says 
she shouldve been advised sooner than 18 January 2023 that it was poor weather 
conditions resulting in an influx of claims, that was causing delays to the authorisation 
process.
Given the time of year of Miss Cs claim, (including several bank holidays), and the likely 
poor weather conditions, I think the update provided to Miss C in January 2023 was timely, 
and reasonable. The email of 18 January addressed the question of delays with reference to 
the weather conditions, and influx of claims, causing delays. Im persuaded the response 
provided was a true reflection of factors outside of QICs control at the time.
Ive also considered what Miss C has explained about errors on the portal causing delays to 
the claims process. Ive not seen evidence of this. But I accept that there may have been 
other issues that contributed to the overall timeliness of Miss Cs claim being progressed. 
I think the time taken to complete authorisation largely reflected the difficulties experienced 
by QIC because of factors outside of its control, and Miss C was reasonably made aware of 
this. There were reasonable updates provided through the portal, and all questions asked by 
Miss C in respect of her claim were answered promptly, and to Miss Cs satisfaction. 
Although frustrating for Miss C I dont think the delays on this claim caused a level of 
inconvenience and upset outside of what we would expect for a claim of this type.
For the reasons explained, I wont be asking QIC to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman