DRN-2599387
The complaint
Mr A complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to turn down his motor
insurance claim.
For ease of reading any reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with Admiral. A couple of months later he contacted
Admiral to claim on his policy. He said hed driven through some puddles which had caused
the car to judder and warning lights had appeared on the dashboard. He said hed then
driven the car about a mile away before driving it back home later that evening. Mr A said
there was water damage from driving through the puddles.
Admiral looked into Mr As claim and had the car sent to one of its repairers. After it had
been there about a week Mr A had his car moved to a repairer of his choice, who isnt one of
Admirals approved repairers. Admiral inspected Mr As car and had some concerns about
the claim.
Admirals investigation into the claim went on for some time and Mr A complained about the
length of time it was taking. As Admiral hadnt made a decision on the claim Mr A referred
his complaint here. One of our Investigators asked Admiral to make a decision on Mr As
claim as it had been going on for a long time. Admiral then turned down Mr As claim under
the fraud term in the policy. Admiral said Mr A said hed paid over £30,000 more for his
car than the receipt showed. It also said there were concerns about the garage Mr A said he
bought his car from and the reasons he couldnt get any more information about the
purchase.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained, but Admiral didnt change its position. As
Admiral didnt change its position Mr A referred his complaint here. He said he was suffering
with his health and this had caused him to become confused about details hed been asked
about the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 February 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say: We will not pay a claim which is in any part
fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or anyone acting for you makes a claim in a
fraudulent or false way, or where we have been given a false statement, or any documents
which are false or stolen. Your policy and all other policies to which you are connected
through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs that have
been incurred and will not return any premium.
Admiral has raised several concerns about the information Mr A gave when it tried to
validate his claim. In particular Mr A said he purchased his car from a garage for £65,000
when in fact hed bought it from a salvage yard for just over £30,000. When asked about this
discrepancy Mr A raised his health conditions which he said meant he was confused as to
whether hed bought it from the garage or the salvage agent. Hes said the garage had done
the repair work after hed bought it from the salvage agent. Mr A has also said the work
needed to repair the car after it was purchased from the salvage agent, came to around
£30,000 so he doesnt believe hes given incorrect information.
Ive considered Mr As reasons for giving incorrect information and I understand hes been
through a very difficult time. But Im not persuaded it means Admiral has done anything
wrong when declining his claim under this term. I say this because Mr A has maintained that
he cant provide the purchase information from the garage he originally said he bought his
car from, but then clarified did the repair work, as its no longer trading. However, the garage
Mr A said he bought his car from seems to have been dissolved over three years before Mr
A bought his car. The evidence Mr A has provided is a purchase receipt for his car from the
salvage agent, and while Mr A has described how much it would cost to repair the car when
he purchased it. Hes not provided any evidence to show it was repaired or how much he
spent having it repaired. So, Im not satisfied the value of £65,000 he gave is accurate
information. I think this is enough to say part of the claim is false or exaggerated.
I understand this issue has been going on for some time, but for the reasons above Im not
going to interfere with Admirals decision to turn down Mr As claim.
Admiral didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr A 
responded and disagreed with it. He said the garage hed taken his car to for repair was still 
open and operating when his car had been taken there and had been referred to in Admirals 
own reports. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr As response and Im satisfied that another business with a similar name 
operated at the same location, and by the same individual, as the limited company which 
dissolved a few years before. So, while I accept the confusion is likely down to the trading 
name being almost identical as the limited companys name, Im not persuaded this is 
enough lead me to depart from my provisional decision. 
I say this because I still dont think Mr A has provided enough to persuade me the valuation 
of £65,000 an accurate reflection of what he paid for his car. Mr A has only provided 
estimates of what it would have cost to repair his car after it was bought from the salvage 
yard and not what he paid to repair it. So, Im not satisfied this is what he paid for it or what it 
cost to repair. And as Im satisfied the valuation Mr A gave is enough to say part of his claim 
was exaggerated or false, Im not going to tell Admiral to do anything different. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman