DRN-3614868
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mrs B became aware of a transaction to a seller on a popular internet marketplace Ill refer to 
as G. The payment was handled by a separate financial business Ill refer to as J. Mrs B has 
an account with G and makes purchases with them.
Mrs B explained to Barclays that there was a purchase for an item that she hadnt made, and 
Barclays used a process called Chargeback to challenge the transaction. Chargebacks are a 
system operated by the payment channel used to make the payment  here VISA. They are 
subject to strict rules to how they operate and theres no absolute right to use the system, 
although we would expect it to be used if there was a reasonable chance of success.
Barclays provided a temporary refund to Mrs B whilst they looked into the claim. Barclays 
received a reply from J who provided information about the transaction, including details of 
the IP address associated with the location of the device used to make the transaction. This 
matched Mrs Bs usual IP address and was the same one that Barclays recorded when Mrs 
B used her internet banking. The information contained other details of the purchase and 
various other matching pieces of information, including the home address for Mrs B. J had 
defended their position and the information they provided required (under the Chargeback 
rules) a further response with evidence from Mrs B.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Barclays wrote to Mrs B and asked her to provide further information about the transaction 
with a 10-day time limit for a response. Hearing nothing back, Barclays closed the 
Chargeback enquiry and removed the temporary credit from her account.
Mrs B tried to provide evidence that the purchase was never delivered to her and pointed out 
differences in the delivery tracking information compared to that provided by J. Mrs B 
explained that she never received Barclays letter requesting further information. Mrs B 
complained to Barclays about what had happened, and Barclays carried out an investigation. 
Barclays then wrote to Mrs B declining her complaint. Mrs B was unhappy with how the 
complaint was handled and brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for and 
independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about 
the complaint. Mrs B provided details of the tracking delivery information and explained that 
the delivery address was different to her home address. 
Barclays provided details of how the transaction was made, Js response and other 
information about the complaint. After considering the information, our investigator didnt 
think that Barclays were at fault with how they handled the Chargeback and she also thought 
it was likely that Mrs B had authorised the transaction herself.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for a further review. Mrs B recognised that the IP address data 
matched her normal usage, but thought that because she didnt receive the goods, she 
should still receive a refund. Mrs B remarked that she would be disappointed if it turned out 
to be anyone else in her family responsible for the transaction. Mrs B explained that the 
delivery information showed the address to be a nearby hospital and she also thought the 
seller was a fraudster.
Mrs Bs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs B raised her complaint, it was on the basis that she hadnt authorised the 
transaction, not that there was a problem with the delivery. Thats an important distinction for 
how Barclays dealt with her original claim and for what considerations Ill make when 
reviewing the complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mrs B liable for the disputed payment if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made it or authorised it.
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs B authorised 
the transaction, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card details conclusively proves 
that the payment was authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transaction. It shows that the transaction was authenticated using the payment tools issued 
to Mrs B. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs B responsible for the disputed transaction or 
not.
J provided details of the transaction including payment information and delivery details. This 
information showed a consistent IP address was used to make the purchase which matched 
other non-disputed purchases made by Mrs B. The same IP address is registered by 
Barclays when Mrs B uses her online banking. 
Mrs B confirmed she hadnt given her card details to anyone else or access to her banking 
information, so its difficult to see how an unauthorised third party could have used her 
payment details from the same location that she normally uses. So, as far as the question of 
authorisation stands, I think its more likely than not that Mrs B was responsible for the 
transaction and it was reasonable for Barclays to hold her liable for it.
I appreciate Mrs B has shown that certain delivery details are different to that shown on Js 
paperwork, but the issue here, as Ive explained earlier, is related to the authorisation of the 
transaction rather than whether it was delivered. When Mrs B took her claim to Barclays, 
they dealt with it as a fraudulent transaction rather than a failure to deliver goods. The 
information they received back indicated Mrs B was likely responsible and to pursue it 
further, they needed additional evidence from her. I understand Mrs B says she didnt receive the letter, but theres no evidence of any failure from the postal services and my 
understanding is that earlier correspondence was sent to the same address.
The Chargeback system operates on strict timetables and certain requirements to provide 
information at each stage. Once the time for a response had elapsed, Barclays couldnt have 
then gone back to J using the Chargeback process. Thats why the temporary credit was 
removed because the evidence indicated Mrs B was responsible and Barclays had no 
further information with which to challenge the transaction.  
I do recognise that information obtained about the delivery is confusing, including some of 
the timings. I realise Mrs B thinks the seller was fraudster, but what the delivery evidence 
does show is that the item was delivered to an address nearby  rather than something that 
didnt exist. I cant know what actually went on with the delivery, but it doesnt affect the 
issue of authorisation. I dont think Barclays could reasonably have done more at the time 
and I wont be asking them to do anything more about the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman