DRN-2697465
The complaint
Ms S complaint relates to a pet insurance policy she held with Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited. She is unhappy that a claim made in 2020 has been declined on 
the basis that it is a pre-existing condition, which Ms S disputes. In addition, Ms S is 
unhappy with Red Sands handling of her complaint. 
What happened
In 2014 Ms S arranged a pet insurance policy for her dog on the internet. The policy had an 
annual limit of £7,000, a condition limit of £2,000 and cover for any condition was also time 
limited to 365 days from onset. 
The veterinary notes for 2018 and 2019 record:
3 May 2018EAR PROBLEMS
A week ago OR she had a funny turn  Her eyebrows started moving up and down and 
showed irregular jerking eye movements for 2-3 minutes and was a bit wobbly for a while.  
A couple of days ago O also noticed that ears were a bit smelly and that she was scratching 
ears a lot. 
c)ear exam:
r.ear: debris ++, both vertical/horizontal ear canals moderately erythermatous  TM intact.
l.ear: debris +++, Erythema + horizontal EC > Vertical. Not stenotic. TM intact.
10 May 2018 RECHECK EAR
O r head shaking has stopped. Little/no wax extruded from ears after cleaning now. No 
further neurological episodes ato
A: Otitis, some improvement
2 April 2019CONSULTATION: Off balance, otitis
O r [name] went off balance yesterday evening, her eyes were flicking from side to side and 
she was very wobbly on her feet, did not want kibble.
A: head tilt/nystagmus, vestibular? TIA/ middle ear disease due to otitis?
18 April 2019RECHECK EARS
OR most symptoms resolved however still tilting head to side, still sometimes loses balance 
when walking and keeps wide based stance. No further eye twitching, Rubbing L ear on 
floor. Finished ear cleaner yesterday. Eating less than usual. Toilet ok.
Both ears moderately inflame EAM, VEC, very itchy. Unable to visualise TM due to 
discomfort but no evidence of pus. Brown waxy discharge bilateral. No nystagmus (including 
retina check). Moderate head tilt to L side, mild body turn to L side but able to turn both 
directions. Advised lack of pus makes me thing middle ear infection less likely, O says has 
had vestibular episode in the past. Recommended cytology on ear swabs, [further 
medication] Recheck in a week to see if pruritus has improved to allow better visualisation of 
ear canal. Ini or worse may need to up management to steroids.
6 Nov 2019Possible Otitis Media
Had similar problem back in April which, ato, never seemed to get over this completely 
although got much better during the time she was on amoxi-clav adter the pyo. O noticed 
she started shaking her head a couple of days ago and the head tilt followed soon after. 
Shes also very uncomfortable with her ears and seems to be a bit wobbly. 
Details of the examination were recorded and medication was prescribed. The dog was to be 
re-examined after 5 days.
11 Nov 2019  RECHECK EARS
OR mild improvement, no further eye twitching, balance ok, keen on food, but struggling a 
little with water. No vomiting or diarrhoea. Head wobbly. 
Advised appears to be bilateral issue now causing alternating head tilt/wobbling. Ears both 
appear to have infection. Further treatment was prescribed.
On 10 January 2020 the vet consulted with a specialist vet about Ms Ss dogs treatment. 
When doing so he detailed that the dog was being treated for chronic bilateral otitis with 
head tilt.
In January 2020 Ms S vet requested pre-authorisation for treatment needed for the dogs 
ear problem. Red Sands declined as it considered the dog had suffered from the same 
condition in 2018 and 2019. As the policy only provided cover for any condition for a period 
of 365 days from the first symptoms, it declined the claim as it had been made outside the 
cover period. 
Ms S wasnt happy that the claim was declined and complained. Red Sands issued its 
response to the complaint. It said that the veterinary notes showed that the dog had been 
treated for ear problems and linked neurological symptoms in May 2018, April 2019 and 
November 2019. Red Sands concluded this showed a clear history of ear infections with 
neurological symptoms since May 18. As the policy only provided cover for 365 days from 
the onset of any condition, that timescale had expired before the pre-authorisation for a 
claim was made in January 2020. Therefore, there was no cover available. Red Sands went 
on to explain that once the timescale expired, an exclusion would be added to the policy for 
any ear problems, so any treatment beyond May 2019 wouldnt be covered. 
Ms S remained dissatisfied with Red Sands decision and explained that the 2018 and 2019 
problems were not the same. In 2018 there was no bacteria present and the dogs ear drums 
werent perforated. As such, she disagreed with Red Sands conclusion that it was the same 
condition. When Red Sands said it would consider its decision if Ms S provided further 
information, she arranged for a letter from her vet to be provided. It said: 
 I understand that the recent claim for otitis has been declined due to a previous episode 
of otitis in May 2018. The 2018 episode resolved clinically and [name] appeared to be 
symptom free until April 2019 when she had another episode. I appreciate that sometimes 
one episode of otitis can predispose to further episodes but it appears that the initial infection 
cleared and [name] was symptom free for almost a year before the symptoms recurred so 
these may in fact be regarded as separate episodes of otitis.Red Sands didnt reconsider its decision or provide a further response to the complaint, and 
Ms S asked this service to consider it. Red Sands has subsequently said that it didnt receive 
the letter from the vet.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  He was satisfied the veterinary evidence 
showed that the dog had a history of ear problems linked to neurological symptoms since 
May 2018. As that was the case, whether a claim was made for treatment or not, that would 
be considered the onset of the condition as far as the policy terms were concerned. This 
meant that the 365 day time limit for that condition started in May 2018. 
In addition, Red Sands underwriting criteria confirmed that where otitis had been diagnosed, 
an exclusion for all ear related conditions would have been placed on the policy a year after 
the original otitis symptoms were noticed. As such, even if the 2018 and 2019 ear problems 
werent linked, the exclusion would mean the treatment Ms S tried to claim for in 2020 
wouldnt have been covered. The investigator was satisfied that Red Sands hadnt acted 
inappropriately when it declined the claim, although its handling of her complaint could have 
been better, in that it didnt review its decision as it said it would. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and suggested that the way the policy was 
set up could indicate a wider problem with the insurance industry as a whole and the design 
of policies such as the one she had. She explained that she was having difficulty accepting 
the isolated incident in 2018 meant that any other future problem relating to her dogs ears 
would not be covered. She asked how she was meant to know that, as she didnt claim 
because the 2018 treatment cost was an insignificant amount. 
Ms S asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman because she didnt think 
insurers should be able to get out of paying claims so easily. She said it seemed too easy for 
an insurer to label something as a pre-existing condition and she wanted to contest the 
term condition as the first event had been treated by a simple course of antibiotics, whereas 
the episode in 2019 had involved much more extensive treatment.
Our investigator pointed out to Ms S that the policy required her to keep Red Sands 
up-to-date with any changes to her dogs health and so any changes could be taken into 
account by Red Sands. He also highlighted the description of the policy she had been 
provided with when she took the policy out  that it was a time limited policy and what that 
meant. As such, it wasnt unreasonable, a year on from the dog suffering from the first bout 
of otitis, Red Sands excluded ear conditions  ear mites, infections and otitis. He explained 
this wasnt unusual in policies such as the one Ms S had arranged. 
Ms S remained unhappy with the investigators conclusion and so the complaint has been 
referred to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S mentioned to us that she believes she should have been recommended to take out a 
lifetime pet insurance policy. This didnt form part of her complaint to Red Sands and so isnt 
a matter this service would become involved with at this stage. However, I would comment 
that an insurer is not obliged to provide advice and in this case, Ms S didnt ask for advice.
I would also confirm this services role is not to police the financial services industry, but 
rather to consider and resolve individual disputes between financial services providers and 
their customers. If Ms S is concerned about the concept of time limited insurance policies being sold, her concerns would more appropriately be directed to the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Red Sands declined to pre-authorise Ms S claim because it considered the condition the 
claim related to had started over a year before. Ms S disagrees with this and believes the 
2018 and 2019 conditions were completely separate. As such I have reviewed the veterinary 
evidence and the policy terms.
The veterinary notes confirm that all three periods of treatment, starting May 2018, April 
2019 and November 2019 respectively, were for otitis  ear infections. As Ms S policy is a 
time limited one, for which any condition can only be claimed for during a 365 day period 
from when first noticed, the condition limit for otitis would have started in May 2018 and 
ended before Ms S asked for pre-authorisation for treatment.
Even if the May 2018 and April 2019 occurrences of otitis could be shown not to be linked, 
Red Sands has confirmed that when the 365 day time limit on the first incidence of a 
condition has elapsed, it would have added an exclusion to the policy for ear problems; this 
would have excluded claims for further incidences of otitis.  Given the nature of the policy I 
dont consider excluding further occurrences of otitis would have been unreasonable or that 
it was unreasonable for the exclusion to be applied retrospectively when it became aware of 
the May 2018 treatment. 
I can understand why Ms S is disappointed that, despite having been unable to claim for the 
earlier treatment for ear infections because they were below the excess, she was excluded 
from claiming when the costs exceeded the policy excess. However, given the nature of the 
policy she chose, I cant find that Red Sands acted inappropriately when it declined to pay 
for the treatment from November 2019 onward.
Ms S is unhappy with Red Sands handling of her concerns. I note that it said it would 
consider further evidence, if Ms S vet wrote to it, but it then provided no further comment on 
her claim. Red Sands told us that whilst it had said this, it was said by someone who wasnt 
aware that it had already given its final response on the complaint. It has said it didnt get the 
further comments from the vet, and I cant be sure whether it did or not. In addition, Red 
Sands said that when it realised it had already given its final response to the complaint, it 
wouldnt have commented further. Unfortunately, it didnt communicate this to Ms S. 
However, whilst poorer customer service than Ms S should have received, I dont think there 
was any material effect on the outcome of the complaint or that it unduly delayed Ms S 
referring her complaint to this service.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 
10 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman