DRN-4047269
The complaint
Ms H complains that her bank Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund the 
money she has lost following her falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
After hearing from friends about Investing in cryptocurrency Ms H searched online for an 
investment of her own. Ms H came across a website she found interesting for the business 
IGFB (X) and filled in an online contact form.
Ms H was then contacted by X and it explained an investment opportunity to her. Persuaded 
by X Miss H started to make payments into the investments and as her profits grew, she 
made more and more payments as directed by X.
When Ms H tried to make a withdrawal from her investment, she was told she would have to 
make further payments first. Ms H made these payments, but her withdrawal request was 
still not processed.
Ms H made the following payments to X via cryptocurrency exchanges using her debit card: 
Date Merchant Amount 
28 July 2021 GPEU004 £213.96
5 August 2021 Moonpay £858.59
2 September 2021 Banxa Changel £800
7 September 2021 Guardarian £1,000
8 September 2021 Guardarian £3,000
9 September 2021 Guardarian £400
16 September 2021 CEX £2,182.52
17 September 2021 CEX £2,164.02
Ms H has been unable to recover any of the funds she lost to the scam.
Out Investigator considered Ms Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms H 
disagreed, she thought Santander should have done more to protect her from the scam.
As Mr H disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Ms H has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Ms H and Santander sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Santander should refund the money Ms H lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Ms H made
Ms H made payments to X via her debit card. Although Ms H didnt make these payments to 
X directly, instead she made the payments to various cryptocurrency exchanges. 
When payments are made by card the only recovery option Santander has is to request a 
chargeback. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms H was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Ms H didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges. 
This is important because Santander was only able to process chargeback claims against 
the merchants she paid, not another party (such as X).
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Ms Hs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Ms H paid. As the 
cryptocurrency exchanges provided the requested services to Ms H any chargeback attempt 
would likely fail.
Should Santander have reasonably prevented the payments Ms H made?
It has been accepted that Ms H authorised the payments that were made from her account 
with Santander, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Ms H is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Santander should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payments from being made.
The payments Ms H made into the scam were for relatively low amounts, on different dates, 
to what appear to be legitimate businesses. So, I wouldnt necessarily have expected any of 
the payments to have triggered Santanders fraud prevention systems.
However, on the 8 September 2021 one of the payments Ms H was making did trigger 
Santanders fraud prevention systems and a conversation between Ms H and a Santander 
representative took place. I have listened to a copy of this conversation.
The Santander representative asked Ms H questions designed to uncover potential scams. 
Ms H said that her partner had carried out all the required checks into the investment 
including looking at the FCA website.I think this is unlikely as there was a warning about X on the FCA website at the time Ms H 
was attempting to make this payment. I think if Ms H had carried out the checks explained by 
Santander its likely the scam would have been uncovered, and Ms H would not have made 
the payment.
Ms H also confirmed that she had decided on the amount she was sending to X. This was 
not the case as by the time Ms H was making this payment, she was being asked by X to 
cover tax and money laundering payments related to the profit she had made. So, X would 
have told her the amounts she had to send.
The Santander representative also warned Ms H not to make payments into an investment if 
the payment involved a third party or a broker. Ms H was dealing with X at the time she was 
making the payment which was a third party and taking directions from it. Yet Ms H did not 
tell Santander about this and continued with the payment.
The above information Ms H provided was incorrect and disguised the fact that she was 
being scammed at the time. With the information given by Ms H I think its reasonable that 
Santander did not pick up on the scam and prevent the payment Ms H was making.
It is possible that Santander could have stepped in and had other conversations with Ms H 
when she made other payments in relation to the scam. But I think its likely Ms H would have 
given similar answers as she did during the call above. 
With the above in mind, I dont think Santander missed an opportunity to step in and prevent 
the scam Ms H had fallen victim to. So, it is not responsible for any of the payments Ms H 
made and does not have to refund any of the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman