DRN-2253165
The complaint
Mr S complained that Society of Lloyds (SoL) acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining 
his claim under a landlords insurance policy for unpaid rent. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr S took out a landlords insurance policy with SoL. It offered legal expense cover to bring 
claims which had a reasonable prospect of success, both to win and enforce any judgment. 
A tenant left a property Mr S had rented out who hadnt paid all the rent due. Mr S made a 
claim under his policy, and it was considered by SoLs agents to see if legal assistance to 
pursue the tenant should be given. The panel solicitor advised that Mr S prospects of 
success were less than 51% and the claim was declined.
Mr S complained and felt errors within the solicitors report meant the assessment was 
wrong. He was also unhappy that SoLs agents wouldnt challenge the view of the panel 
solicitor and refused to continue to communicate with him. SoL said its agents had acted 
correctly and dealt with both the claim and Mr S complaint as required. The claims handling 
agent explained that the panel solicitor had tried to contact the tenants without success, 
which was part of the reason it had advised there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success 
in recovering the money. It said it had repeatedly dealt with Mr S concerns but unless he 
sent evidence which improved his position or got a second opinion at his own expense 
(which it would refund if the opinion was supportive of Mr S position), the matter was closed.
Mr S complained to this service. The investigators view was that SoL wasnt at fault. He said 
an insurer was able to rely on the legal advice it received when assessing a claim for legal 
assistance, provided the advice came from suitably qualified lawyers. The investigator 
thought that the panel solicitor was suitably qualified and as the policy required 51% 
prospect of success or more, SoL was acting fairly and reasonably in declining Mr S claim. 
He noted Mr S concerns with the legal advice, but said it wasnt for SoL or its agents to 
challenge the advice. The investigator said it was open to Mr S to pay for a second legal 
opinion and if it was supportive, the cost could be claimed from SoL.
Mr S disagreed. He repeated his earlier arguments and felt the agents had failed to 
challenge the panel solicitor. The investigator said it was fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to rely on legal advice and the way to challenge it was for Mr S to get his own legal opinion 
form elsewhere at his own cost. He noted that if there were obvious errors, the insurer or 
agent should challenge this, but there were none in Mr Ss case. Mr S provided copies of his 
emails with the panel solicitor; the investigator didnt change his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to SoL, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that SoL has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is what the policy itself covers. There appears to be no dispute between 
the parties that for Mr S claim to be accepted, it must be found to have a reasonable 
prospect of success (a greater than 50% chance as defined by the policy)  this includes a 
reasonable prospect of actually recovering the unpaid rent. This was the problem in Mr S 
case.
Insurers arent lawyers. It is fair and reasonable for insurers to rely on the advice of suitably 
qualified lawyers, as long as it isnt obviously incorrect to a layman, when deciding if a claim 
has reasonable prospects of success. Ive looked at the advice given by the panel solicitor. 
First, its from a law firm of solicitors, and the individuals involved are suitably qualified and 
supervised by a suitably qualified person. Critically, I cant see any obvious flaw in the advice 
which should reasonably be noticed by a layman. The panel solicitor took reasonable steps 
to trace the tenant and assess the financial position. The conclusions drawn arent obviously 
wrong.
Ive considered Mr S criticisms but they centre on his strong belief that the case should be 
taken to court and the risk of non-payment due to insolvency should be borne by the insurer, 
or to ask the tenants relatives to pay (which could be unlawful for a number of reasons). I 
also can see from the evidence available to me that the panel solicitor was asked by SoLs 
agent about the points raised by Mr S and its advice didnt change. It was explained to Mr S 
why the steps he wanted to be taken couldnt be taken lawfully by the claims handling agent. 
His concerns werent ignored.
When theres a dispute between an insurer and a policyholder about legal advice, it is 
standard industry practice for the insurer to tell the policyholder they can obtain a second 
opinion at their own cost and it will refund the cost if the second opinion supports the 
policyholder. This is because only another suitably qualified lawyer is in a position to 
challenge legal advice. I also note SoLs agent said if Mr S could provide material evidence, 
it could ask the panel solicitor if the position had changed. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
way forward and note both options remain available to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
5 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman