DRN-3825614
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly arranged for him to be provided 
with unaffordable loans. He says the appropriate checks werent carried out and this led to 
him being provided with unaffordable loans. 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr C being provided 
with a first loan in March 2017. The loan was for £6,000.00. Mr C settled this loan early with 
some of the proceeds from a second loan for £10,000.00 which Zopa arranged in November 
2017. Both of these loans had repayment terms of 36 months.
Zopa arranged a third loan for £16,000.00 in July 2018 and some of the proceeds from this 
loan settled the second loan. Finally, Zopa arranged a fourth loan in February 2019, which 
was for £24,000, and some of the proceeds from this loan were used to pay loan 3. Loans 3 
and 4 had 60-month terms.
Mr Cs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Zopa hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly when bringing about these loans. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for review.
  
My provisional decision of 11 November 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 11 November 2022 - setting out why I intended to 
partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I thought that there were three overarching 
questions that I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. 
These three overarching questions were:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable 
way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to 
do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Zopa ought reasonably to have realised Mr Cs indebtedness was 
being increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it 
shouldnt have arranged further loans?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started out by considering the first of these questions.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way? 
I explained that the rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought 
about these P2P agreements with Mr C required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loans in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to 
simply think about the likelihood of Mr C making payments, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Finally I then explained that there could also be other factors which could influence how 
detailed a proportionate check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
I then thought about all of the relevant factors in Mr Cs case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr C before 
arranging all of these loans. It said that it considered it did enough to establish that all of 
these loans were affordable. I went on to consider what Zopa did for each loan and the 
position at the respective times, individually.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £6,000.00, had an APR of 3.8% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
repayments of £176.54.
From what I could see Mr C was asked about details of annual income which he confirmed 
as £39,000.00, his residential status, to which he confirmed he was a homeowner and what 
he paid to his mortgage each month, which was £890. It looked like Zopa also carried out a 
credit check which showed that he had three credit cards, which were all well within their 
respective credit limits and an overdraft which wasnt being used either. 
So I thought it fair to say that the credit search carried out on Mr C showed that his existing 
credit commitments were well managed. I also understood that the purpose of this loan was 
recorded as debt consolidation and given this loan had a low APR of only 3.8% Mr C would 
save quite a bit on interest payments if he used the funds to clear his credit card balances 
and closed the accounts. 
I did accept that Zopa may not have asked Mr C for further information about his other 
household bills and expenditure. However, given what was left over from his monthly income 
once his mortgage payments and payments to existing credit commitments were deducted, I 
was satisfied that a detailed breakdown of Mr Cs non-credit related expenditure wasnt 
necessary here.  
So bearing in mind that Zopa obtained a reasonable amount of information on Mr Cs 
circumstances and there wasnt anything inconsistent in what was gathered, I was satisfied 
that it did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before bringing about loan 1 for   
Mr C. And given that these checks showed Mr C had sufficient disposable income to make 
the required payments, I was also satisfied that Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when 
bringing about loan 1 for Mr C.  
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for £10,000.00, had an APR of 2.8% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
repayments of £289.95. £4,73.02 of the funds from this loan went towards repaying the 
outstanding balance on loan 1. I thought that it was worth noting that loan 2 was taken out only a few months after loan 1. 
And from what I could see Zopa carried out similar checks to what it had done for loan 1.   
Mr C once again confirmed he had an annual salary of £39,000.00 and that he was a 
homeowner with mortgage payments of £890 a month. Zopas credit check also showed that 
Mr C still had three credit cards and an overdraft which wasnt being used. However, I also 
thought that what should have been clear to Zopa was the fact that the funds from loan 1 
werent used to clear the largest balance on Mr Cs credit cards  or if it was Mr C had 
subsequently run up a balance of almost £6,000.00 again. 
So while on the face of things, the credit search carried out on Mr C showed that his existing 
credit commitments were still being well managed, bearing in mind the circumstances, I 
thought that there were some emerging warning signs  Mr Cs outstanding credit card 
balance and him returning for a second loan so quickly  which Zopa ought to have noted. 
This was especially the case as the purpose of this loan was also recorded as debt 
consolidation. I did accept that this purpose may have been recorded because a significant 
proportion of the funds were going towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. But 
nonetheless I would have expected Zopa to have kept the emerging warning signs Id 
highlighted in mind should Mr C have returned for further lending. 
Once again, it appeared as though Zopa did not ask Mr C for further information about his 
other household bills and expenditure. However, given what was left over from his monthly 
income once his mortgage payments and payments to existing credit commitments were 
deducted, I remained satisfied that a detailed breakdown of Mr Cs non-credit related 
expenditure wasnt necessary here  especially as the monthly payments werent that much 
more than for loan 1.  
So bearing in mind Zopa obtained a reasonable amount of information on Mr Cs 
circumstances and while there were a couple of things to monitor going forwards, I was 
satisfied that it did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before bringing about loan 
2 for Mr C. And given that these checks showed Mr C had sufficient disposable income to 
make the required payments, I was also satisfied that Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when 
bringing about loan 2 for Mr C.  
Loan 3
Loan 3 was for £16,000.00, had an APR of 3.1% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
repayments of £288.18. £8,135.48 of the funds from this loan went towards repaying the 
outstanding balance on loan 2. 
Loan 3 was also only taken out only a few months after loan 2. And Zopa still only carried 
out similar checks to what it had done for loans 1 and 2. Mr C once again confirmed he had 
an annual salary of £39,000.00 and that he was a homeowner with mortgage payments of 
£890 a month. Zopas credit check also showed that Mr C still owed over £6,000.00 on credit 
cards despite having already been provided with two loans to consolidate his existing debts. 
I thought that our investigator had placed a great deal of weight on the fact that Mr C settled 
loan 1 as promised and that this meant it was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr C 
would consolidate his existing debts. But I didnt think that Mr Cs settlement of his earlier 
Zopa loan merited much consideration at this stage as Zopa would automatically have 
cleared the balance on loan 1 and only released the surplus funds from loan 2 when 
approving that loan. So I wasnt persuaded that loan 1 having been settled meant that Zopa 
was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr C would use this loan for the stated purpose of 
debt consolidation  especially as he hadnt appeared to have cleared his credit card 
balances. While I was satisfied that Mr Cs failure to have cleared his credit card balances at the time 
of loan 2 was a warning sign to have been monitored going forward, I thought that Mr Cs 
continuing credit card debt was a cause for concern by the time of loan 3. And in these 
circumstances, I was satisfied that it was no longer fair and reasonable for Zopa to assume         
Mr C had enough left over to meet his non-credit related living costs. 
In my view, Mr Cs increasing indebtedness ought to have prompted Zopa to have asked 
further questions about his living costs and regular non-credit related expenditure in order to 
have obtained an understanding of why Mr C hadnt proved able to clear his credit card 
debts despite having been provided with the funds to do so on more than one occasion. 
 
As there was no evidence that Zopa did find out more about Mr Cs circumstances, or that it 
asked Mr C to provide anything more than he had done for loans 1 and 2 despite him having 
applied for funds for a third time in just over a year, I set out that it was my intention to find 
that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
arranging loan 3 for Mr C.
Loan 4
Loan 4 was for £24,000.00, had an APR of 3.4% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
repayments of £435.39. £14,529.50 of the funds from this loan went towards repaying the 
outstanding balance on loan 3. 
The period between loan 3 and loan 4 was also less than the period between loan 3 and 
loan 2. And I also thought that Zopa ought to have been concerned that this was Mr Cs 
fourth loan in less than two years. Yet, other than taking further steps to ascertain Mr Cs 
income which showed it was less than had been declared, I couldnt see that Zopa did much 
more than what it had done before arranging loans 1, 2 and 3. 
Mr C once again confirmed he had an annual salary of £39,000.00. This time Zopas further 
checks showed he only actually earned £36,750.00 and he was a homeowner with mortgage 
payments of £890 a month. Zopas credit check also showed that Mr C now owed 
approaching £8,000.00 on his credit cards despite having been provided with significant 
funds to clear his existing debts. And yet Zopa still considered that it was fair and reasonable 
to assume Mr C had enough left over to meet his non-credit related living costs despite all of 
this. 
This was despite Zopas own records showing that Mr Cs debt to income ratio now stood at 
61.15%. It was my view that Mr Cs increasing indebtedness, over a short-period of time, 
ought to have caused Zopa concern. And not only should it have asked Mr C further 
questions about his living costs and regular non-credit related expenditure, I thought that 
Zopa now needed to take further steps to at the very least cross-check whatever Mr C said 
about his expenditure, like it did for his income. Zopa could have done this by asking for 
information such as bank statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information 
it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr C did have enough funds to be able to 
make the payments before it arranged this loan. 
 
As there was no evidence that Zopa did find out more about Mr Cs circumstances, or that it 
asked Mr C to provide much more than he had done for loans 1, 2 and 3 despite his, what 
on the face of things appeared to be, rapidly increasing indebtedness, I stated that it was my 
intention to find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before arranging loan 4 for Mr C.Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Zopa ought reasonably to have realised Mr Cs indebtedness was being increased in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have arranged further loans?
I then went on to explain that where a firm failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before arranging a loan or loans, Id usually go on to recreate reasonable and 
proportionate checks in order to get an indication of what such checks would more likely 
than not have shown. 
However, I didnt recreate individual, proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4 because I didnt 
think that it was necessary to do so. I explained that this was the case because in addition to 
assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan arranged for Mr C by Zopa, I also 
considered it is fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what 
unfolded during the course of Mr Cs history with Zopa. 
I was mindful here that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear that a firm shouldnt 
continue arranging further lending where the loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful 
and/or it was apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial difficulties.
And I thought that by loan three, Zopa ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that      
Mr Cs financial position was such that further loans were simply unsustainable for him. I had 
already set out most of the reasons for this in the section on why I didnt think that Zopas 
checks, for these loans, were reasonable and proportionate. But the factors which lead me 
to conclude that Zopa ought fairly and reasonably to have realised loans three and four were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful were:
Mr Cs outstanding debt on revolving credit accounts, which hed supposedly taken 
loans 1 and 2 to clear. Mr Cs persistent revolving credit indebtedness despite having 
been advanced at least £10,000.00, in new funds, prior to loan three ought to have 
been concerning.
the balances on Mr Cs revolving credit accounts had increased to their highest ever 
amount by the time of loan 4 despite the further funds provided for loan 3.
Mr Cs debt to income ratio was increasing. At the time of loan 3 Mr Cs debt to 
income ratio was 38.05% and when loan 4 was provided this climbed further to 
61.15%. This is in itself was arguably unsustainable.
In my view, all of the above were clear indicators of Mr C being in a deteriorating financial 
position. I thought that Zopa may have gone on to argue that Mr C had a good repayment 
record and this justified arranging the further loans. But I thought that this ignored the fact 
that Mr C settled loans 1,2 and 3 with funds from further loans. And bearing in mind Zopas 
obligation to monitor Mr Cs repayment record and offer assistance should it appear that he 
mightve been experiencing financial difficulties, which borrowing further to repay normally 
indicates, I thought that Zopa shouldve offered assistance and/or a product that would allow 
him to sustainably repay what he owed. 
But instead of doing this, Zopa consolidated Mr Cs borrowing into further loans for even 
larger amounts. Indeed Mr C started out with a loan requiring 36 monthly payments of 
around £176 in March 2017. At this time including his prospective Zopa loan, Mr Cs total 
outstanding debt liabilities were around £12,100.00. 
By comparison, at the time of loan 4, just over two years later, Mr C was required to make 
payments of around £435 for another five years. Mr Cs total outstanding debt liability was 
also approaching £32,000.00. And this was despite Mr C having already made payments of almost £5,200.00 (not including what was repaid with later loans) to Zopa in the two years 
from March 2017. I considered that this all indicated a rapid and unsustainable growth.  
 
I was also concerned about the effect consolidating loans 2 and 3 into loans 3 and 4 
respectively had on the overall costs Mr C had to repay. Mr Cs loans will have followed a 
typical amortisation schedule. In the early stages of the loan a significant proportion of        
Mr Cs monthly payments were going towards repaying the accrued interest. And as loans 2 
and 3 were settled within months of being provided (with the proceeds from new loans), a 
significant proportion of his monthly payments would have repaid interest rather than 
reduced his balance. 
Furthermore, the interest rate on loan 3 was higher than on loan 2. And the interest rate on 
loan 4 was higher than on loan 3. So Zopas consolidation of Mr Cs balances on previous 
loans in this way meant that he would pay more in interest even leaving aside the fact that 
the amortisation schedule  for Mr Cs existing outstanding balance - would reset or restart 
each time a consolidation loan was provided. And not only did Mr C owe Zopa more after he 
was provided loan 4, he also needed to repay this at a higher rate of interest.  
In my view, Mr Cs repayment record and Zopa granting further loans moved Mr C further 
and further away from the eventual debt-free position consolidation loans were, in theory at 
least, supposed to leave a borrower at the end.
Overall and having considered everything, I set out that it was my intention to issue a final 
decision finding that Zopa ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loans 3 and 4 
were unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr C and unfairly and excessively increased his 
overall indebtedness. As this was the case, this left me intending to issue a final decision 
finding that Zopa failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr C when bringing about loans 
3 and 4 for him.   
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
I carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, I hadnt seen anything that 
led me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.  
So I explained that I wasnt intending to find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr C in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out in my 
provisional decision, I set out that I was intending to issue a final decision finding that Zopa:
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself that he 
was able to repay loans 1 and 2 and that it made fair and reasonable decisions to 
arrange these loans; 
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself that he 
was able to repay loans 3 and 4;
ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loans 3 and 4 were unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr C and so shouldnt have been arranged as they would more 
likely than not unfairly and excessively increased his overall indebtedness;
didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.The above findings meant that I intended to issue a final decision finding that Zopa unfairly 
and unreasonably brought about loans 3 and 4 for Mr C in July 2018 and February 2019 and 
that it needed put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zopa confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr C confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and that he had nothing further to 
add either.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. And in particular Im 
pleased to see that the parties have accepted my findings. 
As the parties have agreed with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and in it I 
set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. And I remain satisfied 
that Zopa needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case for Zopa to put things right for Mr C in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on loan 3;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest, fees and charges for 
loan 3 from the date they were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £24,000.00 
originally lent. Zopa should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr C. If an outstanding balance remains on loan 4 after these adjustments, Zopa can 
use the compensation due for loan 3 to reduce and clear this balance.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of loan 3. 
And if no outstanding balance remains on loan 4 after all adjustments have been 
made any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of loan 4 
should also be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made (including offsetting the compensation 
for loan 3) an outstanding balance remains on loan 4, Zopa should set up an affordable 
payment plan for Mr C. Id also remind Zopa of its obligation to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the account, and its the case that Mr C is experiencing 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Zopa Limited should 
put things right for Mr C in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman