The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Studio Retail Limited dealt with an account that was opened 
and used fraudulently in his name. 
What happened
An account was opened with Studio Retail in Mr Ps name in 2014. The personal details 
provided seemingly matched those on his credit file; parcels were delivered to him at his 
address; as were statements; and a letter was received supposedly from Mr P in 2015 
explaining a change in his circumstances. So Studio Retail didnt doubt that it was Mr Ps 
account. And, after non-payment of bills, the account was sold on to a debt collection agency 
in August 2015.
In 2018, after he was contacted by the debt collection agency, Mr P raised concerns with 
Studio Retail. He hadnt been aware of the account, having not opened it or used it himself. 
Studio Retail asked Mr P to contact the relevant authorities. But Mr P didnt feel comfortable 
doing this, so Studio Retail didnt initially treat the account as fraudulent. 
After a further review, having been made aware of the full circumstances, Studio Retail 
accepted that it was unlikely that Mr P had opened or used the account. It closed the 
account, registered it as identity theft on its system, removed all traces of the account from 
Mr Ps credit file and offered £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr P doesnt feel £75 is enough for what went wrong here. He said there were several 
knock-on effects as a result of this matter, including being hospitalised and nearly evicted. 
And he thinks more should be done. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She recognised the impact this situation had had 
on Mr P but didnt think Studio Retail was responsible for it. So she didnt think it needed to 
do anything further. But as Mr P disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr P, I wont be asking Studio Retail to 
award any further compensation  Ill explain why. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont doubt how stressful this situation was for Mr P. Im 
sorry to hear about what hes been through. But, in deciding this complaint, Ive thought 
about what, if anything, Studio Retail did wrong. And, given that the main details of the 
account matched his credit file, parcels and statements were going to Mr Ps address etc. I 
DRN-1321269dont think I can fairly say that Studio Retail shouldve known the account was set up, and 
being used, fraudulently. 
So Ive thought next about whether Studio Retail acted correctly when Mr P made it aware 
there was an issue. Its important to note that its for a business to decide what internal 
processes and regulatory procedures it has in place. This generally isnt something with 
which our service would interfere. But, on the face of it, it doesnt seem unreasonable for 
Studio Retail to have expected Mr P to report the individual who committed fraud to the 
relevant authorities, given that he knew who it was. So I can see why Studio Retail didnt 
initially treat this as identity fraud.  
Since Studio Retail became aware of the full circumstances, I think its done everything it 
could reasonably have been expected to. It wiped the debt, removed all traces from the 
credit file and offered £75 for the trouble and upset caused. I really want to emphasise that I 
recognise how stressful this situation has been for Mr P. But I dont think this is because of 
what Studio Retail has done. So I dont think it would be fair to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman