DRN-3211207
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
  
What happened
Mr A was given 2 loans by Bamboo. The details of these are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment
1 03/03/2017 £1500 12 months £154.47
2 17/12/2019 £6000 60 months £223.30
Mr A paid off loan 1 in March 2018 and then applied for loan 2 around 21 months later. 
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. The first was in May 2021 and then a 
second in November 2021. Both parties have received copies of the provisional decisions, 
but for completeness I include an extract from the two decisions below.
Provisional Decision from May 2021:
Loan 1
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr A before it agreed to loan 1 in March 2017. It 
asked him for details of his income and his normal housing costs. It then checked Mr As 
credit file to determine how much he was paying to other lenders. It also verified his income 
by asking for a payslip and it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to determine how 
much Mr A would more likely spend on living expenses. 
I think it is right that Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about Mr As financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that 
the checks it did achieved that aim. Im currently minded to think that its checks for loan 1 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Bamboo gathered from Mr A to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be given 
this loan.
Mr A says his level of income at this time was £1845 and this was verified by Bamboo. It 
also recorded down a rent payment of £100 (as he was living at home), credit commitments 
of £297 and arrived at an estimated figure for living expenses of £397. It then calculated Mr 
As disposable income as £1069 before it took into consideration the repayment from loan 1. 
I can see the credit search that it conducted at this time and there is nothing in it that ought 
to have caused Bamboo any concerns. When I look at the credit search results and also 
Bamboos assessment, I think on balance, it made a fair lending decision. The loan looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr A.
Loan 2
Mr A repaid loan 1 early in March 2018. It wasnt for another 21 months that he contacted 
Bamboo again to ask for his second loan. This was for a larger amount this time and he was 
also asking to repay over a significantly longer amount of time. Bamboo says it conducted 
similar checks. It recorded down Mr As income, normal housing costs and asked Mr A about 
his credit commitments. It also carried out a credit check. On the surface of it, with the 
information Bamboo had in front of it, I can see how it would think the loan was affordable for 
Mr A based on the information it had gathered. But I dont think the checks it carried out 
when Mr A applied for loan 2 were proportionate.
Mr A was looking to consolidate debt and was asking for a lot more than he had asked for 
when he applied for loan 1. I would have at this stage expected Bamboo to conduct a 
complete review of Mr As finances to ascertain whether he would be able to sustainably 
make the repayments over the 60 months loan term. So, I think, as well as verify Mr As 
income, Bamboo should have also looked to verify his expenditure too. This is so it could 
assure itself of Mr As true financial position and that he could make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
In addition, it wouldve seen from the credit search that it carried out that Mr A had missed a 
payment on a loan and had been in arrears with this for around six months. So, I think at this 
stage, it ought to have wanted to assure itself that Mr A could meet the repayments over the 
relatively long term of the loan in a sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did carry out the further checks that I have described above for loan 2, 
I need to consider what it would have seen if it had. 
Our investigator has recently asked Mr A through his representatives, to provide bank 
statements from around the time he applied for loan 2. Im not suggesting here that this is 
the check that Bamboo should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements over 
a period such as three months would give me the best picture of what the lender should 
have seen.
Mr A has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around 
when he took out loan 2 though. So, I havent been able to see what Bamboo would have 
most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am unable to safely 
conclude that Mr A was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Provisional Decision from November 2021:
Neither party has disputed my findings for loan 1, so I wont look into this loan again 
other than to repeat the conclusion I made in my first provisional decision. That is that I 
am currently minded to think that the checks Bamboo made for loan 1 were proportionate 
and it made a fair lending decision.
I also drew the conclusion in my first provisional decision, that Bamboo hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 2. I said this because I could see that Mr A 
was asking for a lot more capital, the loan was scheduled to be over a much longer term 
and I felt at this stage that Bamboo should have been looking to verify Mr As expenditure 
to assure itself that he could make the loan repayments in a sustainable way.
So, I needed to go on to see what, on balance, Bamboo would have seen if it had carried 
out further checks. Initially, when our service asked Mr A for copies of his bank statements, he was unable to provide them to us. So, I concluded that I was unable to 
safely conclude that Mr A was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. This is because 
I was unable to see what Bamboo more likely would have seen if it had carried out further 
checks.
Mr A has now submitted bank statements to our service. These are from several weeks 
before loan 2 was granted and gives me a good idea as to what would have most likely 
been uncovered. I have in particular looked at a months worth of transactions leading up 
to the granting of loan 2 from 17/11/19 to 17/12/19. In doing this, I can see that Mr A was 
heavily using short term credit. In the month leading up to the loan application, Mr As 
bank statement revealed 8 short term loans either with money being paid in or a 
repayment going out. These transactions, all with different finance providers were shown 
on 18/11/2019, 18/11/2019, 25/11/2019, 2/12/2019, 05/12/2019, 12/12/2019 and 
13/12/2019. It is clear to me when I see this and the statements in general that Mr A was 
taking short term loans to repay his existing credit commitments. He was having problems 
managing his finances. On balance, I dont think Mr A wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay loan 2 without taking out further credit. I think if Bamboo had carried out 
further checks, it wouldve seen this and wouldnt have agreed to lend to him. So, for this 
reason, I currently uphold Mr As complaint about loan 2.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my second provisional decision issued in November 2021. Bamboo responded on 18 
November 2021 and said it had no further comments to make. Mr A responded on 23 
November 2021 and said he was happy with the decision. He had no further comments 
to add either.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have nothing further to add. So, as this is the case, I dont see any reason to 
depart from my findings within my second provisional decision. With that being the case, I 
uphold Mr As complaint. 
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for Bamboo to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr A made, direct to Bamboo, should be deducted from the new starting 
balance  the £6,000.00 originally lent. 
If Mr A has already repaid more than £6,000.00 then Bamboo should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr A;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr A to the date of settlement
If the amount repaid is less than £6000.00 then both parties should look to agree a 
payment plan. I would like to remind Bamboo of its obligation to exercise forbearance 
when it does this. HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things 
right as I have described above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman