DRN-3032085
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aldermore Bank Plc treated her unfairly in relation to her mortgage. 
Specifically, she says that Aldermore declined her request for a loyalty rate and is currently 
charging her an unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgage account. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a mortgage with Aldermore in 2015. Later she asked for further borrowing, 
but Aldermore declined this. So Mrs B approached other lenders and asked Aldermore to 
agree for a second charge to be recorded against the property. As Aldermore didnt agree to 
this, Mrs B says she was left trapped paying high monthly payments to another lender. 
Shes raised complaints with Aldermore since 2016. Its responded in four separate final 
response letters, which each provided rights to refer the matter to this service, within six 
months.
Aldermore didnt give us consent to consider the complaint as it said it was made out of time 
I issued a decision which set out that this service could not consider part of Mrs Bs 
complaint but that we could consider her complaint that Aldermore declined her request for a 
loyalty rate and is charging her an unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgage, as that had 
been referred to this service within the relevant timeframes. 
Our investigator considered this part of the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She thought that as payments had been missed on the account, Aldermore hadnt treated 
her unfairly by not agreeing to a new rate. She also didnt think that the interest charged on 
her mortgage account was unfairly high. 
Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B complains that Aldermore are charging too high a rate of interest on her mortgage. 
Ive looked at the terms set out in Mrs Bs mortgage offer, which she agreed to when she 
took the mortgage out in 2015. This explained that an initial interest rate of 5.08% would 
apply for the first three years. After this, interest would be charged at The Aldermore 
Managed Rate (the standard variable rate  SVR) for the remaining term of the mortgage. 
Im satisfied that the mortgage offer explained how interest would be charged and that this 
has been applied in line with the original terms. 
Turning to the level of the SVR changed, I can see that it is broadly in line with comparable 
rates charged by other lenders in the market. Aldermore also explained in its final response 
letter of 2020 that following a recent reduction to the Bank of England Base Rate, the SVR 
reduced to 5.33%. And so Im not persuaded that Aldermore has charged Mrs B an unfairly 
high rate of interest. 
From the information available to me, I cant see that Mrs B asked Aldermore for a new rate 
prior to the request in 2020. Pro-actively contacting borrowers about other interest rates that 
may have been available to them is not something lenders were required to do by the 
regulator. And so, I dont think Aldermore has treated Mrs B unfairly in this regard. 
Mrs B asked for a new rate to lower her monthly mortgage payments in April 2020 and says 
Aldermore unfairly declined this due to recent missed payments. She says these only 
happened as she was left stuck making repayments to a bridging loan because Aldermore 
refused to agree for a second charge to be placed on the property. 
Aldermore has told us that for a borrower to be eligible for a new rate, there can be no more 
than one missed payment to the account in the twelve-month period prior to a request.
From the information Ive seen, Mrs B unfortunately missed payments in September and 
November 2019. Ive listened to the call in August 2019 when Mrs B asked to change her 
payment date to later in the month. Aldermore explained that this change could not be made 
in time but placed a hold on the account for the month, with the agreement that a manual 
payment could be made on the date that Mrs B requested. From the evidence Ive seen, I 
cant see that this was made. And whilst a payment was made in October 2019, the 
November 2019 payment was also missed. 
And so two missed payments were showing on the account, within the previous 12 month 
period at the time that Mrs B asked for a lower rate. 
Whilst its generally reasonable for lenders to set their own eligibility criteria for those they 
wish to offer the best deals to, Ive thought about whether the banks application of that 
criteria here has led to unfair treatment of Mrs B, taking account of her individual 
circumstances. 
Although a lower interest rate would help make the mortgage payments more affordable for 
Mrs B, its also important to consider whether its in her best interests to tie her into a rate 
which may have financial implications if the mortgage needed to be exited before the fixed 
rate ended  such as an early repayment charge (ERC). Im aware that Aldermores interest 
rate products came with an ERC (other than the SVR that Mrs Bs mortgage was on). 
Here, I cant see that Aldermore conducted a full assessment of Mrs Bs financial position  
including her income and expenditure  prior to declining her request. And so there is limited 
information about her wider financial circumstances and ability to maintain mortgage 
payments, even if these were on a lower rate. 
But from the information available, Mrs B has said that shes only missed payments due to 
her commitments elsewhere. And whilst I understand that she remains frustrated that 
Aldermore didnt agree to further borrowing, she has ultimately sought borrowing elsewhere - 
the repayments of which need to be made.
Aldermore has told us that Mrs Bs other lender informed them that the account was in 
arrears, and that it was actively pursuing Mrs B to pay these. It has said that even if there 
were no missed payments on the account, it would have considered this when deciding if 
Mrs B should be eligible for a new rate. 
Whilst I dont consider this alone should have been a deciding factor in declining the rate, it 
does appear that Mrs B was experiencing some wider financial difficulties at the time as she 
was unable to meet her loan repayments. And considering the missed payments on her mortgage, and the other loan falling into 
arrears, if Mrs B missed further payments or found herself unable to maintain the mortgage, 
she could have been in a worse position by being charged a large fee to exit the mortgage 
early if she needed to. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate that things have been difficult for Mrs B, Im not persuaded that, 
based on the information available at the time, it would have been in her best interests to be 
tied into an arrangement that she ultimately may have struggled to afford. 
But bearing in mind the time thats passed since Mrs B asked for a new rate, circumstances 
may have changed and I would encourage both parties to conduct a full review of the 
situation  including assessing Mrs Bs income and expenditure - in order to see if Aldermore 
may be able to offer her a new rate or do something to help lower her payments  for 
example by considering a term extension or making a plan to repay any arrears. 
If, at this point, Mrs B remains unhappy with the assistance Aldermore is able to offer, she 
could raise a new complaint about this.  
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, Im not satisfied that Aldermore 
has treated her unfairly under the scope of this complaint. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman