DRN-2912708
The complaint
Mr F complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) have declined his Marine Insurance 
claim.
Mr F is represented in his claim by Mr F2  so I may refer to him below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F2 has provided a detailed submission to support Mr Fs complaint, 
I want to assure him Ive read and considered everything hes said carefully - including what 
hes told me about Mr Fs mental health. However, my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not all the points raised. I dont mean this as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F2, and 
by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
RSAs surveyor concluded the raw water pump failed having come to the end of its 
serviceable life  and this is what led to the boat sinking
RSA declined the claim under an exclusion relating to wear and tear. It also pointed 
out a general condition of the policy was the vessel be maintained and kept in a 
proper state of repair and seaworthiness
Seaworthiness is defined in the policy as:
Your Vessel and her Hull, Machinery and Equipment is maintained in such condition 
that the Vessel is able to manage the perils of the seas, and other areas of operation, 
and is at all times suitably moored, equipped and provisioned
Maintenance and proper state of repair are not defined in the policy, but I dont think 
either of these are onerous. Theyre standard terms used in most policies and 
bearing in mind the definition of seaworthiness and the general dictionary definition of 
maintenance, I think the policy condition is reasonably clear of what is required of the 
customer
The policy says it doesnt cover wear and tear, deterioration and depreciation from 
use or breakdown of the Hull, Machinery and Equipment. The policy also defines the 
Hull, Machinery and Equipment to include, but limited to:
the hull, machinery, main/auxiliary engines, outboard motors, gear, gearbox, 
starter motors, alternators,
electrical and mechanical equipment, cables, fittings, hydraulics, piping and fittings, 
boilers, shafts/propellers, exhaust, generators, air
conditioning systems, pumps, tanks, water makers sails and rigging, that are 
specified that are part of the original purchase of the Vessel
A report and supplementary report were prepared by the surveyor. Both were 
extensively detailed and include photographs to support their opinion. I can see the 
surveyor also has significant experience in the area of marine craft. Ive not seen any 
other expert opinions that contradict what theyve said. So Im not persuaded what 
theyve said is obviously wrong
Mr F2 has made alternative suggestions of how the boat came to sink  such as it 
was maliciously damaged. But Ive not seen any information that supports this was 
the case., So Im not persuaded by this
Mr F2 referred to RSAs Surveyors comments regarding manufacturers guidance 
around changing parts every 12 months. He says this is specialist knowledge and not 
in contemplation of a reasonable policyholder, so should have been made clearer by 
RSA in the policy wording if it was such a vital part of the policy
Any type of vehicle/vessel is subject to forms of servicing and maintenance. But it 
isnt usual, nor would I reasonably expect, every part of a vehicle or vessel to be 
detailed or explained in a policy  and I dont consider this to be a requirement here.
The relevant point is RSAs surveyor has ultimately concluded, in detail, including 
photographic evidence to support their opinion, the boat sank due to a part failing, as 
a result of reaching the end of its serviceable life. Mr F2 said Mr F lost a lot of the 
service history in the sinking, which Im sorry to hear, but Ive nothing to persuade me 
the opinion of RSAs surveyor is obviously wrong. So I dont think RSA have applied 
the exclusion unfairly  and I do not intend to interfere with its decision to decline Mr 
Fs claim.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman