DRN-3106132
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund an early repayment charge 
(ERC) that they understood would be refunded if they took out a new mortgage with the 
bank.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with HSBC with a fixed interest rate product of 1.54% which 
expired on 31 October 2021 and an ERC which was payable if the mortgage was redeemed 
before then. The ERC could be avoided if the mortgage product was ported. Mr and Mrs P 
sold their property in February 2021 redeeming their mortgage and paying an ERC of 
£2,175.23. At that time, Mr and Mrs P got a redemption letter from HSBC which had a 
section on a possible refund of the ERC which read as follows:
From this Mr and Mrs P understood that if they got a new HSBC mortgage the ERC would 
be refunded if the new mortgage was on similar terms to the old one. Mr and Mrs P bought a 
new property in June 2021 with a HSBC mortgage organised through a broker and a 
mortgage product with fixed interest rate of 2.89% until August 2023. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
mention the previous HSBC mortgage to the broker but expected a refund of the ERC. 
HSBC said that as Mr and Mrs P new mortgage product has different interest rates and 
different terms and as they didnt port their old mortgage product that they wont get a 
refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld as she thought that 
the letter from HSBC was clear and if there was any ambiguity Mr and Mrs P should have 
checked with either the bank or the broker to clarify. Mr and Mrs P disagree and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with HSBC with a fixed rate mortgage product which like most 
fixed rate products attracts an ERC if redeemed before the expiry of the term. The ERC can 
be avoided if the mortgage product  which will have a remaining balance, interest rate and 
remaining term is transferred to the mortgage on the new property and the new loan is 
drawn down and used to buy the new property within six months of the date that the ERC 
was paid. 
Now Mr and Mrs P although they borrowed money within the six month period didnt borrow 
the money at the same interest rate for the same term but at a higher rate for a longer period 
than the original product period. That would seem to deprive them of the possibility of a 
refund under the applicable terms and conditions as it wouldnt involve porting the existing 
mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs P as I understand it say that they were unaware that they could port the 
mortgage product. They paid the ERC. Then they got the letter from HSBC and understood 
from that that they would get the ERC refunded if they met what they understood to be the 
conditions of the letter. These were that they got a mortgage from HSBC which was for at 
least the same amount, at least the same fixed rate and for at least the same term as the 
previous borrowing. HSBCs would say that the least only applies to the borrowing and to 
comply with porting it requires  and according to HSBC the letter says  that the interest 
rate and term of the product are the same as with the previous mortgage.
As Mr and Mrs P say they were unaware that they could port the mortgage, they didnt 
connect the letter with porting - it doesnt mention it - but say that when they read the letter 
they saw it as an inducement to take out a mortgage with HSBC. They thought that they 
qualified as the new mortgage was of a bigger amount, a higher interest rate and a longer 
term than the earlier one. But significantly although Mr and Mrs P had, as they understood it, 
a letter of inducement which made a possible new mortgage with HSBC attractive, they 
failed to mention it to their broker from whom they sought advice about a new mortgage.
I have a difficulty with Mr and Mrs Ps evidence at this point. A brokers role is to advise on 
the most suitable mortgage for Mr and Mrs P among a range of possible lenders. Mr and Mrs 
P say they understood that if they went with HSBC they would get more than £2,000 back. 
So, Mr and Mrs P would have had a bias towards HSBC because of that. Surely, its highly 
likely that this would have been mentioned to the broker if indeed Mr and Mrs P believed that 
this was what the letter said. There was no point in having the letter and not tell the broker, 
who was sourcing a mortgage, that they hoped to get over £2,000 from HSBC if the broker 
recommended HSBC. I accept that the letter may be subject to different interpretations as Mr 
and Mrs Ps evidence has shown and has to be looked at in its context. But it seems to me 
that in this context that if Mr and Mrs P thought the letter offered an inducement its highly 
likely that they would have shown it to their broker and the broker would have known that it 
wasnt a stand-alone inducement offer but related to porting the mortgage product. 
My role is to come to a decision thats fair and reasonable. As I say I find it difficult to believe 
that Mr and Mrs P didnt show this letter to, or discuss its contents with, their broker. But Mr 
and Mrs P say they didnt. I have to then consider was it reasonable for them not to have 
discussed it or taken advice on it when they engaged a professional adviser to advise them 
on getting a mortgage. In my view I dont consider it reasonable to have had the opportunity 
of professional advice and not to have flagged the contents of a letter which was highly 
relevant to the subject matter of that advice. My view is that if such advice had been taken 
the broker would have been well aware that the contents of the letter related to porting and 
that Mr and Mrs P would only get the refund of the ERC if they ported the existing mortgage 
product to the mortgage on their new property which they didnt do. On that basis I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman