DRN-3869419
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has not met its obligations in 
regard to two transactions he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr G came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services (which I will call Firm M). Mr G says Firm M told him it could get 
him money back and compensation for a Timeshare type agreement hed previously entered 
into. Mr G says he then paid Firm M a total of over £5500 across payments in June and July 
2020. Mr G didnt receive any money back or compensation from Firm M in relation to the 
timeshare hed had previously. He says Firm M has now gone bust. So he says he cant get 
his money back from Firm M. So he took his dispute to Bank of Scotland (BOS for short).
In September 2021 BOS wrote to Mr G saying that it hadnt seen sufficient evidence to show 
Firm M had breached its contract with Mr G or misrepresented it. BOS noted it needed the 
contract agreed or other evidence to show the breach of contract.
Mr G later brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator considered the matter and 
felt that BOS hadnt treated Mr G unfairly. But Mr G didnt agree so this decision comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm M or other firms like it. This is 
because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely 
about what BOS did or didnt do in relation to its obligations. And it should be remembered 
that BOS is only involved in this issue as a result of its managing Mr Gs credit card account 
which he used to make these transactions to Firm M. In essence the tests I must consider 
are whether the transaction itself was made correctly, and whether BOS position in regard 
to Chargeback and Mr Gs Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was 
fair.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr G his complaint 
about BOS fails. I shall explain why.
Mr G doesnt contest that he made the transactions originally, or that they were applied 
incorrectly to his account. Ive considered the transactions themselves and Im satisfied BOS 
didnt do anything wrong in processing it or allocating those amounts to his account.
could BOS challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr G 
does here, BOS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt BOS here). So BOS isnt the final arbiter in 
whether the chargeback is successful-the card scheme is. And Chargeback isnt a right, but 
this Service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback if within the time limits and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think BOS couldve challenged the payments on the basis Mr G didnt properly 
authorise the transactions, given what Ive already set out.
The Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be raised to 
challenge disputed transactions. And BOS only has to raise a chargeback dispute when it 
thinks such a chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success. Mr G has supplied this 
service with the agreement document he entered into with Firm M. But when he originally 
approached BOS he didnt supply it to BOS, nor was it provided to BOS promptly after its 
email of September 2021. So I can see why BOS didnt raise a chargeback at that point 
because I dont think such a chargeback at that point, with what BOS knew at that time 
would have had a realistic prospect of success. And as Ive noted the scheme rules have 
time limits as to when Chargebacks can be raised and its only after these time limits have 
elapsed has BOS received further evidence to consider. So I dont think BOS has treated Mr 
G unfairly in regard to chargeback as I dont think any in time chargeback attempt by BOS 
had a realistic prospect of success.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr G used his credit card with BOS for these transactions. This means BOS has certain 
responsibilities to Mr G which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr G to hold BOS 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm M, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is reasonably relied upon and transpires 
to be untrue leading to detriment. 
It is clear that Mr G is very much of the opinion that Firm M made misrepresentations to him 
which led to him paying for its services. But before deciding on whether there is breach or 
misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be 
met before these issues can be considered. These are to do with the financial limit 
requirements and the relevant relationship between parties (Debtor, Creditor, Supplier). 
However for the reasons Im about to explain I dont think I need to decide on these issues 
as I dont think they make a difference as to whether Mr G gets any money back from BOS.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
When Mr G first raised his dispute with Firm M to BOS it said it needed more evidence to 
make its decision on and Mr G didnt supply it at that time. So I dont think BOS did anything 
wrong in refuting Mr Gs S75 claim at that point.
Ive considered the contract Mr G has now supplied. It is solely to do with extracting Mr G 
from a timeshare agreement. Mr G has supplied this contract and Mr G says he agreed to it. 
However Mr G also says his timeshare agreement had been suspended by that time. This 
document is less than two pages long and under the title of services provided it only has 
one heading relating to the services to be provided which is extraction of timeshare 
membership. To me this is a relatively clear and simple document which makes clear the 
single service to be provided-getting Mr G out of a timeshare agreement. There isnt reams 
of contractual terms and pages and pages of complex jargon in this document. To my mind this is a straightforward document which makes clear the service to be provided 
and its cost and its timeline of delivery. Mr Gs representatives argue he was already well out 
of his timeshare agreement by then. But the documentation makes clear the payments made 
and the agreement entered into are to get out of a timeshare agreement. So it is unclear to 
me why Mr G would sign this document bearing in mind it is substantially different to what he 
says he was told at the time. And considering the amount he was paying I dont think hed 
have taken such a decision lightly.
Mr Gs evidence about what he was told at the time doesnt contain a lot of detail about the 
circumstances of these the conversations he says he had. And Mr G doesnt persuasively 
explain why he signed a document and paid a significant sum of money for a service which 
he says was described as being very different to the paperwork which he says he agreed to 
which plainly set out the service to be provided. Mr G also doesnt persuasively explain why 
he agreed to pay over £5000 for a service he says he knew at the time he didnt need (which 
was clearly articulated in the paperwork he says he agreed to). 
For misrepresentation to be made out in essence there has to be a false statement of fact, 
Mr G needs to reasonably rely on that false statement of fact and then it needs to be shown 
hes lost out as a result of relying on it. Mr Gs comments make clear that he says he agreed 
the contract knowing he was told of services to be provided which were substantially 
different to the paperwork he agreed to. And he knew at the time he was already out of the 
timeshare and didnt need that service.
So I dont think Mr Gs comments on this matter can be said to show him reasonably relying 
on what he was told considering the substantially contradictory facts known to him at that 
point. As a consequence of all of this I dont think I can allocate a substantial amount of 
weight to what Mr G says in my decision making.
BOS position is that the evidence provided doesnt on balance persuade them that there is a 
breach of contract. It seems clear that there is no breach here because the terms make clear 
that the service is non-cancellable and because the aim of the agreed written contract was to 
get out of the Timeshare and Mr Gs representatives say hes out of the timeshare. So 
whether or not Firm M was responsible for this or Mr G was in fact already out of the 
timeshare agreement Ive not seen persuasive evidence that BOS has done anything wrong 
by concluding there is insufficient evidence that Firm M breached the contract.
And given my conclusions about what Mr G says happened Im not persuaded there is 
enough evidence as a whole to conclude on balance BOS has treated Mr G unfairly by not 
upholding his S75 claim.
For the sake of completeness Ill address some of Mr Gs arguments. Firstly I should note 
that Mr Gs representatives responses to the Investigators assessments didnt point 
persuasively to any failings of BOS in its consideration of his s75 claim. And this is the crux 
of the issue-did it consider his claim fairly. As Ive explained earlier this is not a decision 
about Firm M.
Mr Gs representatives say that Firm M lied to and frightened him, and this is the sole reason 
he entered the contract. But this isnt a fair summation of what happened here. Mr G was 
presented with a documented agreement substantially contrary to what he says he was told 
the service was and was solely for a service he says he knew at the time he didnt need. 
After all he has said to BOS in writing I informed them (Firm M), that I was no longer a 
member of this organisation and explained that my timeshare company was no longer in 
existence. So it is abundantly clear from what Mr G says he knew he didnt need timeshare 
relinquishment services but nevertheless agreed to pay for them. So Im not persuaded any misrepresentations here are material as Mr G knew he didnt need the service he was 
signing for and that it was substantially different to what he says he was being told the 
service was. Knowing all of this I dont think it unreasonable to consider a reasonable person 
wouldnt have entered into this agreement.
From what Mr G says Im not persuaded Mr G acted here under duress here either. He 
doesnt describe in persuasive details threats of violence or similar which meant he didnt 
have free choice. I also note that there was a week between Mr Gs first payment and the 
second (which was a significantly bigger payment than the first) to Firm M. So Mr G had 
plenty of time to pause and consider the matter during that time or to take advice from 
outside parties. All in all Im not persuaded he could reasonably rely on what he says he was 
told bearing in mind what he knew at the time. And as a consequence Im not persuaded 
BOS should cover these losses.
In summary and having considered all the relevant information and arguments made here it 
is my conclusion that this complaint does not succeed.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr G wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm M hasnt treated him fairly. But this isnt BOS 
fault. Here BOS is only responsible for the transaction itself, its consideration of chargeback 
and its consideration of the s75 claim Mr G made to it. And within that scope and considering 
the obligations BOS has, Im satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him what 
he paid Firm M.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. It has nothing 
further to do in relation to this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman