DRN-3230823
The complaint
Mr T complains about Saffron Building Society as he didnt receive communication about 
their annual general meeting (AGM) in April 2020 and missed his chance to exercise his 
voting rights. 
What happened
In 2020, Saffrons AGM fell on 29 April. They say they sent postal packs to members on 
24 March to share details and voting rights. But Mr T didnt receive this communication. So 
on 28 April, Mr T wrote to Saffron about it  he said he was a long standing member of the 
society and was concerned hed not been given his right to vote. He asked for the 
documentation to be posted to him, £100 for the inconvenience and an assurance that it 
wouldnt happen again next year. 
Saffron responded two days later to confirm that Mr Ts AGM pack had been posted by their 
third party mailing company on 24 March, and that his name and address were correct on 
their database so it should have been received. Also, they hadnt heard that other members 
hadnt received their packs, so thought their process was operating effectively. They didnt 
agree they ought to compensate him. 
Mr T wrote to Saffrons CEO on 16 May. He was unhappy with the response hed received 
and its tone. Hed since received the voting pack but didnt think itd been sent on 24 March 
 he thought it was all too easy to blame the issue on Royal Mail and instead thought theyd 
done an exceptional job during what was then early days of the pandemic. Mr T thought the 
issue must have been with the mailing company the society had chosen to use. He also 
explained hed been dealing with difficult personal circumstances shortly before the AGM, so 
it hadnt been on his mind to chase Saffron either. He asked for £125 compensation given 
hed had to write again.
Saffron wrote back on 20 May  they referred to their stance in their previous letter and 
confirmed they wouldnt be compensating him. Mr T wrote to Saffrons CEO again on 
29 May. He wasnt happy his complaint had been closed without being dealt with, wasnt 
happy with reference made to letters which hadnt been received or were irrelevant and 
wanted his rights to come to our service. 
Mr T asked for our help  one of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt 
think Saffron had done anything wrong as it did appear theyd sent Mr T the communication. 
Mr T remained unhappy and mentioned hed had a number of other issues in relation to post 
sent by the particular third party mailing company. So as no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Mr T was disappointed not to have received his AGM paperwork on 
time. By the time he contacted Saffron to query it, the meeting had already passed. Its also 
understandable he didnt think to contact them earlier than this given he was busy in his 
personal life. However in saying that, I cant see the delay was Saffrons fault. 
Saffron have told us they used a third party to issue the postal packs for the AGM on 
24 March 2020. They supplied the third party with a list of customers addresses and have 
been able to confirm Mr T was on that list. I also note that Mr Ts address was the same as 
we have for him now. The third party confirmed to Saffron that they didnt have any issues 
with the mailing and didnt miss anyone due to an error  had they have done so, theyd 
have raised this with Saffron at the time. So from everything Ive seen, Saffron did write to 
Mr T when they ought to have done.
Our service considers that once post has been sent, it would be unfair to hold the business 
responsible for its subsequent delivery given this is outside of their control. Saffron allowed a 
reasonable amount of time for the pack to be delivered ahead of the meeting and also noted 
that they hadnt been made aware of problems for other members, so couldnt see this was a 
wider issue. I note the pack was received by mid-May, so it does instead appear that an 
element within the delivery process resulted in the delay, rather than an action or omission 
on Saffrons part.
I note Mr T was unhappy with how Saffron handled his concerns and felt they were rude. But 
while I appreciate their communication was fairly concise, I dont agree it fell short of whats 
expected  instead it seems they didnt think they had much more to add following their first 
reply, so didnt feel the need to elongate their process and respond substantively repeatedly. 
I understand Mr T thinks an offer of goodwill would have been reasonable, but I dont agree 
it wouldve been, given Saffron hadnt done anything wrong. 
So from everything Ive seen, I dont think Saffron were responsible for the delayed post or 
that their customer service fell short of what Id expect to see. So I dont agree they need to 
pay Mr T any compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman