DRN-3804416
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) have refused 
to pay a lump sum under the late Mr Ws pension.
What happened
Mr W held an annuity policy with PIC, which was a pension scheme with a future annuity 
payable. 
In November 2021, Mr W asked PIC about his options in respect of making a withdrawal 
from his pension, due to his ill health. PIC provided Mr W with information, which included 
the option of a serious-ill health lump sum. 
Mr W then asked his doctor to complete a form regarding his health. He told his doctor this 
would allow him to withdraw £18,000 from his pension. However, Mr W didnt return any 
completed paperwork to PIC. 
After Mr W sadly passed away, the executors of his estate asked PIC to make the payment 
retrospectively. PIC refused to do so, as it said this would go against HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) requirements. Unhappy with PICs refusal, the estate of Mr W brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought PICs refusal to 
make the payment after Mr Ws death was correct, and that to make the payment would go 
against HMRCs requirements. 
The estate of Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HMRC explains that if a member is suffering with serious ill-health, the pension scheme 
administrator may commute any pension entitlement and pay this as a lump sum (known as 
a serious ill-health lump sum). However, certain conditions must first be met. These are:
The scheme administrator has received written evidence from a registered medical 
practitioner confirming that the member is expected to live for less than one year. 
The member has not used up all their lifetime allowance. 
The payment must extinguish all uncrystallised rights under the arrangement. 
It seems Mr W had intended to apply for a serious ill-health lump sum, as he advised his 
doctor of this when he asked them to complete the medical form. Unfortunately, when Mr W 
sent his doctor the relevant form, this was password protected and the password he gave 
the doctor had one digit missing. 
I havent seen any correspondence following this between Mr W and his doctor, so I dont 
know if the doctor made Mr W aware that they hadnt been able to access the document. 
Though I note that Mr W had told his doctor he wanted to see a copy of the form before it 
was provided to PIC, so he would have known it hadnt been sent to PIC. 
Sadly, Mr W passed away around four months later without ever submitting the paperwork to 
PIC. The crux of the issue is therefore whether PIC ought to make a retrospective payment 
to Mr Ws estate. 
Ive seen evidence from Mr Ws doctor which confirms he was diagnosed with his condition 
in 2021, and that he was bed bound and unable to leave hospital. This doesnt confirm that 
Mr W had less than one year to live as of November 2021, though I appreciate that this may 
well have been the case given his diagnosis and how unwell he was. 
Nevertheless, even assuming the doctor had confirmed that Mr W had less than one year to 
live as of November 2021, I think it was reasonable for PIC to refuse to make the payment 
retrospectively. I say that because its apparent that HMRCs intention for a serious ill-health 
lump sum is that it is paid to a pension scheme member who has less than a year to live, 
rather than to their estate after their death. 
Pension schemes have their own rules over whether or not a lump sum payment and/or 
dependants pension can be paid after a member dies. This scheme provides a dependants 
pension and Mr Ws children are entitled to an annuity under the pension until they reach 
age 23 (so long as they are in full-time education).
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr Ws family, ultimately, PIC didnt do 
anything wrong here. It didnt receive Mr Ws completed paperwork for the serious ill-health 
lump sum to be paid to him before he died. 
The estate has also questioned why Mr Ws ex-wife was not considered for a dependants 
pension. 
The scheme explains that on the death of a member, an annuity may be payable to the 
members surviving spouse/civil partner. If there is no spouse/civil partner, then an annuity 
may be payable to such dependant who was in a relationship closely resembling marriage or 
civil partnership with the member for more than 18 months prior to death (so long as the 
dependant was financially dependent or interdependent with the member for some or all of 
the necessities of life, and was a dependant for Finance Act 2004 purposes). 
I see that after PIC became aware of Mr Ws death, it sent Mr Ws family member a 
questionnaire so it could establish whether anyone was eligible for benefits under the 
scheme. The completed questionnaire confirmed that Mr W was divorced, not in a civil 
partnership, and not living with a partner or adult who was financially dependent on him. Im 
satisfied that PIC therefore had no reason to consider Mr Ws ex-wife for a dependants 
pension. However, if the estate believe that Mr Ws ex-wife does meet the scheme 
requirements for a dependants pension, it should contact PIC directly about this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman