DRN-2557176
The complaint
Mr H (who is represented by solicitors) is unhappy with what Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) did
after he made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
 In October 2018 Mr H contacted Lloyds seeking assistance with a claim he wanted to 
pursue against his former employers for unfair dismissal, unpaid holiday and non payment of 
a bonus. A legal assessment was obtained which said the claim had reasonable prospects 
of success (as required by the policy terms).
Mr H asked to use his own solicitors to pursue the claim. Lloyds said it was willing to
consider their appointment but the policy said it wouldnt pay more than it would pay a
solicitor from the panel of firms it used. It offered to pay £135 an hour (plus VAT) which it
said was in fact higher than it would have offered a panel solicitor.
Mr Hs solicitors werent prepared to act for that amount and argued that was an
unreasonable restriction on his ability to choose his own solicitor which rendered his freedom
to choose meaningless. They didnt think it was reasonable to apply panel rates to non panel
solicitors and said Mr H was entitled to choose an experienced local solicitor who had a
good knowledge of his former employer (and was acting for a number of his 
colleagues).They said the nature of the case, seniority of the solicitor required and going rate 
in that area should also be taken into account.
They didnt think it was fair to ask Mr H to pay any shortfall in costs and argued this was an
unfair contract term. They also argued this restriction wasnt made clear to Mr H when he
took out the policy and he wouldnt have done so if it had been explained to him. And they
thought Lloyds should pay an hourly rate of £217 an hour in line with the court guideline
hourly rates for solicitors.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
And our normal approach (in line with the relevant law) is that a policyholder should be
allowed to choose their own solicitor from the point that legal proceedings need to be started
 ie when negotiations have failed and it has been decided, by the solicitors involved, that it
will be necessary to issue proceedings to progress the legal case.
Here I dont think its in dispute that by the time Mr Hs claim had been accepted by Lloyds
(so after the prospects assessment had been completed) his claim had been lodged with the
Employment Tribunal. So from the point his claim was accepted he did have the freedom to
choose his own solicitor.
The issue is what hourly rate should be paid to his solicitors for progressing the case. And
our approach is that this should be clearly and unambiguously set out either in the policy or
in some other clearly worded document that was provided to the policyholder before they
entered into the contract of insurance. The policyholder needs to understand the extent of
cover they are getting under the policy
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy as they relate to solicitors costs.
These say:
Where the Insured wishes to exercise the right to choose, the Insured must write to Us with
their preferred representatives contact details. Where the Insured chooses to use their
preferred representative, the Insurer will not pay more than We agree to pay a solicitor from
Our panel. (Our panel solicitor firms are chosen with care and We agree special terms with
them which may be less than the rates available from other firms.)
I appreciate Mr H would have known from that the insurer wouldnt pay more than it paid a
solicitor from its own panel. But the terms dont say what a panel solicitor would be paid (or
alternatively set out the hourly rate that would be provided for his own solicitor). So Mr H
couldnt know what his own solicitor would actually receive. And it doesnt appear Mr H was
provided with any other information which made clear what that hourly rate would be. As a
result I dont think Mr H would have known what level of indemnity would be provided when
he took out the policy.
The policy does say it will pay his Legal Costs & Expenses the definition of which includes
Reasonable legal costs and disbursements reasonably and proportionately incurred by the
Appointed Advisor. Given that I think the fair approach in this case is for Lloyds to cover
costs Mr H reasonably incurs. However, it doesnt automatically follow that it should pay the
rate Mr Hs solicitors have asked for. It should pay a fair and appropriate hourly rate taking
into account the circumstances of this particular claim.
I think the standard court guideline hourly rates provide a good starting point on what that
rate might be. They set out what a reasonable hourly rate might be for solicitors and legal
executives of different levels of experience and in different areas of England and Wales. Mr
Hs solicitors say that Lloyds should pay an hourly rate of £217 an hour. Thats the rate for
National grade 1 which is a solicitor or legal executive with over eight years experience.
There is no higher grade, for the purposes of the court guideline rates. So I think its
reasonable to say these fee earners would be expected to undertake the more complex,
unusual or high value claims.
Mr Hs solicitors have said this is a complex claim (and is being dealt with by a solicitor with
more than eight years experience). I havent seen compelling evidence to suggest otherwise.
So I think a Grade 1 fee earner would be appropriate.
However, I note Mr H lives in a National grade 2 area. I appreciate his solicitors are based
in National grade 1 and I understand why Mr H might prefer to use solicitors that have prior
knowledge of his employer. But I note there are numerous solicitors in his local area that
carry out employment law work. Taking that, and the nature of the case, into account I think
it would be reasonable of Lloyds to pay an hourly rate that reflects the experience of a Grade
1 fee earner in Mr Hs local area (so £201 an hour plus VAT).
I appreciate thats still less than the amount his current solicitors feel would be reasonable
but I think its a fair amount in the circumstances. Mr H will need to discuss with his solicitors
whether theres any top up he needs to pay in addition to that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Hs representatives did respond. In summary they said: 
The guideline hourly rates hadnt changed since 2010 but a review recommended they 
should be increased. They also drew attention to recent court cases which used higher 
figures than those set out in the existing rates;  
They said Mr H was entitled to instruct his family solicitors and a more local firm might 
have been conflicted given his employer is one of the largest in his local area. His 
employer had instructed a National Grade 1 firm and he should be able to pursue his 
case on an equal footing. 
They continued to feel that a rate of £217 an hour (plus VAT) should be paid in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the guideline rates havent been updated for some years and accept that in 
other cases the courts may have felt a higher figure should be used. But I think they remain 
a reasonable starting point in considering what an appropriate hourly rate would be. It 
appears Mr Hs solicitors accept that because they argued they should be paid in line with 
the guideline hourly rates for their part of the country. 
But I accept the guideline rates arent the only consideration. Ive also thought about the 
complexity of the case and what grade and location of fee earner would be appropriate. In 
addition Ive taken into account that the courts have said an insurer has the right to restrict 
what it pays to a non-panel solicitor provided the amount offered isnt so low as to render the 
policyholders freedom to choose meaningless. 
As I said in my provisional decision I can understand why Mr H wanted to use solicitors that 
had prior knowledge of his employer. And I appreciate hes familiar with the firm hes using. 
But the question for me is what a fair and appropriate hourly rate would be taking into 
account the circumstances of this particular claim. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr Hs solicitors have said about this being a complex case. 
Thats why I accepted it should be dealt with by a Grade 1 fee earner. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, there are numerous solicitors in Mr Hs local area that carry out 
employment law work. And while his representatives have suggested they might be 
conflicted Ive not seen other evidence to support that.  I appreciate Mr Hs employer may 
have selected a firm in National Grade 1 but I dont think that in itself means an experienced 
solicitor from outside that area wouldnt be able to properly deal with the case. 
Taking all of that into account Im not persuaded that an hourly rate of £201 (plus VAT) 
unreasonably restricts Mr Hs freedom to choose his own solicitor. I think its a fair amount in 
the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Subject to Mr Hs claim continuing to meet the other 
terms and conditions of his policy the Society of Lloyd's will need to pay his solicitors 
reasonable costs at a rate of £201 an hour plus VAT. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman