DRN-4199616
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about the service Mr K received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax, when he contacted them and attempted to transfer funds.
What happened
Mr K called Halifax in February 2023 and says he waited 20 minutes to speak to their 
mortgage department about clearing off his mortgage sub accounts.
Halifax provided Mr K with the necessary information but, as Mr K wished to make payments 
from his Halifax Instant Access savings account, he was told he had to call their banking 
department. This is because Halifaxs processes required him to set up a new payment 
instruction. Also, a higher standard of security verification was required, and it was 
necessary for Mr K to make a call via his mobile banking APP. 
However, when attempting to do this, Mr K experienced a further call delay and a 
disconnection.
Mr K complained to Halifax as he found their procedure and the requirement to make a 
phone call when he was online inconvenient. He also says he spent nearly 2 hours trying to 
make a payment. 
Halifax explained they correctly followed their procedure but acknowledged there were 
service issues and offered an apology and £50 compensation.
Mr K was dissatisfied with the level of compensation and complained to our service. 
However, our investigator thought the offer of £50 was a fair amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
As Mr K remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that although I can understand Mr Ks frustration at the time and trouble 
it took to transfer funds from one Halifax account to another, I cant tell a business to make 
alterations to their systems, procedures, processes or guidance. I say this because we arent 
the regulator of the financial services industry. Also, Halifax have a responsibility to protect 
Mr Ks best interests and are entitled to implement and carry out security checks.
As Halifax accept Mr K experienced poor service, due to long wait times and getting cut off, 
whats left for me to decide here is what is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to 
put this right.
I recognise Mr K would like Halifax to have a simpler, seamless payment and security 
process and he shouldnt have had to wait as long as he did to complete his transactions. 
However, Im satisfied that Halifax correctly followed their procedures and that there was a 
requirement for Mr K to spend some time on the phone.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for 
non-financial loss tends to be modest. Our website explains that using financial services 
wont always be totally hassle free, that compensation doesnt automatically follow and an 
apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a one-off incident 
or occurrence. 
Having fully reviewed the file together with our compensation guidance and considered the 
impact of the service issues Mr K experienced, Im satisfied that £50 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for Halifax to have offered.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed here, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman