DRN-3806538
The complaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) overdraft charges were 
unfair and causing her financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss W held an account with an overdraft facility with a £50 limit. Miss W complained to 
NatWest that its overdraft charges were unfair and causing her financial difficulty. NatWest 
says all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
but as a gesture of goodwill refunded £51.35 of charges and advised to get in touch with it if 
Miss W required support and help with gambling transactions. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ws concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss W unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Miss W has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years 
were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service 
provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Miss W if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ws account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss W was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss W fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Miss W unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Miss Ws statements from July 2016 onwards I 
cant see anything to suggest that NatWest ought to have realised she might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Miss Ws statements show that although Miss W did use her overdraft, she was in credit with 
mostly a healthy balance far more than she was in overdraft. Miss W also held a savings 
account with an average credit balance that was enough to pay off her overdraft should she 
have chosen to do so.  I can see that there were a large number of gambling transactions on 
her account, but the statements show that this was mainly funded from regular credits being 
received into the account rather than through the overdraft borrowing alone. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Miss W wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
NatWest to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Ws account was being 
used. But NatWest did agree as a gesture of goodwill to refund £51.35 of overdraft charges 
and offered support with Miss Ws gambling should she require help.
So taking everything into consideration I dont think NatWest treated Miss W unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss W  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman