DRN-2511442
The complaint
A Limited Liability Partnership which Ill refer to as G have complained that XL Catlin 
Insurance Company UK Limited avoided their property insurance policies and didnt pay their 
claim, following a fire. 
Mr D has complained on Gs behalf. Mr D has been helped in bringing this complaint to us. 
But, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of being those of Mr D.
What happened
G took out a policy with Catlin in September 2016 through a broker. The policy renewed in
September 2017. In 2018 there was a fire at the property resulting in significant damage.
Mr D claimed on the policy and Catlin appointed a loss adjuster and a forensic investigator to
look into things. The loss adjuster interviewed Mr D and found that the property had been
unoccupied since 2007 and said it wasnt in a good state of repair.
Catlin said Mr D hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk when he bought the policy in
2016. It said there were numerous errors, but of particular concern was that hed declared
that the property had been unoccupied since 2016 and was in a good state of repair. It said it
wouldnt have offered the policy if it had known the property had been unoccupied since
2007 or that it wasnt in a good state of repair. As it wouldnt have offered cover it avoided
both the 2016 and 2017 policies (which means cancelled from the start as though they had
never existed) and attempted to return the premium. Catlin also said that even if it hadnt 
avoided the policies, it would have turned down the claim due to breaches of the policy 
conditions.
Mr D complained to Catlin, but Catlin thought it was entitled to avoid the policies. So, Mr D
brought the complaint to us. He didnt think Catlin had shown it wouldnt have offered cover. 
He said the property was in a good state of repair and provided documents to show the 
maintenance that had been carried out on it. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 November 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). This requires commercial
customers to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out a commercial insurance
contract (a policy) and at renewal.
If the policyholder fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if they make - what the
Act describes as - a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the customer had
made a fair presentation of the risk. The remedy available to the insurer under the Act
depends on whether the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate
nor reckless.
Catlin thinks Mr D failed to make a fair presentation of the risk when he bought the policy
because he said the property had been unoccupied since 2016, when in fact it had been
unoccupied since he bought it in 2007.
Catlin also said the property wasnt in a good state of repair, but I dont think I need to make
a finding on that. I say that because Im satisfied Catlin has done enough to show it was
entitled to avoid the policies due to the property being unoccupied. Ill now explain why.
I understand Mr D bought the policy through a broker. Catlin said this was an independent
broker. I think therefore that the broker was acting as Gs agent and so had a duty to make a
fair presentation of the risk on Gs behalf.
The Statement of Fact from 2016 asks Year property became unoccupied. The answer on
the Statement of Fact is 2016. There doesnt seem to be any dispute about how long the
property had been unoccupied and Mr D said he wouldnt have said 2016, as the property
had always been insured as being vacant.
As the Statement of Fact says 2016 I think this is most likely the answer that was given to
Catlin when G bought the policy. The covering letter also asked G to read the document
carefully to check the details are correct. And I havent seen anything to show Mr D
contacted Catlin to correct the information given. So, I think Mr D - or his agent - provided
the wrong information when he said the property had been unoccupied since 2016, as its
accepted its been unoccupied since 2007. This means, given that its clear the property had
been unoccupied since 2007 I dont think Mr D made a fair presentation of the risk when
buying the policy.
The duty to make a fair presentation of the risk is resurrected at renewal. Ive seen the
renewal documents Catlin sent Mr D in 2017 and these ask him to check the documents and
let his broker know if anything is incorrect. The letter highlights in bold font that Mr Ds cover
could be affected and the policy cancelled or avoided if the information isnt correct. Mr D
doesnt seem to have tried to amend the details despite the renewal document stating that
the property became unoccupied in 2016. As the property continued to be unoccupied I dont
think Mr D made a fair presentation of the risk at renewal.
Catlin has provided underwriting evidence which shows it wouldnt have offered cover if it
had known the property had been unoccupied for as long as it had. I appreciate Mr D doesnt
agree this shows Catlin wouldnt have offered cover, but I think it does. Ive seen the
underwriting guidance document which says any unoccupancy over a certain number of
years would be placed on a different facility.
Catlin has explained that there are facilities which might provide cover for properties that
were unoccupied for more than the number of years specified in the underwriting guide. But
if Mr D had correctly said the property had been unoccupied for nine years the application
would have been referred to the underwriters. A senior person within Catlin has confirmed
that this application would have resulted in a decline. Ive no reason to doubt the testimony
theyve provided.
I can understand why Mr D might feel that Catlin cant show it wouldnt have provided this
policy, as the underwriting criteria doesnt specifically say it would be declined. But, on
balance, the underwriting criteria does show its most likely Catlin wouldnt have sold him this
particular policy. And its not unusual for some decisions to be made by an underwriter
following a referral, as not every scenario can be included in an underwriting guide. As the
underwriting guide says the risk would need to be covered on a different facility and a senior
person within Catlin has also confirmed this would have been declined, Im satisfied Catlin
has shown its most likely it wouldnt have sold Mr D the policy. This means I think Mr Dmade a qualifying breach when buying and renewing Gs policy.
Catlin has said the qualifying breach was careless or reckless. Under the Act the breach is
ether deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. In this case Catlin has avoided
the policies and returned the premium, which is the remedy for a qualifying breach thats
neither deliberate nor reckless.
As Mr D said he gave the correct information, its unclear how Catlin came to be told that the
property had only been unoccupied since 2016. But I havent seen anything to suggest he
deliberately or recklessly gave the wrong information. So, I think its fair and reasonable that
Catlin has treated the qualifying breach as neither deliberate nor reckless. As such, Im
satisfied Catlin has acted in accordance with the Act when avoiding the policies and
returning the premium. As the policy wasnt in force at the time of the fire Catlin doesnt need
to pay the claim.
Im not going to comment any further on whether the property was in a good state of repair,
because I think Catlin was entitled to avoid the policy on the basis of how long it had been
unoccupied. As the policy wasnt in force, it also means I dont need to make a finding on
any breach of policy conditions.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D given the significant value of
the claim. But I think Catlin has acted fairly and reasonably and I dont intend to require it to
do anything further.
Catlin responded to say it didnt have any further comments it wanted to make. Mr D asked 
for a copy of the underwriting information relied on, as he didnt feel hed been provided with 
this before. With Catlins agreement our investigator provided Mr D with a relevant extract 
from the underwriting criteria. Mr D didnt respond to that information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any further comments from Catlin or Mr D, on Gs behalf, that 
persuade me to change my findings, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman