DRN-2160495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies that Mr and Mrs E bought in 1999 and 
2003, in connection with their mortgage. The policies provided cover for Mr E if he couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policies?
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say they didnt know the policies had been added to their accounts, and they 
wouldnt have agreed to buy them if Halifax had given them a proper choice. Ive noted 
everything Mr and Mrs E have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs E and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax has provided a copy of the PPI application form Mr E completed to apply for the 
cover in 1999. This was separate to Mr and Mrs Es mortgage application. So I think Mr and 
Mrs E wouldve realised they had a choice about buying the PPI.
Halifax has also provided a record of the questions it asked Mr E before it provided a quote 
for the 2003 policy. And it seems Mr E contacted Halifax in 2005 to cancel the policy. So 
from what Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs E knew they had a choice about buying 
the PPI in 2003. 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs E have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware of the PPI, or that they had a choice 
about buying it. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I say this because:
- Mr E was eligible for the policies given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr E says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he was off work sick, and that he 
and Mrs E had some savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Es employer 
benefits, and wouldve meant Mr and Mrs E could use those benefits and their savings to 
cover other expenses. So I think the policies wouldve been useful to Mr and Mrs E if Mr E 
couldnt work.   
- Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs E needed 
better advice or information about the policies exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs E before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policies 
were competitively priced and had reasonable benefits. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policies had reasonable benefits. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman