DRN-2559653
The complaint
  Mr L has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
 
Mr L was given a fixed term guarantor loan by Buddy Loans. The details of this is given 
below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments Total to repay
15/09/2015 24 £1750 £108.18 £2577.73
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He thought Buddy Loans had been wrong 
to provide Mr L with the loan. He concluded that Buddy Loans hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks and if it had done so, it would have seen Mr L couldnt afford to repay 
the loan as he was having problems at the time with his finances. He also concluded that 
Buddy Loans had also not made a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it. 
Buddy Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been 
settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law.
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L would be able to repay their loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
As the lender, Buddy Loans should have taken steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr L 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Buddy Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr L.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Buddy Loans 
had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall joint financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something Buddy Loans 
says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Buddy Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr L.
Buddy Loans on the occasion it lent to Mr L asked for information about his income and 
expenditure. It also says it verified his wages, carried out a credit check and used data from 
the Office of National Statistics to compare alongside the expenditure he declared. It says it 
added a buffer to the amount it had calculated for Mr Ls expenditure.
Buddy Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Mr L had enough disposable income 
to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about what it says it 
did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is 
because, on balance, like the adjudicator, I dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending 
decision on this loan and I will explain why.
Mr L asked for the loan on 15 September 2015 for £1750 and when he did this, he told it 
about his income and expenditure. when I see Buddy Loans income and expenditure 
calculation I can see, on the face of it, Mr L had sufficient income to be able to afford the 
loan.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired (and supplied to our service) 
that Mr L had defaults, a delinquent account and other adverse credit data, that I think 
should have shown it that he wouldnt have been in a position to make the loan repayments 
in a sustainable way. I can see three defaulted accounts on the credit check findings Buddy Loans would have 
had in front of it at the time. One was for a bank current account that although had defaulted 
in 2013, was still showing an outstanding balance for Mr L to repay. Mr L had also defaulted 
on a short-term loan in November 2014 with the whole balance left to repay. Mr L hadnt 
made a single repayment on this loan only months before he asked for this one. And then he 
also defaulted on a telecommunications account six months before asking for this one with a 
balance still left to repay. Also, I can see that Mr L had got into arrears on a credit card 
account and it was showing on Buddy Loans credit search as a delinquent account. Mr L 
was considerably over the credit limit set, this had steadily risen up to the point of application 
and there was no indication that he was repaying anything back. I think it would have been 
reasonable for Buddy Loans to conclude that despite the disposable income calculation that 
it arrived at, Mr L was struggling to manage his finances and that more likely than not he 
wouldnt have been able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Especially due to the fact 
this loan was due to be repaid over a term of 24 months.
Finally, Buddy Loans in response to our adjudicators view, says that ethically it doesnt think 
this complaint should be upheld as Mr L didnt notify it that he was unemployed at the time 
he asked for the loan. Instead Mr L disclosed a monthly income figure, something Buddy 
Loans used to assess affordability for Mr L of the loan. Mr L provided a letter that shows he 
was dismissed from his employment the day before he applied for the loan. 
I acknowledge what Buddy Loans has said here and have seen the letter that it is referring 
to. That being said, my role is to consider what Buddy Loans did or didnt do when it agreed 
to lend in this instance. I am considering whether or not Buddy Loans lent to Mr L 
irresponsibly or not. Whether it carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending 
decision based on what it had in front of it and what it did know at that time. Whatever it feels 
it ought to do about anything that has come to light with Mr L in the meantime is a matter for 
it to consider or not, separately from Mr Ls complaint about irresponsible lending.
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr L was finding it difficult to repay his existing credit commitments. It was 
unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms 
provided. I think in these particular circumstances (from the adverse credit information on his 
report); Buddy Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend 
to him.
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Buddy Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr L 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Buddy Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
 Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Advancis Limited 
trading as Buddy Loans.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman