DRN-4121534
The complaint
Mr W has complained about One Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim made for 
accidental damage to his carpet.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr W has home contents insurance which is underwritten by an insurer which I will refer to 
as Insurer A. Insurer A is a separate business to One Insurance Limited.
The home contents insurance was sold by a broker, One Call Insurance Services. Part of 
One Calls offer when selling the home contents insurance was that separate accidental 
damage cover underwritten by One Insurance Limited would also be set up. This accidental 
damage cover was free, and would run for the same period as the home contents insurance 
provided by Insurer A.
In 2022, Mr W contacted One Insurance stating that a reclining chair had damaged his 
carpet. One Insurance declined the claim on the basis that it considered the damage had 
been caused over a period of time, and was the result of wear and tear. Mr W responded to 
say that the damage had been caused by a one off incident when the chair had juddered 
and dug into the carpet.
One Insurance continued to decline the claim, stating that the cause of damage had 
changed since Mr W originally reported it. It also stated that it had been told the recliner was 
in correct working order, and therefore it would not have expected it to damage the carpet. 
Unhappy with One Insurances stance, Mr W brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that on balance it was likely that 
the carpet had been damaged gradually over time, rather than by a sudden event that would 
constitute accidental damage.
Mr W disagreed, highlighting that he had sent One Insurance photos of the damaged carpet. 
He reiterated that the recliner had dug into the carpet and caused a rip. Mr W also said that 
a week before he had made the claim, he had had some wallpaper hung in his room, and 
there was no sign that the carpet was damaged. He explained that he had told One 
Insurance that he was happy for an engineer to inspect the damage at the time (although I 
understand that the carpet has now been replaced).
Mr W described how he had been sitting on the recliner, heard a sound, and then the sofa 
dug into the carpet. His view is therefore that a one off accident caused the damage. Mr W 
said that he had been entirely honest in his claim, but he feels One Insurance have put 
words in his mouth regarding its circumstances. Mr W has said he expects the claim to be 
paid, but in any event, he should be offered a full refund of the premium. As Mr W did not 
agree with the investigators findings, this complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I should explain that Mr W separately made a claim to Insurer A for his carpet 
damage. He has subsequently complained about Insurer As decision not to cover his claim, 
and that has been considered by this Service under a separate complaint. In the complaint 
that I am considering, I am only assessing the actions of One Insurance when it declined the 
accidental damage claim which was made.
One Insurances policy covers what it describes as extended accidental damage. In the 
policy wording, accidental damage is defined as damage that is unexpected and unintended 
caused by something sudden and which is not deliberate.
I have listened to a recording of the phone call when Mr W first rang to report his claim to 
One Insurance. At the start of the call, Mr W said that his reclining chair had been going 
backwards and forwards on the carpet, causing a cut of several inches. One Insurances 
representative asked Mr W when he first noticed the carpet damage. Mr W answered that it 
was first noticed the day of the call, when he moved the chair.
The representative asked if the damage had occurred over a period of time due to the chair 
reclining back and forth. Mr W responded possibly, yes. He then explained that the 
damage could have occurred over the previous few weeks, but he didnt quite know if that 
was the case. Mr W also explained that it was five to six weeks since hed last moved the 
recliner in order to vacuum, and at that time he had not seen any carpet damage.
I acknowledge Mr Ws comments that he feels One Insurance put words in his mouth when 
he first reported the claim, leading him to suggest that the carpet damage had been caused 
over a period of time by the recliner, rather than being a one off incident. I note that on the 
claim form completed by Mr W, it stated that the sofa dug in to carpet. Mr W has 
subsequently stated that a week before the claim, when he was having some wallpapering 
done, there was no sign of damage to the carpet. He has also described sitting on the 
recliner and hearing a sound that he considers was the chair digging into the carpet, making 
this a sudden accident.
Mr W has highlighted that he has been entirely honest in bringing his claim for damage to 
One Insurance. In assessing this complaint, I must consider whether in my view One 
Insurance has acted fairly in declining the claim. One Insurances claims decision focused on 
Mr Ws initial call notification of it. Although the representative did ask Mr W if the damage 
had happened over a period of time, Mr W did agree that this was possible. And prior to this 
exchange, at the start of the call, it was Mr W who had described the recliner going 
backwards and forwards on the carpet. In my view, it was reasonable for One Insurance to 
interpret this as indicative that the damage had taken place over a period of time, rather than 
as a result of one particular incident.
As the policy wording above explains, cover requires the damage to have been as a result of 
something sudden. One Insurance has highlighted that the policy also excludes damage 
resulting from wear and tear. On balance, my view is that based on Mr Ws description of 
events when he first rang to make the claim, One Insurance acted reasonably when 
concluding that the carpet damage was not covered under the policy terms, as this was not 
caused by a one off incident. Instead it was more likely to have been caused over a period of 
time.Mr W has asked that One Insurance be required to return his policy premium to him, whether 
or not his claim is paid. But as explained above, the accidental damage cover from One 
Insurance was provided for free, at the same time that Mr W took out his home contents 
insurance with Insurer A. Consequently, no premium was paid for it.
I appreciate that Mr W is likely to be disappointed with my findings. However, based on the 
weight of evidence provided, my current view is that One Insurance acted fairly when it 
declined the claim made for the damaged carpet.
Responses to my provisional decision
One Insurance stated that it had no further comments to make.
Mr W confirmed that he did not agree with my provisional findings. He still considers that 
when making his claim, One Insurance put words in his mouth that it then used to decline his 
claim. He has reiterated that when a decorator was working at his home shortly before he 
made the claim, the carpet showed no signs of damage. Mr W says that it was only the night 
before he called to make his claim that the rip in the carpet occurred.
Mr W has also said that when he sits in the sofa it moves the wooden floorboards in his 
home. Mr W has explained that these type of floorboards have to be replaced after around 
30 years, but the ones in his home have been in place for about 60 years. I understand that 
he has now got agreement with the owner of his property that the floorboards will be 
replaced. But he says that the cause of the carpet damage was movement in the 
floorboards. As a result, Mr W still considers that he has made a valid claim for this damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered Mr Ws response to my provisional decision, my view 
remains as outlined in the provisional decision. I acknowledge what Mr W has said about 
movement in the floorboards, and the fact that these now need to be replaced. However, I 
need to assess this matter based on everything provided by both parties relating to the 
incident claimed for.
It was at the outset of the call when Mr W rang to report his claim that he described how the 
sofa had been going backwards and forwards on the sofa, resulting in the carpet being 
ripped. Although Mr W says that he feels words were put in his mouth by One Insurance 
when he reported the claim, I am mindful that this description of the damage was made 
when Mr W initially explained it, before he was asked further questions. It was based on this 
initial description by Mr W that One Insurance assessed the claim and concluded that the 
carpet damage had occurred over a period of time, and was therefore not covered by the 
policy.
I appreciate that Mr Ws current view is that floor movement caused the carpet to rip. 
However, on balance my opinion is that One Insurance acted reasonably when placing 
weight on Mr Ws initial description at the time he reported the damage. As explained in my 
provisional decision, to be covered by the policy as accidental damage, this needed to be 
something which was sudden. Overall, my view is that One Insurance reasonably concluded 
that the damage to the carpet had not occurred as a one off incident, and was instead 
something that had happened over a period of time. Consequently, my conclusion is that 
One Insurances decision to decline the claim was fair. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023. 
John Swain
Ombudsman