DRN-3268483
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to remove his name 
from a joint account. 
What happened
Mr G had a joint account with his ex-wife, which theyd opened when they were married. He 
says he hadnt accessed the account since they divorced 15 years ago - and that hed made 
various attempts to get his name removed from it over the last four years. Hes told us that 
hed even visited his local branch to get the required forms sent to his ex-wife, but she hadnt 
responded.  
Sadly, Mr Gs ex-wife died in January 2021. NatWest said the joint account was overdrawn 
by £1,337.73  and that hes liable to repay this amount. Mr G complained that it wasnt fair 
for them to hold him liable for this debt after theyd failed to action his request to be removed 
from the account. But NatWest said theyd done nothing wrong.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly by not removing Mr Gs name from 
the account, because they needed both parties consent to do this. She explained that, as he 
was still a party to the account, Mr G would be liable for the overdrawn amount. She noted 
that NatWest had offered to pay £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him. 
She felt this was a offer  and that they shouldnt have to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree that he should be held liable for the overdrawn amount on this account. He 
said NatWest had confirmed they dont even send a bank card to his address. He felt there 
was nothing more he could have done to get his name removed from the account, because 
his ex-wife was being stubborn. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration at being told hes liable to repay a debt on an account he 
hasnt been using. Hes told us he stopped communicating with his ex-wife after their 
divorce, but hed made at least three phone calls to NatWest about getting his name 
removed from the joint account. He says NatWest didnt tell him his request couldnt be 
actioned without his ex-wifes signature until he went into the branch. 
Neither NatWest nor Mr G have a record of the calls or visit he made to the branch. But I 
dont see any reason not to believe what hes told us. I accept that he made more than 
one phone call and a visit to the branch before being told what was needed to get his 
name removed from the account. But I note NatWest have offered Mr G £50, which I 
consider to be fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
I appreciate Mr G may not have realised that he could be held liable for the account. 
NatWest have told us that it was opened in May 1992, subject to their account terms. 
Although the account was opened quite a long time ago, I find it most likely that Mr G was 
given a copy of the account terms and conditions at the time. Ive reviewed these in detail to 
see what they say about liability for any debts incurred by one of the account holders. 
The account terms say:
Youre all responsible to pay back any overdraft on your account. This means that 
we can ask all or just one of you to repay the full amount of any money you owe us 
and not just a share. This applies even if youre unaware that on overdraft has been 
used on your account.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr G was required to agree to this 
condition when he opened the joint account. So I cant say NatWest have treated him 
unfairly by holding him liable for the outstanding amount theyre owed.
I understand Mr G feels he couldnt have done anything more to get his name removed 
from the account when his ex-wife wasnt willing to cooperate. Ive given careful thought 
to the point hes made. But Ive seen that the account terms say:
 any one of you can tell us that we can only accept instructions from all of you 
acting together. After this happens, all instructions must be in writing and signed by 
all of you. This means that you wont be able to use our telephone, mobile or online 
banking services, or use a debit card as these services rely on us being able to 
accept instructions from just one of you.
Im satisfied that the process described here would have enabled Mr G to prevent his ex-wife 
continuing to use the joint account against his wishes. Mr G says that, after his ex-wife failed 
to return the form NatWest sent to her, he didnt follow it up any further. I havent seen 
anything to suggest he made NatWest aware he was still having difficulty getting his ex-
wifes cooperation - or that he asked them what else he could do in this situation. So, I dont 
consider NatWest to have acted unreasonably by requiring both signatures for the removal 
of Mr Gs name from the account.
My final decision
The business has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle this complaint, and I think their 
offer is fair. So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr G £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman