DRN-1590598
 
complaint
Ms A says that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 1990, BoS sold Ms A a PPI policy to protect her mortgage repayments. The policy 
wouldve covered her mortgage repayments if Ms A had been too ill to work, or if she was 
made unemployed. The mortgage had started in 1988.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms As complaint should be upheld. Ms A disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither party has been able to provide any documents from the sale. I dont find this 
surprising given over 30 years have passed since then. But it does mean I have to make my 
decision based on limited information. Where there is limited information, I will make my 
decision based on whats most likely to have happened taking into account what both parties 
have told me. 
Ms A says she thought she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. BoS say that Ms A 
would only have got the policy if she agreed to take it and she wouldve been told it was 
optional. Ive considered that Ms A had already held the mortgage for over a year before she 
took the PPI. So, I cannot see how Ms A would have thought she had to take the PPI in 
order to keep on using credit she already had. Whilst I acknowledge that things couldve 
happened just as Ms A said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that BoS 
wouldve made her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even 
though she may not remember that now, many years later. 
BoS made a personal recommendation to Ms A about the policy. So it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Ms A. Looking at Ms As 
circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
 Ms A was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a claim, like an existing 
medical condition or unusual employment circumstances.
 
Ms A says she wouldve got some sick pay from her employer if she was unwell. But 
whilst her initial sick pay was good it dropped significantly after six months and Ms A 
couldnt recall what other means she may have been able to rely on. But the PPI 
policy wouldve covered Ms A for up to 12 months per claim in the event long term 
illness stopped her from working and it wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
she received and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of 
pay. And it would have paid out if Ms A lost her job. So, considering all of this and the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on her home, I 
think Ms A couldve found the policy useful. 
 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable.
 
Its possible that Ms A didnt get all the information she needed about the policy from BoS. 
But for the reasons Ive said, I think the policy was suitable, so I dont think better, or clearer, 
information wouldve made a difference to Ms As decision to buy the PPI. So I dont think 
Ms A has lost out as a result of anything BoS did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman