DRN-3295200
The complaint
Mr B complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr B was given a loan by TFS in December 2016. He borrowed £15,000 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments.
TFS gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It verified Mr Bs income by 
checking some payslips. And it checked Mr Bs credit file to assess how much he 
was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive set out 
above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of TFSs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
TFS had a lengthy conversation with Mr B during which it discussed the results of its 
credit check and asked Mr B for information about his normal outgoings. Mr B had 
previously told the lender that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate some other 
debts  so TFS also used the call to get details of those debts, and the payments that 
Mr B was currently making on them.
Two of the debts that Mr B wanted to consolidate did not appear on TFSs credit 
check. That obviously caused the lender to ask some further questions, but Mr B 
explained that both had been taken out relatively recently. One loan was car finance 
at a higher interest rate than TFS would charge. And the other was a short-term loan. 
I dont think the absence of those loans from the credit check results should have 
caused undue concern to TFS given their relatively recent nature. And I think Mr Bs 
honesty in declaring the additional debts might have reassured TFS about the 
accuracy of the other information hed provided.
 
Mr B had made relatively frequent use of short-term credit in the previous months. 
That does seem to imply that he was using borrowing to finance his repayments on 
earlier loans. But by taking the loan from TFS, and consolidating his outstanding 
borrowing he was likely to place his finances onto a far more stable footing. And it 
seems to me, from the information provided by Mr B and the credit check, that the 
repayments he would need to make to TFS would be far lower than the total of his 
repayments on the loans he was consolidating  albeit he would be making those 
repayments for a far longer period.
Mr B has provided us with copies of his bank statements and those do show that, at 
the exact time he asked TFS for the loan, his overdraft was higher than was shown 
on the credit check, and the amount he said he would consolidate via the new loan. 
The nature of an overdraft does mean that its level fluctuates during a month. I can 
see that in the month before he took the loan the level of Mr Bs overdraft fluctuated 
by over £3,000. I dont think the difference in the overdraft value to that being 
proposed for consolidation make TFSs lending decision inappropriate  at the very 
least Mr B would be making a sizeable reduction to his overdrawn balance.
I think that it was reasonable for TFS to base its lending decision on the information it 
received from its credit check, supplemented by the information Mr B provided. 
I dont think the results of those checks should have led the lender to request 
additional information. By providing this consolidation loan TFS was likely to allow 
Mr B to reduce his monthly expenditure on credit repayments. So I dont currently 
think TFS was wrong to give the loan to Mr B.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both TFS and Mr B have said they accept my provisional decision and 
have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have said they accept my provisional findings I see no reason to alter 
the conclusions I reached in that decision.
So I think that it was reasonable for TFS to base its lending decision on the information it 
received from its credit check, supplemented by the information Mr B provided. I dont think 
the results of those checks should have led the lender to request additional information. By 
providing this consolidation loan TFS was likely to allow Mr B to reduce his monthly 
expenditure on credit repayments. So I dont think TFS was wrong to give the loan to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against TFS Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman