DRN-2311179
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post 
Office) sent him a misleading e-mail about his account which resulted in him closing the 
account and losing out on a fixed term interest rate.
What happened
Mr C says he received information from Post Office telling him the interest rate on his 
account was reducing. He says as a result he closed the account but then realised the 
interest rate may have been fixed and so contacted Post Office. Mr C says he was told the 
interest rate was fixed and as a result of the misleading letter has lost out on that fixed 
interest rate. He says Post Office should have told him there was a fixed interest rate in 
place and would like it to pay the interest he would have received.
Post Office says Mr Cs account had a fixed interest rate bonus for 12 months after it was 
opened. It says Mr Cs account when it was opened paid .88% as a fixed rate and .50% as 
the underlying rate making a total rate of 1.38%. Post Office says it wrote and told Mr C in 
April 2020 that the underlying rate was reducing by.49%. It says Mr C could have called it if 
he was confused about the information and says he closed the account and would have 
seen from the online screens there was a fixed rate element to the interest rate. Post Office 
says it acted in line with the account terms and conditions by reducing the interest rate and 
by proving Mr C of notice of the change.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions made clear there was a fixed interest rate in place 
and Mr C ought to have been aware of that. The investigator didnt think there was any 
mention of that rate reducing in Post Offices letter and Mr C would have seen from online 
screens that he had the benefit of the bonus interest rate. The investigator also thought Mr C 
could have checked the position if he wasnt sure about that letter.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary he says its not reasonable for him to have 
recalled the terms and conditions about the fixed interest rate and questions if he would 
have seen the online information about it when he logged into his account. He accepts he 
may have acted hastily in closing the account but maintains the problem was with Post 
Offices letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Post Office hasnt misled Mr C or acted 
unfairly. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mr C opened the account at the end of 2019 and would have agreed to the 
account terms and conditions. Those terms and conditions say that Post Office can reduce 
an interest rate by giving notice. So, I dont think Post Office made a mistake by doing so 
here and was obliged to tell Mr C that the underlying interest rate was reducing. I have 
looked carefully at the letter and Im satisfied that no mention is made of the fixed rate bonus 
or that the rate was changing as well.
I appreciate that Mr C assumed the overall interest rate was reducing to .01% but I can see 
Post Office made clear that it was the underlying interest that was reducing. And I also think 
Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware that his account had effectively two interest rates 
which when combined gave him a total interest rate. I say that as the account was opened 
some four months before the interest rate letter, and I can see that clear information about 
the fixed rate bonus would have been visible to Mr C every time he used online banking 
including the time, he closed the account.
I think Mr C ought to have spoken to Post Office before he closed the account if he was 
unsure of the contents of the letter and I can see that he accepts he may have acted 
hastily.
Overall, I find that it was Mr Cs decision to close the account and so I cant fairly order Post 
Office to pay him any lost interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman