DRN-3758705
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with his request for a refund 
of several payments he made using his NatWest debit card.
What happened
Between 30 December 2019 and 17 February 2020, Mr C made several payments to a 
company Ill call S, using his NatWest VISA debit card. The payments were to buy a training 
course from S. Mr C said the course was then delayed by S several times due to the Covid-
19 pandemic before eventually, in September 2021, he decided to cancel it and ask for a full 
refund. Mr C told us he got no response from S, so he asked NatWest for a refund. 
NatWest looked at giving him a refund under the chargeback scheme. But the bank told him 
it couldnt return the payments to him as he was outside the time limits for such a refund. 
When Mr C complained about this, NatWest repeated this stance.
 
So, Mr C brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong as it had followed VISAs 
rules and those rules werent something we could comment on. Mr C didnt accept this. 
Briefly, he questioned why the chargeback time limit wasnt extended due to the pandemic 
when almost all other rules and regulations had been. So, his complaint was passed to me 
to review.
 
To try and resolve things informally, our investigator passed on my initial thoughts to Mr C. 
These set out why I also didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong here. Mr C wasnt 
happy with this and asked for a formal decision. Amongst other things, he asked why 
NatWest referred him to our service when it knew we couldnt comment on VISAs rules. He 
said that it was unacceptable that the time limit couldnt be extended. Mr C also said it was 
unacceptable that NatWest hadnt considered giving him a refund as a gesture of goodwill.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, Ive moved to issue a final decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: has NatWest acted unfairly and unreasonably by not giving 
Mr C a refund? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the law, relevant 
rules, guidance and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I would also make it clear that this complaint is about 
how NatWest dealt with Mr Cs request for a refund. As such, my decision is only looking at 
the actions of the bank, not S and not VISA. The actions of those companies dont fall within 
our remit here.
 
As Mr C used a debit card to make the payment to S, it was open to NatWest to attempt a 
chargeback to get him a refund. A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes can be resolved between card issuers, such as NatWest, and merchants, such as 
S. These disputes are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. The card scheme 
here is VISA. In certain circumstances, this process provides a way for NatWest to ask S to 
give Mr C a refund. This would include where goods or services arent supplied.
A chargeback isnt a consumer right. It doesnt guarantee a refund. Instead, its a process 
run entirely by the scheme provider under the rules that the provider sets. I would point out 
that NatWest is under no obligation at all to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it 
good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. But here, I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
I say that because of the time limits set down by the card scheme provider for raising a 
chargeback had expired. In Mr Cs situation, the relevant rules set out that the time limit for 
raising a chargeback is 540 calendar days from the date of the debit card payment. I can see 
Mr C made the last of the payments to S on 17 February 2020. I can also see he didnt ask 
NatWest for a refund until 29 October 2021  thats around 620 days after the last payment 
was made.
 
I fully understand and appreciate why Mr C didnt contact NatWest earlier about this, given 
the ongoing pandemic. But that doesnt mean the bank has done anything wrong here. 
When looking at raising a chargeback, NatWest has to follow the rules set out by the 
scheme provider  including the 540-day time limit. As above, this had already passed when 
Mr C asked the bank for a refund. Given this, there was never any reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback being successful. It follows that Im satisfied NatWest didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by not giving Mr C a refund.
 
I can see Mr C thinks its unacceptable that NatWest didnt consider giving him a refund on a 
goodwill basis. This option is of course always open to the bank. But thats a decision for 
NatWest not our service. Theres no law, rules or guidance requiring the bank to do this. Nor 
is it standard industry practice to expect a bank to compensate one of its customers for the 
failings of another business. So, theres no fair and reasonable basis for me to direct 
NatWest to give Mr C a refund, especially when Im satisfied its done nothing wrong here. 
Mr C has also questioned why, when nearly all aspects of everyday life were delayed due to 
the pandemic, the scheme provider isnt expected to make allowances to its normal rules 
and extend the 540-day deadline. As Ive said, the chargeback scheme is a voluntary 
scheme, not a consumer right or law. The chargeback rules and way the scheme provider 
runs it simply doesnt fall within our remit here, so I wont be commenting any further on this 
point.
 
Mr C has also asked why NatWest referred him to our service rather than the scheme 
provider. The Financial Conduct Authority sets out the rules for complaint handling in its 
handbook under the title DISP. These are available online. These rules set out that NatWest should give Mr C the right to refer his complaint to us. The bank would be failing in its 
regulatory obligations if it hadnt done so. 
In summary, Im satisfied NatWest hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr C a 
refund. I really do understand Mr Cs strength of feeling here and appreciate the situation 
hes in. But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
John Miles
Ombudsman