DRN-3709445
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly granted credit that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Mr W in June 2021. It provided an initial 
credit limit of £450. This was increased to £1450 in October 2021.
Mr W says NewDay were wrong to provided credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
NewDay disagree. It says when it approved the credit card application it reviewed Mr Ws 
credit file. It said there was only £400 of unsecured debt, 4 defaults (with the last one being 
recorded 21 months prior to the application) and 1 public record (recorded 15 months prior to 
the application). And when NewDay increased the credit limit, it said it had reviewed Mr Ws 
account performance and had found the credit affordable.
Our investigator thought that NewDay had carried out proportionate checks and that the 
lending decision was fair.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Account opening
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. It reviewed 
Mr Ws credit file and gathered information about his income and outgoings. I dont think the 
information gathered wouldve given cause for concern. The credit check showed a previous 
CCJ and 4 accounts in default. However, all of these were well over a year before the 
application. The credit checks also showed that Mr W had unsecured debt of £400, which 
was proportionate to his income of £21,400, and that there were no accounts in arrears.
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for NewDay to have completed any further 
checks. It didnt need to review Mr Ws bank statements.
Credit limit increase
NewDay has explained that it checked Mr Ws credit file and considered the information it 
had obtained about his income and expenditure before it approved the credit limit increase. It 
took account of Mr Ws account performance since it opened.
Because the credit limit was increased significantly, I think it wouldve been proportionate if, 
in addition to the checks already carried out, NewDay had carried out further checks to find 
out more about Mr Ws income and expenditure, including other credit commitments at the 
time.
Because of this, Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements for the last 3 months leading up to 
the credit limit increase. The statements show that Mr Ws monthly income was around 
£1500 and that he was making repayments to other credit providers. But theres nothing in 
the bank statements to suggest that the increased credit limit wasnt affordable, or that Mr W 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit. Therefore, had NewDay looked at this 
information, I think it wouldve reached the same conclusion and found the credit limit 
increase to be affordable.
I think NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the credit 
card and before approving the credit limit increase. These checks didnt identify any sign of 
financial difficulty or suggest that the loan was unaffordable. In the circumstances, I dont 
think the personal and financial problems Mr W was experiencing could fairly have been 
identified by NewDay and I dont think the credit was advanced irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman