DRN-3091825
The complaint
Miss P complained that Santander UK Plc recorded a missed payment on her credit file with 
the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Miss P holds a credit card account with Santander. She called Santander in March 2020 
when her circumstances changed meaning she needed to self-isolate as a result of the 
global pandemic. She told them this would impact on her income and wanted to know what 
support and assistance they could provide, as she was struggling to meet her payments.
Santander agreed to a reduced payment plan for three months. They said Miss P could 
make monthly payments of £30 by 3 April, 3 May and 3 June. 
Miss P attempted to make a payment of £30 on 2 April 2020 using the Santander banking 
application on her mobile phone. But after repeated attempts this was unsuccessful. So, she 
called Santander on 3 April 2020 and completed the payment.
Miss P says she attempted to make a further payment of £30 in May 2020. But this wasnt 
successful. So, she tried to call Santander to complete the payment. Miss P says she was 
unable to speak to anyone, so the payment wasnt completed.
Later in May, Miss P received a letter from Santander. They said she needed to pay £92. 
Miss P said she made a payment of £30 but was then told she needed to pay the remainder 
as her account was in default. So, she paid the amount owed in full.
In June 2020, Miss P contacted Santander as she was experiencing difficulties making 
payments due to the financial impact of the global pandemic. Santander agreed a three-
month payment deferral although Miss P says she didnt receive any correspondence to 
confirm this.
Miss P says that Santander recorded missed payments with the credit reference agencies. 
So, she contacted Santander in August 2020 to complain. Santander told Miss P they hadnt 
done anything wrong. They said they couldnt remove the missed payment recorded at the 
credit reference agency as shed missed the payment of £30 due by 3 May 2020.
Miss P wasnt happy with Santanders response to her complaint. So, she contacted this 
service to investigate matters further. One of our investigators looked into Miss Ps 
complaint. He didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. 
Miss P didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said that as shed paid £92 in May 
2020 within 30 days of when the payment was due, Santander shouldnt have recorded the 
missed payment. She also thought that the problems shed experienced with Santanders 
banking application had contributed to her payment being late.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Ps complaint has been referred to me to reach 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have confirmed that Miss P contacted them in March to explain her 
circumstances. At the time, no official guidance had been issued to banks as regards 
support available to any customers impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. So, 
Santander agreed to a reduced payment plan of £30 per month for three months. 
Santanders file notes confirm this. They explained the arrangement may be recorded on 
Miss Ps credit file with the credit reference agencies. But they couldnt be clearer on this 
until official guidance had been issued.
Miss Ps account statements show that she made a payment of £30 on 3 April 2020, as 
agreed. Information received from Santander about Miss Ps mobile banking application 
usage shows she did experience some issues with making this payment, although its 
unclear why. Miss P says the payment was ultimately completed by calling Santander on 3 
April 2020. On the basis her mobile banking history doesnt confirm completion of this 
payment, it would appear it was completed by another means, as Miss P suggests.
Miss Ps statements go on to show that no payment was received by 3 May 2020. She says 
she experienced the same issues with the banking application as she did in April. Ive looked 
at her mobile banking history. There is no record of either an attempted or unsuccessful 
payment being made at the beginning of May 2020. Also, Ive not been provided with any 
other evidence to suggest that a payment was attempted by any other means. 
Miss P told this service that she had tried to call Santander to make the payment but could 
not get hold of anyone. I can appreciate how frustrating it can be when attempts to call are 
unsuccessful. With the impact of the global pandemic, at the time, call volumes may well 
have been unusually high. I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for any increase in 
call volumes  they wouldnt have had control over that.
Miss P made a payment after she received a letter from Santander. Her June statement 
shows that a payment of £92 was received on 26 May 2020. In her response to our 
investigators view, Miss P said the full payment was paid in May and within 30 days of 
when the payment was due albeit late, I understand that banks should therefore not record a 
payment as late and impact someones credit file. The missed payment of £30 related to 
Miss Ps statement of 9 April 2020 with payment due by 3 May 2020. As the payment wasnt 
received before her next statement of 11 May 2020, it was deemed to have been missed.  
So, while I appreciate that Miss P may not agree, I think Santander were right to report that 
here - This was an accurate reflection of what actually happened.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
But this guidance hadnt been issued at the time Santander agreed the reduced payment 
plan with Miss P. So that arrangement didnt fall under these guidelines. I note that 
Santander subsequently agreed a three-month payment deferral with Miss P covering June 
July and August 2020. Santander have shown they didnt record anything adverse in relation 
to this payment deferral. So, this complied with the guidance issued by the FCA.
I want to stress to Miss P that I do appreciate and understand the difficulties she experienced during the global pandemic outbreak in early 2020. Her decision to contact 
Santander for support was a positive and responsible one. While I realise Miss P will be 
disappointed, I cant reasonably say that Santander have done anything wrong here. Miss 
Ps statements clearly show that the payment due by 3 May 2020 wasnt made. Santander 
have an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. And thats 
what they did. So, I shant be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman