DRN-2936268
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc unfairly recorded missed 
credit card account payments on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs C says she missed three credit card payments on her Marks and Spencer credit card 
account. She says she was unaware that she owed it any money as a different business, I 
will call A, had taken payments from that account and not her usual account. Mrs C says 
the payments were not authorised and Marks and Spencer agreed to refund the interest and 
charges but has refused to remove the late payment information from her credit file. She 
would like the adverse information removed from her credit file and says her credit score has 
significantly reduced. She also says she told Marks and Spencer that she moved address in 
2018.
Marks and Spencer says it has no record of being told of the address change and says it 
wrote to Mrs C at the address it held on its records telling her about the required payments. 
It says it blocked Mrs Cs account in October 2020 when it received returned mail and says it 
hasnt made a mistake by reporting accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). It also says Mrs C ought to have noticed the payments to A didnt come from her 
other account.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mrs C hadnt used her Marks and Spencer account since July 2020 
when she repaid the full balance and thought this was a genuine mistake that ought not be 
punished by adverse information remaining on her credit file for six years. The investigator 
thought Marks and Spencer had undermined its own position by refunding charges and 
interest.
Marks and Spencer doesnt accept that view and doesnt accept that by making the refund, 
that undermined its position. And says its obliged to report relevant and factual information 
to the CRAs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator but for slightly 
different reasons that I dont think requires a provisional decision.
Im satisfied that Marks and Spencer hasnt made a mistake here by applying the interest 
and charges in circumstances where Mrs C didnt make a required payment. Im also 
satisfied that Marks and Spencer wrote to Mrs C at the address it held on its records and I 
dont think it likely on balance that it was told of the new address until around November 
2020. I say that as if Mrs C had updated the address in 2018 then she ought to have noticed 
that she wouldnt have received any account statements or correspondence from that date, 
in circumstances where the account was still being used up to around July 2020.
I also agree with Marks and Spencer that Mrs C ought reasonably to have noticed which 
account that A had taken the payments from and that Marks and Spencer couldnt have 
reasonably known what had taken place. I make clear that I think Marks and Spencer acted 
fairly by refunding the interest and charges and I dont think it undermined its position here 
by doing so, in circumstances where it wasnt obliged to do so.
The key issue in this complaint is the reporting of the adverse information. I accept lenders 
should report accurate information about its customers accounts to the CRAs. But I dont 
think that means that a business cant fairly step back from reporting adverse information 
and can consider the wider picture and the circumstances of, as in this case, the missed 
payments. 
I have seen extracts from Mrs Cs credit file, and I am satisfied that her credit score was high 
and that there is unlikely to be any other adverse information reported on it. I can see that 
Mrs C repaid her debt to Marks and Spencer when she became aware of it. So, I have come 
to the overall view that by reporting the adverse information in these circumstances may not 
give other lenders a true and accurate picture of Mrs Cs credit risk. 
Overall, I think the fairest approach here would be to remove the adverse information from 
Mrs Cs credit file for the reasons I have explained. I fully understand what Marks and 
Spencer says about this complaint and I have made clear that I dont think it made a 
mistake. But Im satisfied that to continue to report the adverse information would be 
disproportionate and not an accurate reflection of a lending risk. 
Putting things right
Marks and Spencer should removed the missed payment information from Mrs Cs credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to remove any adverse information from Mrs Cs credit file about the late 
payments recorded on it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman