DRN-2529982
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Mrs H in June 2002 when she 
applied for the card through the post. 
Mrs H says through her representatives that she didnt need the policy. She says she had 
enough provisions at the time of sale in a time of need. She believes PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because she filled in an application form which asked her to say if 
she required PPI. And I can see that she ticked a box for PPI to indicate that she wanted 
to take it out. She could have left this box blank if she didnt want the insurance.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. It did have to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
It is possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think that clearer information would have made a 
difference to Mrs H adding the insurance anyway.  
I say this because although Mrs H told us that she was entitled to 6 months full sick 
pay, I can see the policy would have paid more than her minimum credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt work. This would have provided a useful 
extra benefit at a difficult time. And she doesnt appear to have had readily available 
other means to make her credit card repayments. She has mentioned items that she 
would have been able to sell if needed but having this cover in place would mean she 
wouldnt have needed to do that. She was also not affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively priced and affordable.
So, I think it unlikely Mrs H would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy. This means 
Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mrs H. But Barclaycard 
has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mrs H because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mrs 
H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
cover to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman