DRN-3973787
The complaint
Mr H says that when he needed a cracked windscreen to be replaced shortly after a new 
windscreen had been fitted, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and its agent provided 
poor service to him.
What happened
Mr Hs windscreen was replaced by Admirals agent (firm T) on 30 June 2022, but a crack 
appeared on 14 July 2022. Mr H reported it straight away. The next day he reported that 
another crack had appeared. Mr H thought the glass or the fitting of it must have been faulty. 
On 1 August 2022 one of firm Ts technicians examined the damage and said the cracks 
were caused by impacts to the windscreen. Mr H disagreed. He said both cracks started at 
its rubber surround and that there had been no impact with the new glass. He asked the 
technician to save the damaged windscreen as evidence, but that wasnt done. Mr H 
complained to Admiral the same day, but meanwhile he had to have a new windscreen 
fitted. As firm T didnt agree that the warranty applied, he had to pay the £115 policy excess.
Admiral supported firm Ts view, so Mr H asked us to review his complaint. One of our 
investigators concluded it was more likely than not that the cracks werent caused by 
impacts with the new windscreen. And she noted that firm T had limited Mr Hs options by 
disposing of it. In her opinion, Admiral should refund the £115 excess to Mr H. And as hed 
been inconvenienced, she thought it should also pay him £100 compensation.
Admiral said the most common cause of windscreen cracks is external influence. It said the 
technician should have pointed out the impact marks to Mr H, but it didnt think it was wrong 
to dispose of the damaged glass, as it was fragile. Later on Admiral provided images of the 
damage that were taken by firm T. The investigator didnt think they were clear, so her view 
remained the same. As there was no agreement, the complaint came to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its a common occurrence for a consumer to have a crack in their windscreen, let 
alone two cracks within two days  both starting from its rubber edge. Based on that alone, I 
think its more likely than not that the cracks werent caused by impacts to the glass. I dont 
think the images taken by firm T are clear enough to show that there were impact marks, but 
Mr H also took images of the damage. The one taken of the crack nearest to the passenger 
side door is particularly clear, and in my opinion it doesnt show any impact damage. 
Admiral has accepted that the technician didnt point out to Mr H where he thought the 
impact points were, which I think was a significant omission. And Mr Hs recollection is that 
the technician dealt with him flippantly. But had the damaged windscreen been retained, a 
further review of the cracks could have been done later on. No doubt the cracked glass was 
fragile, but Mr H made it clear on the day that the cause of the damage was disputed and 
that hed be making a complaint. In those circumstances I think it should have been possible 
for the windscreen to have been stored safely by firm T.
Taking everything into account, on the balance of probabilities I think its unlikely that two 
impacts caused two cracks in Mr Hs windscreen within two days. In the absence of  
evidence to the contrary, I think either the new glass or the fitting of it is more likely to have 
caused the damage, so I think it would be reasonable for Admiral to refund the £115 policy 
excess to Mr H, plus interest. Mr H was upset and inconvenienced by the dispute with firm T 
and Admiral. He also had to make arrangements to have a second new windscreen fitted 
very soon after the original replacement. So I think it would be reasonable for Admiral to pay 
him £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to refund Mr Hs £115 policy excess (plus interest, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, 
from the date of the payment to the date of settlement) and to pay him £100 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
If Admiral thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so Mr H can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman