DRN-4182605
The complaint
Mr B complains about unfair treatment when he applied to Santander UK Plc for a mortgage. 
He asks that it removes its credit search from his credit records and pays compensation for 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr B applied to re-mortgage with Santander via a broker. Santander instructed a valuation.
Following the valuation, Santander said it would require a full retention. Mr B complained 
about the behaviour of the surveyor as well as the content of the valuation report. The 
valuation was reviewed by another surveyor. This surveyor said the property wasnt suitable 
security and Santander declined to lend.
While this was ongoing, Mr Bs close family member died in distressing circumstances. Mr B 
says Santander didnt follow the TEXAS protocol or ask him what support it could provide. 
He says Santander didnt treat him as a vulnerable customer, despite him telling it about the 
death of a family member. He said all of his calls with Santander should be listened to.
Mr B says Santander misled him into paying for a building warranty. He says the valuer was 
racist and homophobic. And during the delays caused by Santander, interest rates increased 
and the interest rate product hes now taken out is more expensive. Mr B says he suffered 
considerable stress, worry and anxiety which caused a medical condition to develop.
Santander said it didnt offer a mortgage to Mr B because the valuer said the property wasnt 
suitable security. It acknowledged this had been a stressful situation for Mr B and paid him 
£100.
I sent a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold any parts of Mr Bs 
complaint. The reasons I gave are substantially as set out below. Santander said it had no 
further comments. Mr B didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr B says we need Santanders 
full notes and call recordings in response to a data subject access request to understand his 
complaint. I should explain that we can ask Santander to provide any information and 
evidence we consider relevant. Im satisfied that I have enough evidence to reach a fair 
decision about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs broker made a mortgage application on his behalf in mid-May 2022. The funds were 
for further improvements to Mr Bs property.
Did Santander consider Mr Bs application fairly when making a lending decision?
Santander instructed a valuation of the security property to help it make a decision on 
whether to lend. Id expect it to instruct a suitably qualified valuer, which I think was the case 
here.
The valuation was carried out on 23 May 2022. The valuation report said the property was a 
self-build barn conversion that wasnt completed. It said it should be confirmed that 
necessary consents were obtained and that a build warranty would be provided on 
completion. A value was provided for when the property was completed, but not at the time 
of the inspection. Santander applied a full retention.
Mr B and his broker queried the valuation, saying the building work was complete and 
warranties had been obtained. Santander raised this with the valuer, who said there were 
significant works still to be completed and the property wasnt habitable. Mr B disagreed. He 
asked for another valuation by a different valuer. He also complained about the conduct and 
behaviour of the valuer.
The valuation report was reviewed by a manager within the firm of surveyors. An amended 
valuation report was issued in mid-June 2022 which said the property was an incomplete 
self-build barn conversion and no warranty was available. It said the surrounding property 
and access were owned by the applicants family, with possible contiguous land issues. The 
report said the property wasnt readily saleable or mortgageable.
Santander provided, in confidence, its lending policy. Ive read its policy and Im satisfied it 
applied it correctly, based on the situation reported by the valuer. Santander asked the 
valuer to respond to the issues raised by Mr B and his broker. I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer as to the situation with the property and 
whether it was suitable security.
Did Santander cause delays or mislead Mr B about needing to pay for a warranty?
Santander instructed a valuation promptly. Mr B disagreed with the valuation report and 
asked for a re-valuation. Santander arranged for the valuation to be reviewed. It was 
inevitable this would add to the time taken. I dont think Santander caused any unreasonable 
delays.
The first valuation report said a building warranty would be needed. Had the mortgage gone 
ahead, its likely Santander would have asked Mr B to provide a building warranty. But I dont 
think its fair to say that Santander conned Mr B into paying for one.
Mr B said during a call with Santander in mid-June 2022 that he wasnt sure whether to 
make a payment to the architect so they would release their certificate. He wanted to know if 
the valuer was likely to change their view, which would mean the certificate wasnt needed to 
support his appeal. Mr B then said he had to pay the remaining balance to the architects at 
some point, so that they would release their certificate, but didnt want to make the payment 
early. In a later call Mr B said as he hadnt heard back from Santander hed gone ahead and 
paid for the architects certificate. I dont think its fair to say Mr B incurred this cost due to 
any error by Santander. Based on what Mr B said, this was the balance of the payments 
hed agreed with the architect.
Mr B must reasonably have known his appeal against the valuation report might not be 
successful. If Mr B paid for a new build warranty or guarantee, knowing there was a risk his 
appeal wouldnt be successful, it was Mr Bs own decision to do so. Mr B could have waited 
for the outcome of his appeal before paying for a building warranty.Did Santander deal fairly with Mr Bs concerns about the valuer?
Mr B says he was treated unfairly by the valuers because he made a complaint. He says 
there could be a perception that because hes a person thats gay and of colour hes 
expected to remain silent, be discriminated against and accept being treated poorly because 
if he doesnt he wont get a mortgage.
Mr B has said he feels the valuers actions are discriminatory on the basis of race and sexual 
orientation. I should explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning we 
dont have the power to decide whether or not a business is in breach of the Equality Act 
2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and 
regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. While I understand Mr Bs frustrations with the report given, I dont think 
Santander has acted unreasonable or unfairly. I say this because Im satisfied the decision 
made by Santander was made as a result of the surveys provided. I cant look into the 
allegation of discrimination against the valuer as this complaint is solely about the actions 
taken by Santander.
Santander forwarded Mr Bs complaint about the conduct of the valuer to the firm of 
surveyors. I think thats the correct approach, as Santander isnt responsible for the 
behaviour of the individual valuer.
Santander referred Mr Bs concerns to the firm of surveyors, which I think is fair for the 
reasons I explained above. The valuation was reviewed by a manager in the firm of 
surveyors. This resulted in a further concern  that the surrounding property and access 
were owned by the applicants family, with possible contiguous land issues. So, while I 
appreciate Mr B feels this was raised due to his sexual orientation and race, after listening to 
the calls I am satisfied the surrounding land is owned by his family. So I think this was a 
genuine issue which the valuer needed to raise and would have raised as an issue with any 
other consumer in the same circumstances as Mr B.
Im satisfied that the reason Santander declined to offer Mr B a mortgage was because the 
property wasnt suitable security. The valuation report set out why the valuers didnt consider 
the property to be suitable security, and I think, in the circumstances, it was reasonable for 
Santander to rely on their expert opinion.
Did Santander respond correctly when Mr B told it he was vulnerable?
During the application process, a close family member of Mr B died in distressing 
circumstances. Mr B told Santander about his bereavement and the circumstances. When 
he brought the complaint to us, Mr B said Santander didnt follow the TEXAS protocol or ask 
him about additional support or his needs. He says he told Santander he was vulnerable and 
riddled with anxiety and stress.
We asked Santander to comment on this. Santander says Mr B didnt provide information 
about his bereavement that affected the complaint issue, which is about the valuation and 
Santanders decision not to lend. However, Santander was made aware that Mr B raised this 
when he bought the complaint to us, and I think this forms part of his complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Bs calls, to understand what Mr B told Santander about his needs and 
what support Santander could or should have offered.
Mr B told Santander about his bereavement and that he was suffering anxiety and distress. I 
think Santander responded sympathetically. All of Mr Bs calls with Santander related to his 
application, and in particular to issues with the valuation.Its clear from the calls that Mr B wanted Santander to offer the mortgage, and Ive no doubt 
that he was disappointed when the valuation report meant this didnt happen. Its also clear 
from the calls that Mr B wanted the matter resolved quickly. Ive already explained why I 
think Santander was entitled to decline the application, and that I dont think it caused 
unnecessary delays.
Im not persuaded that applying the TEXAS protocol was required or that it would have made 
things easier for Mr B. His bereavement didnt have any effect on the lending decision made 
by Santanders underwriters. I dont think referring Mr B to its vulnerable customers team 
would have helped  this team wouldnt have been able to deal with Mr Bs application or 
give Mr B an answer any sooner. And theres no suggestion Mr B needed help in 
communicating with Santander.
Mr B was in an application process and a broker was acting on his behalf. While I can 
understand that Mr B wanted to speak directly to Santander to explain why he disputed what 
the valuer said about his property, if he found this difficult or upsetting, he did have the 
option of asking that all communication was via the broker. If Mr B needed help and advice 
about his options when Santander declined his application this could appropriately be 
offered by the broker. So I dont think Santander needed to signpost Mr B to any external 
organisations for advice.
Mr B had suffered a bereavement and told Santander he was anxious and vulnerable. Id 
expect Santander to be sympathetic and understanding when talking to Mr B, and I think it 
was.
Mr Bs request for information
Mr B has said hed like copies of information held by Santander. He is of course entitled to 
make a request to Santander under the General Data Protection Regulation. This wasnt part 
of the complaint brought to us or raised with Santander, and so I cant look into it here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman