The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) poorly handled his breakdown cover claim.
Any reference to UKI in this final decision includes its appointed representatives in this case.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr W accidentally filled up his vehicle tank with the wrong fuel. So he called 
UKI to make a claim under his breakdown cover. 
Mr W says UKI told him that assistance would be provided under the policy, and that hed be 
taken to the nearest garage for the fuel to be drained. He then received a follow up call from 
UKI, where he was told the fuel drainage wouldnt be covered under his policy and that hed 
have to pay UKI £150 if hed like it to arrange this for him. 
Mr W says he didnt have any bank cards with him at the time to make the payment, so he 
instead walked several miles back home to get them, and paid £180 for a third-party 
company to drain the fuel from his car.
Mr W complained to UKI about the service he received. He said his policy documents state 
hes covered for this type of incident. He said hed called a few weeks prior to the breakdown 
to check he had the highest level of cover  and UKI told him he did. 
Mr W explained that he was an older man, with health problems, who had to walk miles to 
get his bank cards. This is because, when he informed UKI he couldnt pay, it didnt bother to 
honour the terms of his breakdown cover  or at least get him to the nearest repair centre. 
And he says UKIs call handlers were argumentative on the phone. He wanted UKI to cover 
the third-party costs he had to pay to get the fuel drained.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that on 1 July 2018, it took the business decision 
to no longer include cover for drainage of fuel under the breakdown policy. And that Mr W 
shouldve reasonably been aware of this, as UKI set out this change in the Important 
Information  leaflet which was included alongside the documents it sent to him when he 
renewed his policy in June 2019.  
UKI says it listened to the calls Mr W had with its agents and that he was offered recovery  
or for a fuel drainage company to attend to his vehicle at the side of the road. But that either 
way he would have to pay a fee for the fuel to be drained. It says that Mr W told the agent to 
cancel the job, and while he made a comment about needing to check if he had his cards, he 
didnt elaborate any further on this. So it says its agent never had the opportunity to assist 
him any further or look at an alternative solution, and it didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service, saying he never received details of the change at 
renewal. But on balance of the information available, our investigator was satisfied that UKI 
DRN-1326363sent this information to him and that it was clear about the change. So she didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr W disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has a Recovery Plus  breakdown policy with UKI which features a level of cover for 
misfuelling. But like most insurance policies, this cover is subject to certain terms, 
conditions and exclusions.
Page 21 of the policy booklet applicable to Mr Ws cover says:
MISFUELLING
WHATS COVERED
If youve taken out Rescue Plus, Recovery, Recovery Plus or EuroPlus (sections B, C, D or 
E on your schedule), well provide cover for you, your passengers and your vehicle to be 
recovered to the nearest repair centre to where the misfuelling happened.
WHATS NOT COVERED
The cost of draining and disposing of the contaminated fuel. Any damage to your vehicle if 
youve put the wrong fuel in and its damaged the engine, you might be able to claim 
towards that on your vehicle insurance. Any of the above costs if you use the wrong fuel 
outside the UK.
Im satisfied the terms make it clear that Mr W isnt covered for the drainage of the fuel from 
his vehicle. But Mr W says this term only exists in a newer version of the policy booklet  
which he never received. However, UKI says this wouldve been sent to him at his policy 
renewal in June 2019, along with the Important Information leaflet detailing the change to 
misfuelling cover.
Ive seen evidence from UKI that the change to the misfuelling cover became effective on 1 
July 2018. And Ive also seen a copy of the leaflet it said was sent to customers at renewal, 
which sets out this change. The leaflet starts by saying  Weve made some changes to 
your breakdown cover from this renewal. This leaflet tells you what the main changes are. 
Please read it with your policy booklet and documents. If you have any questions, please 
contact us. Well be happy to help you. 
Below this is a table which sets out the Current Cover and Cover from your renewal date. 
And the updated misfuelling terms as set out above are included underneath this heading  
notifying the policyholder of the change. Mr W doesnt dispute the clarity of this information, 
but says he never received it. So Ive thought about this carefully. 
The wording used at the start of the leaflet persuades me that it wouldve been sent out at 
renewal, most likely alongside policy documents. And UKI has provided screenshots to show 
that this leaflet was applicable to the time period that covered Mr Ws renewal date. So on 
balance, I think its more likely than not UKI sent this information to him. Therefore, I think he 
shouldve reasonably been aware that he was no longer covered for fuel drainage  before 
the incident he attempted to claim for. It follows I wont be directing UKI to pay the costs he 
incurred to have this job carried out himself.Mr W says that UKI failed to at least get him to the nearest garage. And left him with no 
other option than to walk home, as he didnt have his bank cards to pay for the drainage 
service. But Ive listened to the calls Mr W had with UKI. And it seems UKI did initially offer 
and arrange recovery, but later called Mr W to say that it could arrange for the work to be 
done at the roadside instead. Arguably, this would most likely have been an easier option for 
Mr W.
But Mr W became unhappy when the call handler explained that hed still need to pay a fee 
for this service. He then said he wasnt sure whether he had his cards with him and then told 
the call handler to cancel the job and that he was going elsewhere. He then hung up the 
phone. It seems therefore that UKI never had the opportunity to explore any further 
alternatives with Mr W, before he disconnected the call. So I dont think it couldve done 
much more in these circumstances. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further. Ive considered all of Mr Ws comments, including what hes said about UKIs call 
handlers being argumentative and that the policy booklet available online still states that fuel 
drainage is covered. 
But Ive listened to the calls Mr W had with UKI, and I dont think the call handler came 
across as argumentative, and both parties seemed reasonably amicable throughout. And 
Ive checked the policy booklet online, and from what Ive seen, the misfuelling term is the 
same as the one set out above. So these points dont change my conclusion.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W, because he thinks by us not 
upholding his complaint, were calling him a liar. But this simply isnt the case. Generally, in 
circumstances such as these  where one party says something was sent, and the other 
says they never received it, I have to base my decision on the evidence available and whats 
most likely. And in doing so, Ive reached a decision that I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case, for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman