DRN-3315108
The complaint
Mr A complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide a loan so he could purchase a timeshare 
product, without checking if he could afford to pay the money back, and then refuse to 
consider claims he made about the product being mis-sold.
Ive referred to Mr A alone in this decision because, whilst the timeshare agreement is in 
the joint names of Mr A and his partner, the finance agreement is in Mr As sole name. This 
means hes the eligible complainant who can bring the complaint to this service.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company but I will refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr A had said it himself, to keep things 
simple.
What happened
Mr A purchased this product in September 2012 with a point of sale loan from BPF. The 
product cost just over £8,000 and Mr A agreed to pay back over £15,000, including 
interest, over ten years at £129 a month. Mr A says the timeshare product was 
misrepresented, he was treated unfairly during the sale process and BPF didnt carry out 
proper checks to ensure that he could afford the borrowing. Mr A complained to BPF and 
asked for a refund. His representatives said (in summary)
this was a complex and sophisticated product which was mis-sold;
Mr A was subject to aggressive commercial practices and pressured into signing 
the timeshare agreement and taking out the finance;
the product was misrepresented in that (amongst other things) availability was an 
issue - meaning Mr A was unable to use the product in the way described - and 
supposedly exclusive resorts were, in fact, open to non-members at less cost;
the product provider - as credit broker - failed to carry out a satisfactory 
affordability assessment and this relationship was fiduciary in nature imposing a 
common law duty to obtain the informed consent of Mr A to the receipt of 
commission, which was not obtained;
BPF was under a duty to disclose commission details but the existence and 
amount of commission paid by BPF to the product supplier wasnt declared and 
this information still hasnt been provided;
BPF is liable for statements and misrepresentations made by the product provider 
acting as BPFs agent in pre-contract negotiations under section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and BPF is equally liable with the product 
provider under section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract; and
misrepresentations made are part of the reason the debtor-creditor relationship 
was unfair under section 140 of the CCA.
BPF didnt provide a final response within the time it was supposed to, so Mr A referred 
the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. He didnt 
think Mr A had supplied any information or evidence to suggest the lending was 
unaffordable and he wasnt persuaded it was irresponsible of BPF to lend. 
He acknowledged a lender is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under section 75 
of the CCA. But, he thinks the time to bring a like claim against the lender would expire 
at the same time as any claim against the supplier under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) - 
and its reasonable to take this into account. So, he went on to consider relevant time 
limits under the LA.
Mr A says the timeshare product was misrepresented. The investigator was satisfied he 
has six years under the LA to bring this sort of claim - and the same time frame applies for 
claims under statute and contract. The investigator thought a misrepresentation claim can 
be made once the person bringing the claim has suffered damage. And any damage here 
would have occurred when Mr A experienced financial loss as a result of purchasing the 
timeshare  in that, Mr A says he bought the timeshare due to the suppliers 
misrepresentations and he wouldnt have done so but for those misrepresentations  so 
the point of loss was when Mr A entered into the timeshare transaction. It was at that 
stage he accepted the cost and any potential benefit under the contract. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr A may not have known that he could raise concerns 
about misrepresentation until later than this, but hes satisfied the relevant time limits start 
to run from the date of loss - which may fall earlier than the date Mr A realised something 
might have gone wrong. He found Mr A needed to raise his claim under section 75 no 
later September 2018, but he didnt complain to BPF until July 2019 - nearly a year later.
The investigator also looked at section 140A of the CCA - which allows the courts to make 
an order under section 140B if it is determined that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor. The investigator was 
satisfied that the LA applies to a section 140A claim and Mr A would have needed to bring 
any such claim no later than October 2018 - because he paid back what he owed in 
October 2012. Mr A didnt raise his claim with BPF until 2019 and the investigator 
considered its more than likely time barred under the LA.
The investigator recognised its ultimately a matter for the courts to decide whether or not 
any claim Mr A may have has expired under the LA. But, he was satisfied it looks as if Mr 
As section 75 claim against the supplier and any like claim against BPF - along with any 
claim under section 140A - had more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits. He 
didnt think it was unreasonable to take this into account and he wasnt persuaded it was 
wrong of BPF to decline Mr As claims. So, he didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr A didnt agree. His representatives said (in summary):-
the investigator is wrong about the limitation periods for claims under section 75 
and section 140A  these havent expired and/or they are extended under section 
32 of the LA;Mr A wasnt a sophisticated purchaser and he was unaware of the actual 
characteristics of the product until many years later, such as the near perpetual 
length with unlimited liability for management fees  which was unduly onerous;
purchasing this product without specialist advice put Mr A at a disadvantage and 
this inequality gives rise to the unfair debtor-creditor relationship;
the existence and amount of commission was concealed and still hasnt 
been revealed; and
Mr A was unable to ascertain the facts by the exercise of reasonable diligence 
and he couldnt reasonably be expected to know that he had cause for complaint 
until he sought appropriate advice in March 2019.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He thinks the complaint should be 
upheld and he should receive a full refund plus interest.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold Mr As complaint. 
My reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 November 2021 to let the parties see my provisional 
findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final 
decision. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally  and why  and this forms 
part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits 
of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr As representatives have made detailed submissions which include references to 
various regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account 
of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice 
and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr A, if I dont 
address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate here 
on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr A brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and our 
investigator thinks any right he has to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats 
correct, I think its something BPF could reasonably take into account when considering 
Mr As claims. I should make it clear at the outset however that Im not deciding if any 
right that Mr A may have to bring a claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for 
the courts. In this decision, Im considering whether I think BPF should reasonably have 
accepted Mr As claims.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in 
certain circumstances. I havent considered if the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required under section 75 is present here because Im not minded to uphold 
this complaint for other reasons  as set out below.
Mr A claims misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are 
relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums 
recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six 
years from the date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date on which the 
cause of action accrued in this case will be the same as the date upon which the 
misrepresentation alleged under section 75 became actionable  that is the date the 
damage is suffered.
I say this because Im satisfied that any relevant damage would have been incurred when 
Mr A purchased the timeshare and took out the finance - in September 2012. Amongst 
other things, it was at this stage he paid for the benefits which he says were 
misrepresented and incurred liability for management fees  which are the only financial 
losses identified by Mr As representatives in correspondence with the product supplier.
In light of the above, I think Mr A would have needed to bring any claim under section 75 
within six years of the date of the timeshare transaction itself. Im satisfied that more than 
six years had passed since that date before Mr A contacted BPF, in July 2019. I think the 
period within which Mr A had to bring an action under section 75 had likely run out by this 
point. And I cant reasonably conclude that its wrong of BPF to decline Mr As section 75 
claim in these circumstances.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law so I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr A had to bring a claim here is six years 
from the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. From the information I have, it looks 
as if Mr A paid off the loan in October 2012. BPF has confirmed that the balance was 
cleared at that stage. Mr As representatives disagree  they say the last payment was 
made in 2020.
Ive seen nothing to show that additional funds were drawn down on the account after 
the balance was paid in 2012. And its difficult to see why Mr A would have continued 
making payments towards this account as the balance was repaid about a month after 
he took the initial loan out. I can see that Mr A bought another timeshare product in 
2014 - which was funded by a different lender. I think its possible theres been some 
confusion and this may be the finance that Mr As representatives say was paid off in 
2020.
On the evidence I have at the moment, in respect of the loan BPF provided, Im 
satisfied that this was probably repaid in full in October 2012 and BPF didnt provide 
any further lending on this account. I think this means Mr A needed to bring any claim 
under section 140A no later than October 2018. Im satisfied he didnt raise his claim 
with BPF until July 2019 - which is more than six years after time started running. Im 
minded to find any right Mr A had to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired 
at that stage. And Im not persuaded its unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim, in 
these circumstances.Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr A may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some 
thought to what his representatives say about the impact of section 32 of the LA  which 
relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are 
found - or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered. However, for the reasons 
Ive set out below, Im not persuaded that this assists Mr A in these particular 
circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr A used the timeshare product in 2012. And, given the nature of the 
misrepresentations alleged, I think its likely he realised he wasnt receiving the services 
he expected and the benefits he says he was told (at the outset) would be provided may 
have been misrepresented. I think this conclusion is supported by information that Mr A 
provided in a short statement Ive seen. Mr A says he received an update in 2014 from 
representatives of the product provider about points overselling. I think the fact that this 
information was provided by way of an update suggests Mr A was already aware that 
there might be issues with the product  and hed probably known about this for some 
time.
On balance, I am minded to find its more likely than not Mr A had enough information to 
start the clock running shortly after he purchased this timeshare in September 2012. I 
consider this information would probably have been sufficient to enable him to bring the 
relevant claims here. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect him to have done so 
within the time limits referred to above.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I have considered the submissions Mr As 
representatives made about the payment of commission by BPF to the product provider 
for arranging the loan. They say BPF should have told Mr A about any such commission 
and its wrong that this still hasnt been disclosed.
BPF told us it doesnt have a record of what, if any, commission was paid to the supplier. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I think if any commission was paid (which is not certain) this 
probably didnt exceed 10%. I cant see that BPF breached any duty in making such a 
payment. Im not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of 
any commission paid. And, as far as Im aware, the levels of commission that were 
normally paid in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean 
that BPF should have appreciated not telling Mr A about commission risked the debtor-
creditor relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I should also make it clear that I dont think the product provider was required to disclose 
that it might have received a commission to Mr A either. Im not persuaded the product 
provider was acting as agent to Mr A or owed him a fiduciary duty in this situation. And Im 
satisfied its role wasnt to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation.
In light of my provisional findings above, Im not persuaded that section 32 helps Mr A. In 
any event, as Ive said already, I think if any commission was paid it probably wouldnt 
have been more than 10%. So, even if Mr A could rely on section 32, I consider its 
unlikely a court would find any commission paid created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
Section 14A LA
Section 14A (which provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be 
made) hasnt been raised specifically by the parties but Ive thought about whether it takes matters any further here. Ive considered what happened when Mr A purchased 
the timeshare and took out the finance as well as the relevant documentation. And, 
whilst I accept there was an obligation to give Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the 
finance, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give 
rise to a claim to which this section could apply.
unaffordable lending
Mr A also says proper credit checks were not carried out before lending and it was 
irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan. His representatives consider the loan had all the 
hallmarks of unaffordable credit. They highlight the APR of just over 17% when (they say) 
mortgage rates were much lower at the relevant time - and they consider no (or no proper) 
affordability checks were undertaken.
I accept BPF was required to undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mr A was likely to be 
able to afford to repay the borrowing here without too much trouble. But, even if I were to 
find BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, I would still need to be 
satisfied that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr A to reasonably uphold this part of 
his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr As circumstances at the relevant time. But, I can 
see he confirms (in responses to questions about affordability in a questionnaire he 
completed for his representatives) that he didnt experience any difficulties repaying the 
loan, he didnt have to borrow to meet the loan repayments and he didnt miss any other 
payments as they fell due because he had to make payments due under this agreement. 
For the reasons Ive given above, I think it looks as if Mr A repaid the loan in full about a 
month after he took it out. I havent seen any evidence from Mr A - or elsewhere - that 
suggests the loan was unaffordable for him and I cant reasonably uphold this part of the 
complaint.
conclusion
As our investigator has explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr 
A may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see 
from the information I have, any claim that Mr A might have against the supplier and/or 
BPF has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think it is reasonable to 
take this into account in these circumstances.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr A unfairly or acted 
unreasonably and I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr A or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
information by 24 December 2021. I explained that I would review all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision.
BPF told us it has no further submissions. We didnt hear from Mr A so I allowed a little 
more time for him to provide a response and the date set for that has now passed. Mr A hasnt raised any objection to my provisional findings or provided any further evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr A unfairly or acted unreasonably. 
And I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr A or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman