DRN-4009964
The complaint
Ms B, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to her when she could not afford it.
What happened
Ms B took two loans from Everyday Lending. Here is a brief table of her borrowing. 
Loan Approved Amount Term and repayment Paid off
1 17 December 
2017£1,200 £1,834.44 over 12 months at 
£152.87 each monthSettled using 
loan 2
2 17 August 2018 £3,200 £8,142.54 over 42 months at 
£193.87 each monthSettled March 
2022
Everyday Lending settled loan 1 using loan 2 funds, plus it paid off a credit card directly with 
a cheque (£152) and the balance paid to Ms B was £2,528.75. There was an account note 
which indicated Ms B was going to use it to pay off a mail order account balance and use the 
rest for home improvements. 
Everyday Lending reviewed her payslips and her bank statements for both loans.
After Ms B had received the final response letter (FRL) from Everyday Lending, her 
representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. 
Our adjudicator thought that loan 2 ought not to have been approved for Ms B and so he 
thought it should put things right for her for loan 2 only. Everyday Lending did not reply to 
that outcome. Ms Bs representative did not respond either. 
The unresolved complaint was referred to me after both parties had been notified that it was 
being referred to an ombudsman on 7 March 2023. Neither party has sent in any further 
comments or evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Ms B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to whether Everyday Lending carried out proportionate checks, it has said it 
obtained and reviewed Ms Bs bank statements for two months and a credit search. It also 
checked where she worked. 
Everyday Lending said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense 
element of affordability. Everyday Lending had set this as 35% of a customers net income. 
This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, household 
composition and residential status. 
Everyday Lending has demonstrated through notes on the documents and having viewed 
Ms Bs payslips that it used the lowest salary figure it had seen which was £1,257.88 as take home pay each month. It knew her rent was £450. There are at least two notes in the 
documentation to demonstrate that Ms B had said to Everyday Lending that of the £450 rent 
her grown-up son paid £200 a month. However, it seems that Everyday Lending did not add 
this into its calculations. And I consider that the prudent and correct approach to take as Id 
consider that monthly cash contribution from her son an arrangement which was relatively 
loose and may have come to an end if , for instance, her son had moved out. 
It said its affordability calculation showed that Ms B would have a monthly disposable 
income of £63.91 after taking into account her new Everyday Loan monthly repayments. 
This figure is from the excel spreadsheet Everyday Lending submitted to us to demonstrate 
its income and expenditure (I&E) calculations. However, the FRL indicated that figure was 
£49.33 after accounting for the Everyday Loans loan 1. I am more inclined to accept the I&E 
figures on the spreadsheet as the FRL may have been incorrect. 
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case and didnt indicate 
that the repayments on the loan were likely to be unsustainable for Ms B. The loan was 
relatively modest and for a relatively short period and so although the figures were close, 
I consider that the approach was sound and in summary, I dont find that Everyday Lending  
did anything wrong when it provided this loan to Ms B. Her credit commitments in 
December 2017 when she applied for loan 1 were light. 
Loan 2
Everyday Lending carried out similar checks for Loan 2. Ms Bs expenses were similar. The 
income figure it used was £1,229.56. However, her debt had increased. And whilst I accept 
that the overall debt figures may not have been as high as I see with some customers 
applying to Everyday Lending for loans, here Ms B was a relatively low earner. And so for 
Ms B I think that the overall debt was quite a lot for her.  
I think the point to note here is that the figures were very tight and there was an account note 
for loan 2 in which the Everyday Lending representative had written that down. So, using its 
own evidence I can see that this loan was unaffordable for Ms B. 
It said its affordability calculation showed that Ms B would have a monthly disposable 
income of £6.40 after taking into account her new Everyday Loan monthly repayments. And 
so even on its own figures this would have been far too little left over for this to be 
considered sustainable for Ms B especially as the loan was due to last for a further 
42 months.
I uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 2. 
Putting things right
I understand that loan 2 has been repaid. To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2,
treat any payments made by Ms B in respect of this loan as payments towards the capital 
amount of £3,200,
If Ms B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to her 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint in part. Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right for Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman