DRN-3827088
The complaint
Miss M complains that QIC Europe Ltd cancelled her motor insurance policy and declined 
her claim.
What happened
Miss M took out a motor insurance policy with QIC through an online comparison site. She 
later tried to make a claim on her policy. QIC said shed answered the question it asked 
about previous claims within the past five years incorrectly. And it considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel the policy, 
decline the claim and retain her premiums. Miss M said she had tried to answer the question 
correctly. She thought there had been a technical error. 
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
thought QIC had asked a clear question about previous claims and Miss M had answered 
this question incorrectly. She thought Miss M had sought multiple quotes on the comparison 
site she used for policies with and without the claim. She saw that QIC wouldnt have offered 
a policy if Miss M had answered the question correctly. 
She thought Miss M had made a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation. And so 
she thought QIC was entitled to cancel the policy, decline the claim and retain the premiums. 
Miss M was also unhappy with QICs level of service. But the Investigator thought this was 
professional and direct. 
Miss M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
She said shed always declared the claim in previous years with other insurers and she had 
declared a conviction correctly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
stated in her application through the online comparison site that she had no claims in the 
previous five years. Ive looked at the question Miss M was asked. This was,
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, no matter who was 
at fault or if a claim was made?
A help box stressed the importance of answering this question correctly. And Miss M was 
asked the same question again when she was put through to QICs brokers website. Im 
satisfied this is a clear question asked by QIC. 
Miss M did have a previous claim and she was aware of this, but she answered No. This is 
shown on a screenshot provided by QIC. Miss M said she had the claim details with her at 
the time and had included it in her applications in previous years. She thought this may not 
have been included in her application due to a technical error. 
But Im not convinced by this. This is because I can see from QICs evidence that Miss M 
had made multiple quotes with and without the claim. The evidence shows the dates and 
times the quotes were taken. Miss M questioned this evidence. But Im satisfied that it shows 
that she sought quotes with and without the claim added. 
I also think that if Miss M had concerns about the site she used, then she should have 
checked her policy documents when they were issued to her. The Statement of Facts 
doesnt show any previous claims. And I think Miss M should have told QIC about the error. 
But she didnt do this. So Im satisfied Miss M didnt take reasonable care to answer QICs 
question about previous claims correctly. 
QIC has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Miss M hadnt 
made the misrepresentation, then it wouldnt have offered a policy at all. This means Im 
satisfied Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Miss M said that when QIC first found that the claim wasnt on her policy, it told her it would 
add it and then her new claim would continue. But I can see that the policy couldnt be 
offered with the claim added. And so QIC had no alternative but to cancel the policy. 
QIC has said Miss Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because it thought she 
had knowingly given the incorrect information to get a cheaper premium. And I agree that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless as Miss M obviously knew the information was 
important to QIC, but she didnt correct this on the Statement of Fact she was provided, and 
she sought multiple quotes without the claim added. 
As Im satisfied Miss Ms misrepresentation should be treated as reckless or deliberate Ive 
looked at the actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA:
Deliberate or reckless
The insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums
If theres a claim the insurer doesnt have to pay this as effectively the policy never 
existed
The insurer may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim after 
the misrepresentation
Therefore, Im satisfied QIC was entitled to avoid Miss Cs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, QIC does not have to deal with 
her claim following the accident, and its entitled to retain her premiums. 
But QIC didnt avoid Miss Ms policy. It cancelled it in line with its policy terms. Its entitled to 
take that action. But if an insurer chooses to cancel the policy rather than avoid it, then its 
making a decision that the policy was live and active up to the point it cancelled. So if it 
received a claim for something that happened during that time, wed expect it to be assessed 
in line with the policy terms.
And I can see that QIC did this in its response to Miss Ms complaint. I can see that the 
policy terms and conditions state that where any inaccurate information isnt corrected, then QIC can cancel the policy and decline the claim. So Im satisfied that QIC was entitled to 
decline the claim. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing QIC to rely on it to cancel Miss Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman