DRN-1078534
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a loan. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr S took out a BoS loan. It had a fixed interest rate. He says he was told by BoS 
that after six months he could be given a lower rate. Hes since tried to get a new loan with a 
lower rate. But each time hes been unsuccessful. Hes unhappy that BoS hasnt explained 
why. And he feels, as he cant get a lower rate, his loan was mis-sold. 
In response to Mr S complaint BoS said he was ineligible for a loan. It said it cant provide a 
definitive reason for this. It said thats a business sensitive decision. And its said it wouldnt 
have told Mr S, when he was taking out his loan, that he would be able to get a lower rate at 
a later date.
Our Investigator said he hadnt seen enough to make him think BoS did tell Mr S he would 
get a lower interest rate after six months. He didnt recommend it do anything differently. 
Mr S didnt accept that assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making BoS do 
anything differently.
I accept its possible BoS told Mr S he would get a lower interest rate after six months. But it 
would be unusual for that happen. So for me to think it probably did, Id have to see 
something to support what he says. Unfortunately I havent seen anything that does. 
BoS says theres no record on its system of him being told he would get a lower rate later 
on. And it says its staff couldnt provide a guarantee on what rates could be provided in the 
future. So I accept its possible Mr S was misled during the sale of the loan. But I havent 
seen enough to make me think he probably was. So I cant say the loan was mis-sold. 
BoS says Mr S wasnt eligible for a new loan. So it wasnt possible for him to apply. It hasnt 
provided its reason for that as it says its commercially sensitive. 
Overall I cant say BoS has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Bank of Scotland Plc do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman