DRN-2953250
The complaint
M, a business, complaints that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage on its farm insurance policy. Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and 
claim handlers.
What happened
The business is represented in this complaint by Mr J. During particularly stormy weather a 
neighbour advised that a large amount of brown flood water was pouring out of a long 
driveway. When Mr J arrived he said there was a torrent of flood water that lasted an entire 
day while attempts were made to salvage what was left of the driveway. 
The heavy rainfall washed away the gravel from a driveway and undermined the foundations 
of a concrete culvert. Mr J said the concreted section of the drive had been installed about 
fifteen years ago to strength the access for heavy vehicles. Itd been inspected every year 
and no issues had been noted. 
But Mr J said the claim had been dismissed by UKI who said damage to the drive wasnt 
covered by the policy. Mr J said the business had carried out remedial work and he wants 
UKI to pay for repairs to the concrete section.
UKI said Mr J had accepted the gravel section of the driveway wasnt covered because it 
didnt fit the relevant policy description. UKI said itd reviewed the damage to the concrete 
culvert that formed part of the driveway. But it felt the concrete had cracked because of a 
gradually operating cause and the damage was therefore excluded under the policy terms 
and conditions. 
UKI said its inspection suggested water from the culvert had eroded the ground over a 
period of time and undermined the culvert. Although it was possible a surge of water during 
the storm couldve eroded it away in a single incident, there were signs of lichen growth on 
the fence post and moss on the exposed soil underneath the culvert. 
As these wouldve taken some time to develop it suggested the surfaces had been exposed 
to air for a lengthy period. And it was therefore likely the soil had eroded away before the 
storm occurred.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She didnt think UKI had acted fairly. After considering the reports our 
investigator didnt think UKI had provided sufficient evidence to decline the concrete element 
of the case due to gradual deterioration. 
She felt it was 50/50 whether the area had eroded over time or because of a one-off insured 
event. And she didnt think UKI could fairly rely on the exclusion for gradually operating 
causes. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by the insurers comments on the moss and lichen. She 
didnt think the insurer had shown the erosion had definitely taken place before the storm. 
As an improved culvert system was now in place, our investigator felt UKI should only make 
a settlement based on works it wouldve done to the original concrete section. And she 
recommended UKI reimburse for the damage from the storm to the concrete element subject 
to invoices from the insured. 
UKI didnt accept our investigators findings. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
It said the floral growth on the soil surfaces supported its decision to decline the claim due to 
gradual deterioration. 
UKI didnt feel it was a 50/50 matter. UKI said it was improbable a storm event couldve 
washed away the soil. The growth of flora proved the soil had eroded away before the storm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The definitions listed in the insurance policy includes cover for forecourts, yards, terraces, 
drives or footpaths that are constructed of concrete, asphalt or paving. But it doesnt include 
cover for gravel driveways. 
Mr J accepts that means the damage caused to the gravel section of the drive isnt covered 
by the policy. But he feels the policy should cover damage to the concrete culvert system 
that takes water from the upper side to the lower side of the drive. 
Like all policies there are exclusions that apply which limit the damage UKI is liable for. The 
main disagreement of this claim is whether the ground was washed away over time and 
therefore excluded under the gradually operating clause of the policy, or whether the ground 
under the concrete section was washed away during a one-off single insured event  in this 
case the storm.
As our investigator has explained, our service normally considers three main questions when 
looking at claims for storm damage. The first thing we look at in this type of complaint is 
whether or not there was a storm at the relevant time. If there was no storm there cant have 
been any damage caused by the storm. 
Both parties have accepted a storm took place when Mr J reported the damage. And the 
damage claimed for is consistent with the sort of damage Id expect a storm to cause. So the 
second question is also satisfied. The third question  and often the most contentious  is 
whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
UKI believe the concrete section suffered damage over time due to the downward flow of 
water. It says the concrete surface doesnt show any signs of storm damage. And photos 
taken a few days after the storm show a fence post hanging in the air on a wire fence with 
lichen growing on its base. UKI says the level of growth in the photo, and the weeds and 
plants growing below, show the areas were already exposed before the storm occurred.
UKI believes water from the culvert gradually washed away the foundations, leaving the 
concrete section unsupported and unable to bear its own weight. And because this took 
place over a period of time, the insurer has excluded the damage as a gradually operating 
cause.
Ive looked at everything UKI and Mr J have said. There isnt any evidence to show the state 
of the foundations under the concrete section before the storm took place. But Mr J says the 
concrete section was checked on an annual basis.To fairly rely on an exclusion it is up to UKI to show its reliance on the exclusion is justified. 
So Ive carefully considered UKIs comments in relation to the hanging fence post and floral 
growth, which the insurer feels provides strong evidence the ground had eroded away before 
the storm. 
The photo of the fence post hanging unsupported on the wire fence shows signs of floral 
growth, suggesting it may have been doing so for some time. But the photo appears to show 
that the fence post is some distance from the concrete section and pipes. And most of the 
plant growth on the side of the earth banks also ends some distance from the actual 
concrete section and pipe outlets. 
I think this suggests some of the ground near the concrete section may have begun to erode 
due to water flow from the culvert. But even if water from the culvert had begun to wash 
away the ground near the concrete section, it doesnt necessarily follow that the foundations 
under the concrete culvert section were badly affected before the storm. Its possible the 
area under the concrete section may still have been intact and supporting the concrete 
section until the storm conditions overwhelmed and washed away the ground below. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence presented by UKI. But based on everything Ive seen 
Im not persuaded the insurer has done enough to show that water flow over a period of time 
was the most likely cause of the damage to the concrete culvert. 
I find UKI acted unfairly in relying on the gradually operating cause exclusion of the 
insurance policy to decline Ms claim for storm damage to the concrete section of the 
driveway. 
Putting things right
I understand M has now installed a new and improved culvert system. But it wouldnt be fair 
to ask UKI to pay for the entire cost. That would be betterment - M would have a better 
system than it had before the damage occurred. But I do think UKI should pay for the works 
it wouldve done if the original culvert had been repaired.
I agree with the approach our investigator has recommended. To put things right UKI should:
 Reimburse the damage from the storm (to the concrete element) subject to invoices
 The insured will need to provide a full breakdown of what was done, as we would 
only expect the insurer to contribute to the works it would have had done
 Add 8% per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited should settle Ms 
claim as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman