DRN-4005845
The complaint
R complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc handled and settled its claim on its home 
insurance policy. 
Mr B is a director of R and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
R owns a number of properties for which it has property insurance with Allianz. In 2019 Mr B 
made a claim after discovering cracks at one at the properties. The claim was accepted and 
some trees were identified as the cause and removed. 
Allianz then instructed a loss adjusting firm to complete repairs to the property. However Mr 
B was unhappy with how the claim had progressed and some of the snagging works left to 
complete. He made a complaint and Allianz offered £100 compensation and said it would fix 
the external paving and towel rail. He brought it to this service, and we agreed this was a fair 
resolution to the complaint. 
However since the complaint Mr B has remained unhappy that some outstanding items 
havent been addressed. He said Allianz hadnt replaced a poorly fitted towel rail and he had 
asked for confirmation of the warranty period for the paving that had been laid but hadnt had 
a response.  
He made another complaint that this service raised with Allianz. It confirmed the complaint 
was received and that it was looking into it, however it didnt respond in the required time so 
this service investigated. 
Our investigator requested information about the circumstances of the complaint from 
Allianz, however it didnt provide a full response. She therefore assessed the complaint 
based on the evidence provided by Mr B. Based on this she recommended the complaint be 
upheld and thought Allianz should pay Mr B the costs of replacing the fitted towel rail and 
provide confirmation of any applicable warranty cover for the paving tiles. 
Mr B accepted the outcome on behalf of R. However Allianz didnt respond, so the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has provided very little information regarding this complaint, despite being given 
ample time to do so. So in the interest of not delaying matters further for either side, and 
because this is an informal service, I have come to a decision based on the evidence 
available. 
In response to Rs previous complaint in 2021, Allianz confirmed it would fix the towel rail as 
part of the claim. Since then, Mr B has confirmed that no action has been taken to resolve 
this. As Allianz has confirmed this is part of the accepted claim and has provided nothing to 
show it has carried out the agreed action, I think its fair and reasonable for it to pay Rs 
costs for having this replaced. 
Mr B has also raised concerns about the paving stones that have been laid in the garden of 
the property, as he hasnt had confirmation of a warranty or how long they should reasonably 
last. I agree with our investigator that Allianz should confirm in writing the warranty period for 
the work.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Rs complaint. I direct Allianz Insurance Plc to:
Pay the cost of replacing the towel rail, on receipt of proof of the amount from Mr B. 
Provide written confirmation of the warranty period for the paving slabs to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman