DRN-3194545
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly 
terminated its Bounce Back Loan agreement. 
Ts director, Mr M, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
T held a business account with Santander, and in May 2020 it applied to the bank for a 
£30,000 Bounce Back Loan. The application was approved, and the funds were drawn down 
on 15 June. Although successful, there were some administrative issues with Ts application. 
So, the bank also paid T £100 in compensation for the inconvenience it had experienced.
 
Shortly before Ts Bounce Back Loan was drawn down, Santander removed the arranged 
overdraft from Ts business current account. It did so because of the way Ts account had 
been managed  specifically, that no credits had been made to the account for some time. 
Ts account was then left in an unarranged overdraft of around £15,000.
 
Once the Bounce Back Loan funds were drawn down a few days later, around half of the 
money was used to repay Ts unarranged overdraft. Mr M didnt think this was fair, but 
Santander said that any credits to Ts account would first clear the outstanding debt.
 
In August, the bank wrote to T after carrying out a further review. It said it couldnt verify the 
level of turnover that T had declared in its application, so it asked for some supporting 
evidence. Santander blocked T from accessing the remaining Bounce Back Loan funds until 
sufficient evidence had been provided.
 
On behalf of T, Mr M provided some further documentation to Santander. But the bank didnt 
think it was enough to verify Ts turnover, and it ultimately concluded that T wasnt eligible for 
the £30,000 Bounce Back Loan.
 
Mr M was unhappy that a further review was carried out after T had successfully applied for 
a Bounce Back Loan, and he felt the time the whole process had taken was too long. So, on 
behalf of T, he complained.
 
In response, Santander explained why it didnt consider the evidence of turnover that T had 
supplied to be sufficient. The bank said that, because it couldnt verify Ts turnover, it hadnt 
been wrong to block Ts access to the rest of the money. It did, however, acknowledge the 
time things had taken  so it offered T £100 in compensation. 
Mr M referred Ts complaint to our service. An investigator here considered what had 
happened, but he didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. He said that Ts 2019 turnover 
didnt appear to match what it had declared in its application, so Santander had reasonably 
blocked access to the rest of the loan. The investigator also pointed out that the bank had 
acted in-line with the terms and conditions of Ts account when it removed the arranged 
overdraft.
 
Moreover, the investigator also noted that  since Ts complaint had been with our service  
the bank intended to end its relationship with T. And the investigator didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong in taking this step.
 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he 
remained unhappy with how Santander had treated T. And he still thought the decision to 
remove Ts overdraft and carry out a further review of its Bounce Back Loan was unfair. 
As no agreement has been reached, Ts complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
 
Ts Bounce Back Loan
Applicants for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were required to self-declare 
that they met the eligibility criteria.
 
The rules of the Scheme set out that an applicant could borrow up to a maximum of 25% of 
their annual turnover. When T applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan it asked to 
borrow £30,000, which means it needed to have a turnover of at least £120,000.
 
Santander has provided a copy of Ts application and, having reviewed it, I can see that T 
declared a 2019 turnover of £158,000. So, Santander approved the application on this basis.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, Santander was entitled  and 
expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud 
obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory 
requirements. So, while I know Mr M feels that Santander had enough information to 
determine if T met the criteria at the outset, I dont think it didnt anything wrong in 
conducting further review of the loan or Ts account after the loan was drawn down.
 
When Santander reviewed Ts entitlement to the loan, it ultimately decided that this couldnt 
be confirmed. Instead, Santander found that T didnt seem to be eligible for the loan and the 
bank ultimately moved to terminate the agreement.
 
I think the banks decision here was reasonable. Thats because the level of turnover 
Santander could verify for T was around £8,000  which is significantly lower than the 
£158,000 T had self-declared in its application.
 
When applying on behalf of T, Mr M has explained that he gave an estimate turnover: 
essentially what he felt T would go on to achieve in the next 12 months. And in certain 
circumstances applicants could provide estimates, that option was designed for businesses 
who wished to apply for a loan under the Scheme but hadnt been trading for long enough.
 
That scenario, however, didnt apply to T. It was established in January 2019, and the 
Bounce Back Loan application is quite clear in asking for the applicants turnover for that year. So given that, by the time it applied for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, T had over a 
years trading activity, I think it couldve provided an accurate 2019 turnover figure in its 
application  not an estimate for the year ahead.
 
After it discovered the discrepancy, I think Santander gave T sufficient time and opportunity 
to demonstrate its eligibility. The bank wrote to T and asked it to provide further 
documentation to support its eligibility for a £30,000 Bounce Back Loan. Specifically, 
Santander requested a self-assessment letter or bank statements from accounts that T may 
have held elsewhere. The letter also set out what could happen as a consequence should T 
not respond or provide satisfactory evidence of turnover, including possible termination of 
the loan.
 
Mr M did provide Santander with some further information, but the bank didnt change its 
stance because it still couldnt verify Ts turnover. And under the terms and conditions of the 
Bounce Back Loan, Santander was entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate 
repayment in certain circumstances. This included where any of the information provided 
within the application is found to have been misleading, was incomplete or incorrect. And 
with that in mind, because T couldnt show that it was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan, I 
think Santander was entitled to terminate the agreement. 
Ts account and overdraft
Santanders decision to remove Ts arranged overdraft meant that, when the Bounce Back 
Loan funds were credited, around half of the loan immediately repaid Ts outstanding debt.
Ill say first that I dont think the banks decision to remove Ts arranged overdraft facility was 
unreasonable. There were occasions when T hadnt paid anything towards its overdraft, and 
the terms and conditions of Ts account allowed Santander to remove the overdraft facility in 
those circumstances.
 
Santander could also use any credits to Ts account to repay what was owed, and thats 
what happened with Ts Bounce Back Loan. So, while I appreciate the timing may have been 
unfortunate, I cant fairly say the bank did something wrong here.
 
Ive also noted that Santander later decided to close Ts account and it explained this 
decision in writing. Generally speaking, such decisions are a matter of the banks 
commercial discretion. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think Santanders 
decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
Overall
I do appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter, Ive no doubt the pandemic was 
a very difficult time for him and his business. But while Im sorry to hear of how much he was 
personally affected, the complainant here is T  not Mr M.
 
This complaint arises from Ts relationship with the bank, not Mr Ms, so under our rules T is 
the eligible complainant. And that means I cant consider, as part of this complaint, any 
distress and inconvenience which may have been caused to Mr M  even in his capacity as 
Ts director.
 
To sum up, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So, it follows that I dont require the bank to do anything more.
 Ive noted the bank has made an offer to T of £100, which was previously declined. So, Ill 
leave it to Mr M to liaise directly with Santander should T now wish to accept this offer  if its 
still available.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman