DRN-3153282
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that TSB Bank plc applied interest to his credit card account balance at a 
time when he feels a promotional interest free period was in place.  
What happened
In May 2020, Mr W carried out a balance transfer to his TSB credit account to take 
advantage of a promotional 0% interest rate offer which would be in place until May 2021, 
but which was dependent on Mr Ws account continuing to meet certain criteria, including 
that monthly payments to the account must be made.
In July 2020, the monthly payment due on the account wasnt received by TSB. As a result, 
the promotional 0% interest offer was cancelled, and interest was applied to the account 
balance by TSB. Mr W contacted TSB about this as he had a direct debit set up to make the 
payment and thered been enough money in his account to cover the payment. TSB 
accepted Mr Ws position and agreed to reinstate the promotional 0% interest offer as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Unfortunately, the next scheduled payment due on the account, in August 2020, also wasnt 
received by TSB. This was because the new direct debit that Mr W had set up to cover the 
payment hadnt come into effect at that time. Mr W made a manual payment later in the 
month and asked for the promotional offer to be reinstated again. TSB initially agreed to this, 
but when Mr W checked his statements, he noticed that interest was still being applied to his 
account. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ws complaint. They apologised to Mr W for what had happened and 
made payments to Mr W totalling £210 to compensate him for what had taken place. 
However, Mr W saw that interest continued to be applied to his account, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During our investigators review, TSB 
explained that, while they had initially agreed to reinstate the promotional offer for a second 
time as a gesture of goodwill, this had been a mistake on their part and Mr W shouldnt in 
fact have been told that the offer would be reinstated following the second missed payment 
in August 2020 because by missing that second payment Mr W had broken the terms of the 
promotional offer such that it wouldnt be reinstated. 
TSB acknowledged to our investigator that Mr W had been given incorrect information that 
the promotional offer would be reinstated, and so they offered to make a further payment of 
£200 compensation to Mr W because of this. But TSB confirmed that the 0% interest offer 
wouldnt be reinstated to Mr Ws account. Our investigator felt that the further offer of 
compensation that TSB had made here did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint, and so they put TSBs offer to Mr W on that basis.
Mr W didnt agree with the offer that TSB had proposed and continued to feel that the 0% 
interest offer should be reinstated, especially as TSB had sent him a letter previously 
confirming that that would be the case. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must be frustrating for Mr W to have been told by TSB that they 
would reinstate the 0% interest offer, only to later learn that TSBs position was that Mr W 
had broken the terms of the offer and that they were no longer willing to reapply the offer to 
Mr Ws account.
The first point to acknowledge here is that the terms of the 0% interest offer were broken. 
The offer was dependent on Mr W making the required monthly payments to his account, but 
the payments in both July and August 2020 werent made on time. 
TSB accepted that the circumstances surrounding the first missed payment, in July 2020, 
were unclear, and so they agreed to reinstate the offer at that time. But TSB felt that it was 
clear that it wasnt the case that the August 2020 payment had been missed because of any 
fault or mistake by TSB, and that the missing of this payment by Mr W constituted a breaking 
of the terms of the 0% interest offer. 
Its difficult to find fault with TSBs logic here. And while I can understand that Mr W will 
reference the fact that he did set up a replacement direct debit to cover the monthly 
payments due on the account, that replacement direct debit wasnt set up in time for it to 
make the August 2020 payment on the scheduled payment date. 
And, ultimately, it was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure that the required payments to the 
account were made. As such, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for TSB to maintain 
that the terms of the 0% interest free promotional offer had been broken following the 
missing of the August 2020 payment by Mr W.
The next question that presents itself is whether the fact that TSB initially told Mr W that they 
would reinstate the 0% interest offer for a second time following the missed August 2020 
payment means that TSB should honour that statement and reinstate the offer as Mr W 
would like.
Its clear that theres been a significant breakdown in communication within TSB in relation to 
this matter, and this has led to Mr W being sent letters confirming that the 0% interest offer 
would be reapplied to his account at the same time as TSB have made the decision that the 
terms of the offer have been broken such that it wont be reapplied.
However, while I appreciate that Mr W will disagree, I dont feel that this error of 
communication by TSB, as significant as it was, should override the decision that TSB have 
made  and which Im satisfied is a fair and valid decision as explained above  that the 
terms of the promotional offer have been broken following the missed August 2020 payment 
such that it shouldnt be reinstated. 
But its clear that Mr W has incurred some detriment as a result of TSB not providing him the 
correct information about the promotional offer not being reinstate in the first instance, and I 
feel that Mr W should be compensated by TSB because of this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
additional £200 compensation that TSB have offered here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
Im aware that Mr W feels that the offer of £200 doesnt adequately reflect the amount of 
interest that has been applied to his account and which he was told  incorrectly  would be 
removed with the reinstatement of the promotional offer for the second time. 
But I can confirm that my position here is that, following Mr W not making the August 2020 
payment, the terms of the promotional offer had been broken such that TSB were then 
entitled to cancel the offer and apply interest to his account. This means that it would always 
have been the case, following the missing of the August payment, that TSB would have 
removed the offer from Mr Ws account and applied interest accordingly  regardless of 
whether Mr W was incorrectly informed otherwise or not.       
As such, the £200 compensation here bears no relation to the interest applied to Mr Ws 
account by TSB  which I remain satisfied has been applied fairly  but rather applies only to 
the provision of incorrect information to Mr W by TSB regarding the possibility of the interest 
free offer being reapplied for a second time. And, as explained, Im satisfied that the £200 
further compensation that TSB have offered for the provision of this incorrect information to 
Mr W is reasonable and does represent a fair resolution to this complaint.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ws favour, I will be 
doing so on the limited basis described above only, and my instructions to TSB will be that 
they must make the further payment of £200 to Mr W that they have offered, and wont 
include any requirement for TSB to reapply the 0% interest offer to Mr Ws account as he 
would like.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
TSB must make a further payment of £200 to Mr W.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman