DRN-3802760
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy an escape of water damage claim made under his buildings insurance 
policy has been declined by AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA).
What happened
Mr H suspected he had a leak in the shower area in his bathroom, so he arranged for 
contractors to investigate. A leak was subsequently discovered after some of Mr Hs 
bathroom had been stripped out.
Due to the extent of the damage caused by the leak, Mr H approached AA, his building 
insurer. 
AA recognised Mr Hs concerns with the time it would take a surveyor to be appointed, as 
this was his family bathroom. They advised to take photos of the damage, keep any invoices 
for repairs Mr H was having completed, and to submit them to AA. 
A surveyor was subsequently appointed by AA. They said they werent able to establish the 
extent of damage or repairs required as Mr H had arranged for repairs to be completed. So, 
AA declined Mr Hs claim as they said they were unable to validate it.
Mr H was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. She said AA accept there 
was an escape of water, and this isnt in dispute. She recognised AA had said they werent 
able to validate the damage as works had already been completed. But she was satisfied 
that Mr H had provided enough evidence, including photos, a video, a cause of damage 
report and invoices, to demonstrate the loss and repairs required as a result.
The investigator recognised some items on the repair invoice wouldnt have been necessary 
due to the loss. So, she recommended AA should settle the remaining items she outlined 
from the invoice, with 8% interest added from date of invoice payment to date of settlement.
AA didnt agree and said the repairs were unnecessary and excessive. They said the 
bathroom was usable once the initial leak was repaired. 
AA also said Mr H knew about the leak prior to reporting it, had unnecessary strip out works, 
and placed himself in the position of no facilities. And, in any event, AA said it was likely the 
claim would have been declined on the basis of the gradual damage exclusion in Mr Hs 
policy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
AA doesnt dispute there has been an escape of water. But they have declined the claim on 
the basis they havent been able to validate the damage or repairs required, because Mr H 
had already gone ahead with these. AA argue that Mr H put himself in a position of needing 
urgent works by completing excessive strip out works, and they say its likely the claim 
wouldve been declined as gradual damage if they had been able to inspect it earlier.
Mr H noticed some paint bubbling on a wall. So, he took actions in the first instance to repair 
this, by redecorating, but it returned a short time later  around four weeks.
It was at this point Mr H suspected there may have been a leak, so he arranged for this to be 
investigated further. To enable this investigation to take place, his contractors removed the 
shower, tiles and part of the flooring.
Mr H has provided a report on the cause of damage from the contractor that investigated, in 
short, this is summarised as:
The shower tray and tiling were removed to access the waste pipe
The waste pipe from the shower had leaked at the joint damaging the floorboards 
and joists
There was water damage along the length of the waste pipe causing further damage 
to the joists and floorboards
The waste pipe from the shower joined the bath and sink and exited at that point, and 
leaks were evident at that point too
Water was also escaping from the waste pipe outside the bathroom to the drain
Im satisfied Mr H reported the damage to AA when he actually discovered there was a leak. 
AA hasnt relied on the gradual damage exclusion specifically to decline the claim (instead 
they have said they were unable to validate it). It wasnt until the strip out that the leak was 
discovered and the extent of damage became evident, and Mr H then contacted AA at that 
point. Im satisfied the actions Mr H took to investigate are reasonable, given the timescales 
involved, and that he contacted AA when he found the leak.
AA says it wouldve been reasonable for Mr H to await the surveyor inspecting, rather than 
having works completed prior to this. However, the surveyor didnt attend until more than a 
week after Mr H had first contacted AA to let them know of the leak, and the extensive 
damage that had been found.In any event, Ive listened to the call when Mr H first contacted AA. During this, AA said they 
would ordinarily send a surveyor to establish damage and repairs as a next step. However, 
Mr H explained this was his family bathroom and they needed to have washing facilities. AA 
recognised the urgency of this during the call and agreed that if Mr H didnt have a shower, 
he would need to go ahead sooner. They told him to keep photos, videos, invoices etc and 
to submit them to AA  which Mr H subsequently did. 
During the call AA didnt raise any concerns about Mr H proceeding at that stage or let him 
know the implications if he went ahead. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to now try to 
rely on not being able to validate the claim to decline it, when the urgency was recognised 
during the call. AA didnt raise any concerns at that point, and Mr H proceeded on the basis 
of the call with AA, and the advice he was given.
AA has also said Mr H had a bath as well as a shower which he couldve used. But AA has 
raised this retrospectively. AA didnt ask Mr H about this in the call, and they recognised he 
needed to have a shower and didnt have any concerns with proceeding at that point.
With this in mind, I dont think AA has acted fairly or reasonably by declining the claim on the 
basis they were unable to validate it. Im persuaded Mr H has provided sufficient evidence to 
show the cause of the leak and damage from the report, photos, videos and invoices hes 
provided to AA.
AA has also raised concerns that the invoice for repairs Mr H has submitted is in excess of 
the escape of water repairs they say would be required. 
Our investigator recognised that point in her recommendations to AA. And I agree with the 
position she reached, and for the same reasons. To summarise, she recommended AA 
should cover the items on Mr Hs invoice which she believed (based on the cause of damage 
report) were required as a result of the escape of water only.
But she recognised some repairs likely werent related to that, and they could be removed 
from the invoice and settlement. So, she said AA should settle the invoice, with a 50% 
deduction of the tiling costs (i.e. deduct a total of £550 from the tiles), and AA also didnt 
need to include the costs of underfloor heating or a cupboard. 
Having seen the invoice, and all the other evidence in support of the escape of water 
damage and repairs, Im in agreement this would be a fair and reasonable settlement in all 
the circumstances of the case for the escape of water damage (subject to any applicable 
excess deduction). 
Im also in agreement that AA should also pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr H paid 
the invoice to date of settlement.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited:
Deal with Mr Hs escape of water claim and settle the invoice he has provided 
(subject to any applicable excess). AA can deduct the underfloor heating and 
cupboard costs, and 50% of the tiling costs (£550) from the invoice and settlement.
Add 8% simple interest from the date Mr H paid the invoice to the date of settlement
*If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman