DRN-3735531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Accelerant Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim 
theyve made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B has brought this complaint on behalf of herself and her husband so Ill refer to her 
throughout. References I make to Mrs B and Accelerant include respective representatives 
and agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mrs B has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Accelerant. She discovered 
her hall carpet was wet and thought this was likely caused by water coming from the 
shower on the other side of the hall wall. She arranged for a contractor to assess the 
damage and they reported there were no obvious leaks but the grouting to the 
bathroom tiles was damaged. 
She reported the damage to Accelerant to make a claim on the buildings cover. It 
appointed an agent to investigate and validate the claim but it was declined as the 
policy included an exclusion for damage as a result of grout failure.
Mrs B complained to Accelerant as she believed the grout was damaged as the 
result of movement of a stud wall during the installation of new doors rather than 
through wear and tear. She was also unhappy as she said shed initially been told the 
claim would be covered. 
Because of this, Accelerant considered the claim against the accidental damage part 
of the policy but its underwriters said the failure of grout was excluded irrespective of 
the cause of the failure. The claim remained declined.
Mrs B raised her complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the 
evidence but thought Accelerant had declined the claim fairly. She said the expert 
evidence said the leak occurred as a result of grout failure and this was excluded 
under the policy terms. But she thought Accelerant should pay Mrs B £100 for 
avoidable delays.
Mrs B asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder wishes to claim on a policy, the onus is on them to show the 
damage is covered by the policy. If an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to 
decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies.
The terms of the policy define what the parties can expect from the cover and Im 
unlikely to tell an insurer to pay a claim if its not covered under the policy terms.
Ill be keeping all this in mind when looking at this complaint together with what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. 
The report from the Home Emergency contractor who initially attended explained 
there were no leaks detected but The grout is cracked in various areas the whole 
way up on the wall that backs onto the hall - this would allow water to get behind the 
tiles and run down when the shower is in use.
It further confirmed when the shower was not in use, the water stopped dripping 
down from floor level to the ceiling below. Overall, I find this expert opinion 
persuasive. Mrs B hasnt offered any expert opinion suggesting an alternative cause.
The terms of the policy explain, within the General Conditions section of the policy 
which relates to the buildings and contents cover We do not cover any damage 
caused byfailure of or lack of sealant and/or grout. This is a common exclusion 
within policies of this nature.
I note Accelerant has apologised it initially incorrectly suggested the claim would be 
covered and I acknowledge this must have been frustrating for Mrs B. But ultimately, 
Im satisfied that based on the available evidence, Accelerant has fairly declined the 
claim based on the above exclusion. So I wont be upholding this part of the 
complaint or asking Accelerant to do anymore in relation to it.
Theres some further commentary within the report that says its possible the damage 
to the grout may have occurred when contractors employed by Mrs B replaced some 
doors as this may have disturbed the stud wall. This seems to be Mrs Bs belief too. 
But the report does also explain this is a suggestion only and would require further 
investigation to rule out other possible causes so I dont find this particularly 
persuasive.
But even if this were the case, the exclusion relating to the failed grout applies 
irrespective of the cause of the grout failure so this doesnt change my mind. So, 
given this potential alternative cause wouldnt change the outcome of the claim, Im 
satisfied Accelerant hasnt needed to investigate this further.
From what Ive seen, Accelerant didnt provide Mrs B with the level of customer 
service Id expect through the claim so Ill be upholding this part of the complaint. Its 
required to handle claims promptly and fairly and at times it was slow to provide her 
with updates requiring her to chase it for these and for calls to be returned. I think 
Accelerant should pay Mrs B £100 as acknowledgement of its shortcoming 
throughout the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Accelerant Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman