DRN-4275888
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with his motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr G got in touch with Admiral in December 2022 about a problem with his car. 
Admiral accepted the claim and agreed for its repairer, F, to carry out repairs in early 
January 2023. However, by late February F hadnt begun work and said it wouldnt 
be able to do so. Admiral said it couldnt find any other repairer on its network to 
carry out the work. So it invited Mr G to find quotes from local garages instead.
Mr G complained about the way the claim had been handled. He was unhappy with 
the delays, lack of communication, and being asked to source his own repair. He 
noted hed received calls despite telling Admiral a medical condition meant it was 
unsuitable to call him. He asked for compensation, his excess to be waived, and his 
premiums to be refunded. He also said he was paying costs associated with his car, 
such as tax and lease charges, despite not having his car available to use.
Admiral gave its complaint response in March 2023. It accepted there had been 
failings in its service and paid Mr G £100 compensation. It acknowledged it would be 
frustrating for Mr G to have to find a local garage, but it said it didnt have any nearby 
on its network that it could turn to. It didnt agree to pay for any of Mr Gs costs.
Further complaint responses were given in April and May 2023. Admiral accepted 
there had been continued communication problems and paid a further £50 
compensation. Otherwise, it said it taking steps to progress the claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think 
Admiral had gone far enough to put things right. For the way Admiral had handled the 
claim up to the May 2023 complaint response, she said it should pay an additional 
£150 compensation to make £300 in total. She also said it should some of the costs 
Mr G faced, during the period of delay caused by F.
Admiral agreed to pay the extra compensation, but not Mr Gs costs. It said he would 
always have been responsible for these costs, regardless of the claim or delays.
Mr G didnt challenge or comment directly on our investigators suggestion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is how Admiral has handled the claim from the outset in 
December 2022 to the May 2023 complaint response. Im aware the claim has 
continued after that, but those events wont be considered within this decision.
Its accepted by all parties that Admirals service has been below the expected 
standard. There have been avoidable delays and poor communication during the 
relevant time. Admiral has now agreed to pay an additional £150, making £300 
compensation in total. Im satisfied thats reasonable compensation for the service 
failings, in the circumstances.
As our investigator has explained, Mr G is required under the terms of his policy to 
pay the premium and claim excess. These payments would have been due no matter 
how the claim was handled. So I wont be requiring Admiral to waive these costs.
The key point in dispute is whether Admiral is responsible for anything further. Mr G 
has shown he makes monthly payments to lease and tax his car. Hes continued to 
make these payments during the claim, despite not being able to use his car. Mr G 
says he was due to return his car to the lease company in January 2023 as he no 
longer needed it. So if the claim had progressed quicker, he would have stopped 
making these payments sooner.
When a policyholder makes a claim for car damage, there will inevitably be a period 
of time during which they cant use it but must continue to pay any associated costs. I 
describe that as the reasonable amount of time required for an insurer to assess the 
claim and arrange repairs. I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to compensate a 
policyholder for being without their car during that reasonable period of time.
However, where the policyholder is without their car for an unreasonable period of 
time, I would expect an insurer to compensate them for the impact of that. Here, 
thats Mr G making the payments for longer than he otherwise would have done.
Admiral initially accepted the claim and instructed F promptly, so I dont think there 
was an unreasonable delay at that stage. But its accepted there followed a delay of 
around two months as F took no action. By early March 2023, Admiral had told Mr G 
it couldnt carry out the repairs for him and he needed to source local quotes.
The policy says, in summary, that Admiral can choose whether to repair the vehicle 
itself or pay the policyholder a reasonable amount to have the repairs carried out. So 
I dont think Admiral is obliged to carry out the repairs for Mr G and, when F couldnt 
do so, it was reasonable for Admiral to ask him to source local quotes. That means 
the time it took Mr G to provides quotes isnt something I can hold against Admiral.
Mr G provided a quote in May, following which Admiral considered it and got in touch 
with the garage for more information. That doesnt seem unreasonable and is where 
the scope of this complaint ends.
Overall, that means there was around two months of unreasonable delay that I think 
Admiral is responsible for. To keep things simple, Im going to require Admiral to pay 
£400 to cover the approximate cost of two months of payments plus interest.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay a total of £300 compensation for the service failings.
Pay an additional £400 compensation for financial loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman