DRN-4395695
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice given to her by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Ltd (RLM) to transfer the benefits from her defined benefit occupational pension scheme (DB 
scheme) to a Section 32 pension plan. 
At the time the advice was provided, it was a different firm providing that advice, which RLM 
has since acquired and is now responsible for. For ease of reference, in this decision I will 
refer to RLM only. Further, Mrs B has been represented by a firm of solicitors in bringing this 
complaint, both to RLM and this Service. Again, for ease of reference, Ill refer to the 
representatives comments as being those of Mrs B.
What happened
RLM has provided us with extremely limited evidence from the time of the advice and 
pension transfer. Mrs B has told us she has negligible recollection of what happened at the 
time but has provided some information about her circumstances. So, the detail below is 
taken from both of these sources. 
Mrs B started working for a company in 1981, when aged 17 years. In April 1988, she joined 
that companys DB pension scheme. She left the company in June 1992, at which point she 
stopped paying into the DB scheme. 
Later in 1992, she was approached by one of RLMs advisors, and in November 1992 
agreed to transfer the benefits accrued within her DB scheme to a Section 32 pension with 
RLM. The transfer value was £2,713. At the time of the advice and transfer, Mrs Bs 
circumstances were as follows:
- She was 28 years of age and had been married the previous year.
- She and her husband had their first child in early 1992 and their second child in 1994. 
- Accordingly, Mrs B wasnt in employment at the time, nor was it anticipated that shed be 
returning to employment at any time soon.
- Mrs Bs salary when she stopped working was £7,432 per annum (pa)
- Mrs (and Mr) B lived in a home owned (with a mortgage) by Mr B before their marriage
- Mrs B recalls, as a family at the time, they were doing OK financially, but not flush with 
spare cash, given they only had one household income by then.
In 2021, Mrs B became aware that she may have cause for complaint about what RLMs 
advisor told her in 1992, so she complained to RLM, raising the following points:
- The Section 32 Policy wasnt suitable for her needs.
- RLMs advisor didnt undertake appropriate enquiries with her to establish her attitude to 
risk (ATR), or undertake a detailed fact-find  so didnt have full knowledge of her 
financial circumstances.
- The advisor didnt discuss the risks of transferring, or fully explain the fees and charges.
- And, shed lost out financially as a result of these issues. 
RLM explained Mrs Bs DB scheme was contracted out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS), and because of this theyd guaranteed to provide a minimum 
level of pension (the GMP) when she reached her retirement age (60). At retirement, theyd 
calculate the benefits Mrs B would receive from the RLM pension and compare it to the GMP 
amount - the higher amount would be paid, with a potential lump sum option too. 
RLM also referred to the industry-wide pension review which commenced in 1994. The 
advice and transfer of Mrs Bs DB policy was caught by the review. However, because Mrs B 
had moved by the time RLM contacted her about this, and she didnt receive their enquiry 
letters dated January and February 1999, she wasnt included in the review. RLM explained 
that, as per the terms of Mrs Bs policy, it was her obligation to inform them of any change of 
address, which she hadnt done. They acknowledged the only way to now find out if Mrs B 
had suffered a financial loss as a result of the advice shed received was to carry out a 
review  but in line with FCA guidance issued at the time it was now too late to undertake 
the review, and RLM dont accept any new cases for review. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs B brought her complaint to this Service. Echoing the above 
complaint points, she repeated she didnt receive RLMs letters, and wasnt aware of a cause 
for complaint until she discussed her pension with a family member whod also worked for 
the same company, but who hadnt transferred her DB pension  and which was now worth 
considerably more than Mrs Bs RLM policy. 
One of our Investigators first considered if this was a complaint this Service had jurisdiction 
to consider, given the event complained about took place 30 years ago. She concluded we 
did. RLM also consented to this Service reviewing the merits of Mrs Bs complaint.  
The Investigator then considered whether the advice provided to Mrs B was suitable for her 
needs. The Investigator concluded, because Mrs B was still many years from retirement age, 
she would have been able to take some risk with her pension, on the basis of a reasonable 
assumption the pension would grow over time. She compared the projected yearly pension 
payments for the RLM pension against the projected DB scheme pension. And whilst noting 
that investment rates of return turned out to be much smaller than anticipated at the time of 
the advice, she thought it was fair at that time for the advisor to have relied on those 
anticipated return figures when advising Mrs B, and when concluding/advising Mrs B could 
have been better off by transferring her DB scheme pension in the way she did. 
Mrs B didnt agree with our Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to consider her 
complaint  so it was passed to me to review and issue a Decision. And having considered 
the available evidence, together with Mrs Bs comments, I reached a different conclusion to 
our Investigator. I set out my thoughts in a Provisional Decision, in which I said as follows:   
Ive taken account of the rules and regulations, and regulators guidance, that existed at the 
time Mrs B was advised by RLM. And where evidence is sparse or incomplete, Ive reached 
my conclusions based on the balance of probabilities, and what I think is more likely than not 
to have happened based on the evidence and commentary Ive received from both parties. 
Applicable rules, regulations and requirements
RLM provided their advice in 1992. At the time, it (its predecessor) was a member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). Their rules included a Code 
of Conduct which said advisors should exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly 
with investors. Advisors were also required to give best advice to investors, which included not advising a client to cancel or transfer an occupational pension unless they genuinely 
believed it to be in the best interests of the consumer, and had clearly explained all of the 
relevant consequences and disadvantages of any such transfer. LAUTROs rules also 
required firms to keep records to show their compliance with the regulatory requirements. 
With all the above in mind, Ive considered whether RLMs advice to transfer her DBS was in 
Mrs Bs best interests. And, having considered the very limited evidence available, and 
thought very carefully about what Mrs B has since told us about her circumstances at the 
time, I dont think it was. Ill explain.
The Pension Review, and our Jurisdiction
In October 1994, the regulator at the time established an industry-wide review of certain 
pension business that had been carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 
30 June 1994. Consumers were approached by the pension firms and invited to have a 
review  to see if theyd been given inappropriate advice relating to their DB schemes 
between those dates. One of the three defined circumstances requiring a review was where 
a consumer was advised to transfer the benefits within their DBS to a private pension  
which was the case here. 
As Ive set out above, its not in dispute that RLM sent the review letters to Mrs B, nor that 
she didnt receive them because shed moved from the address RLM had on file some years 
before they were sent. I should say that RLM werent required to take any further steps to 
contact Mrs B at the time, and so didnt do anything wrong by closing their file on the matter.
But that doesnt mean the advice RLMs advisor gave to Mrs B at the time was in her best 
interests at the time, and its that I now need to consider here. 
RLMs advice, and was it in Mrs Bs best interests?
As mentioned above, RLM should only have recommended the DBS transfer if it genuinely 
believed it was in Mrs Bs best interests to do so. And if RLMs advisor genuinely thought 
that to be the case, the advisor would have needed to clearly disclose the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring, and keep records showing it had done that. 
Here, there are no such records, and so its impossible for me to know whether RLMs 
advisor complied with their obligations. RLM have provided various documents connected 
with their interactions with the DBS scheme, including DB scheme valuations and transfer 
documents. Theyve also provided some internal documents which contain details on the 
value of, and the projections for, the RLM policy. But they havent provided any documents 
that record Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the advice, or whether they asked about her 
retirement intentions, or her attitude to risk. Theres no evidence the benefits of her DBS 
policy were explained to her. And I havent seen any form of comparison of those benefits or 
analysis setting out why RLM believed it would have been in Mrs Bs best interests to 
transfer out of her DBS. 
But, RLM have provided a copy of a memo sent by their actuarial department to the district 
manager dated 8 October 1992, commenting on Mrs Bs pension enquiry. It said:
If the client wishes to proceed, the following action should be taken:
Please advise the client that [RLMs proposed benefits] differs from those provided 
by the former scheme. It is important that the client considers the effect of this 
difference when comparing the benefits available.the previous scheme increases pensions in payment by 5.00%. [RLM] are not 
prepared to issue policies on that basis. Our quotation has been prepared on the 
basis the pension will increase by 3.00% per annum once payment commences.
So, not only was there a general obligation on the advisor to have properly discussed the 
advantages and disadvantages of transferring, the advisor was also specifically told by 
RLMs own actuaries to explain Mrs Bs DBS pension payments, when taken, would grow at 
a proportionally faster rate than her proposed RLM pension would, and these compound 
payment increases would increase for the rest of her life. Again, there is no evidence that 
this specific request was complied with. 
Mrs B says she has no recollection of the meeting that took place between her and RLMs 
advisor  she doesnt recall whether it took place in her home, or at an office. She has no 
recollection of any discussions, or recommendations being made, and no recollection of 
asking for a meeting to consider her pension options  her only explanation for the meeting 
is that she recalls her (now ex) husband may have had an endowment product with RLMs 
predecessor which was connected with his mortgage, and that may have acted as the 
means of introduction. 
At the time of the advice,  Mrs B had recently stopped working to start a family, the initial 
meeting having taken place in the months after shed given birth to her first child. Shes told 
us that her focus at the time was very much centred on her new family, and that thinking 
about her pension wouldnt have been on her agenda at that time. There was no immediate 
prospect of her returning to work, and no prospect of re-starting payments into her pension. 
I think this is important. At the time of the advice, Mrs B benefitted from a pension, albeit 
relatively small, that provided guarantees in her retirement. These were valuable benefits, 
providing a certain income in retirement, particularly given there was no immediate prospect 
of Mrs B making any payments to increase her personal pension provisions in the 
foreseeable future.  
Thats not to say, in theory, that Mrs B wouldnt have been willing to explore whether a 
personal pension may provide a better long-term retirement option, paying higher benefits 
than her DBS. At the time of the advice, it must be acknowledged that stock market returns 
 upon which the values and benefits of personal pensions were calculated - at that time 
were very healthy. The advisor would have had a reasonable expectation that a personal 
pension may have performed well enough to provide higher benefits than Mrs Bs DBS 
would provide. However, I dont think thats the point here. 
I dont doubt the prospect of a potentially higher income in retirement may have sounded 
attractive to Mrs B. However, RLM advisors role was to understand what Mrs B needed, and 
recommend what was in her best interests, rather than simply recommend a product based 
on potentially higher returns. 
Ultimately, for all of the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that Mrs B was provided 
with suitable advice by RLM in relation to her DB scheme pension transfer. 
At this point I must also consider if Mrs B would have chosen to go ahead with the DB 
transfer at that time, even if RLM had advised against it. However, based on Mrs Bs 
comments to our Service, and looking very carefully at her circumstances at the time, I think 
its highly unlikely she would have done so. 
As Ive said, Mrs B had stopped working and there was no foreseeable return to pensionable 
employment in the years ahead. Furthermore, shes said both she (and her husband at the time) were cautious with their finances and would certainly not have done anything that 
would have been seen at the time to be a gamble. Given her circumstances at the time, Ive 
no reason to doubt her recollection. Instead Im persuaded that, if RLMs advisor had 
recommended Mrs B remain in her DB scheme, Mrs B would have followed that advice. 
In light of the above, I think RLM should compensate Mrs B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulators defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has responded, accepting my Provisional Decision. RLM have responded, confirming 
they had nothing further to add. No further evidence has been provided for me to consider.
Accordingly, Ive no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision and uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons previously stated. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for RLM to put Mrs B, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
RLM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs B has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, RLM should:
calculate and offer Mrs B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs B before starting the redress calculation that:
otheir redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs B receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs B accepts RLMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs B for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, RLM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs 
Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited and require them to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman