DRN-2733104
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his gadget insurance 
claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr A has gadget insurance, insured by Assurant. He claimed for two iPhones and a laptop 
that had been stolen from his vehicle.
Mr A said the devices were in a rucksack which hed hidden underneath the rear of his 
vehicles driver seat and his vehicle had tinted back windows so no one could see the back 
of the seat where the rucksack was hidden. Hed gone to a restaurant/coffee shop and when 
he returned about 40 minutes later the back window on the drivers side had been broken 
and the bag and contents stolen. Mr A said he hadnt taken the devices with him as they 
were used for work and he didnt need them. He also said when he reported the theft to the 
police he was told that thieves now use Bluetooth to find items to steal and he believes this 
could be how his car was targeted.
Assurant declined the claim. It said Mr A hadnt taken reasonable care of the devices so 
under the policy terms there was no cover.
Mr A complained to us. He said the devices were hidden out of sight in a locked vehicle so 
hed taken reasonable care.
Our investigator thought Assurant hadnt fairly declined the claim and should reassess the 
claim.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said even tinted windows 
could be looked through close up and as the window behind the driver seat was smashed it 
was probable the rucksack had been visible to attract the thief to break in. It thought Mr A 
hadnt done enough to reduce the risk of his devices being stolen.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. It provides cover for theft but the 
policy explains Mr A must take care of his devices otherwise Assurant may not pay the 
claim. The policy says:
Taking care of your device means 
 Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost stolen or 
damage. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there?
 If you need to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with 
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
()
If you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere you cant see it but others can, we 
may decline your claim for not taking care of your gadget  for example
 leaving your gadget on display in your car.
Mr A says the vehicles tinted back windows means the rucksack under the drivers seat 
couldnt be seen. The photos Mr A sent show his vehicles back windows have some tinting 
but even from the photos there is some visibility into the back of the vehicle and theres good 
visibility through the front windows. I note the thief smashed the window nearest to the 
rucksack which suggests its probable the thief could see the rucksack and knew they just 
had to smash the window to get it.
I havent seen any evidence to support that Mr As vehicle was targeted due to thieves using 
Bluetooth to find devices. But even if there was such evidence that doesnt explain how the 
thief knew which window would be nearest to the rucksack.
In the circumstances I think Assurant could reasonably understand that its more likely than 
not that the rucksack was at least in part visible through the vehicles windows and wasnt 
fully out of sight.
Mr A knew that leaving his devices in the vehicle meant there was a risk they would be 
stolen which is why he tried to hide them. But I dont think he took adequate steps to reduce 
this risk so Assurant could fairly say he hadnt taken reasonable care of the devices.
Overall Im satisfied Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr As claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant said it had no further comments. 
Mr A said he would tell us what steps he wanted to take but he hasnt given us any more 
comments by the date he had to respond to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither parties responses to my provisional decision have given me any reason that 
changes my mind. So for the reasons in my provisional findings and these findings I think 
Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr As claim. I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman