DRN-3880310
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy her legal expenses insurers, QIC Europe Ltd, wont allow her to appoint 
her own solicitors to deal with her claim against her neighbours.
QIC appoint claims handlers and other agents to act on their behalf. Where I refer to QIC, I 
include their claims handlers and agents.
Mrs B is represented in bringing her complaint by a family member.
What happened
Mrs B took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) in November 
2021. In around June 2022 she made a claim for cover to pursue a claim against her 
neighbours in connection with, amongst other things, trespass to her property and damage 
theyd allegedly caused. QIC accepted Mrs Bs claim subject to there being reasonable 
prospects of success and costs being proportionate. They instructed panel solicitors to 
advise on that and act on Mrs Bs behalf.
Mrs B objected to the appointment of the panel solicitors. She felt they were conflicted in 
acting for both her and QIC because of a dispute about the claim Mrs B had made on her 
home insurance policy with QIC in relation to the damage the neighbours had allegedly 
caused. And she raised several additional points about why it was appropriate for her to 
appoint her own solicitors.
QIC rejected Mrs Bs complaint. They said they were entitled to appoint panel solicitors 
under the terms of the policy. They didnt agree there was a conflict of interest. They 
addressed Mrs Bs other concerns. And they said theyd refuse to cover the claim under the 
LEI policy if Mrs B didnt agree the panel solicitors could act.
Since Mrs B was unhappy with QICs response, she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think there was a conflict of interest. She said 
QIC were entitled to appoint the panel solicitors and hadnt treated Mrs B unfairly. Mrs B 
didnt agree, so her complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mrs Bs ill health and the impact her dispute with her neighbours has 
had on her and her family. I can appreciate the uncertainty surrounding her insurance cover 
has been stressful for her. Having considered everything carefully, Ive come to the same 
outcome as our investigator about the LEI policy. Ill explain why. But, since Ill provide more 
detailed reasons and Ive considered additional information and documentation, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to provide any final comments before I 
issue a final decision.
The starting point for considering Mrs Bs complaint is the terms of her LEI policy. Subject to 
its terms and conditions and exclusions, the policy provides cover for up to £25,000 of legal 
costs in pursuing a claim in connection with the Insured events.
The relevant insured event and cover in Mrs Bs case, subject to certain exclusions, is:
4. Protecting property from damage
Professional fees to:
1. Take legal action relating to an event which causes or could cause physical 
damage to your home or personal possessions that you own or are responsible for 

2. Take or defend legal action relating to a legal nuisance; or
3. Take or defend legal action relating to a claim that your legal rights relating to 
owning, living in and using your home have been broken (someone trespassing in 
your home).
The Claims procedures and conditions set out the Claims procedure at paragraph 2. They 
include:
If QIC decide Mrs Bs claim has less than a 50% chance of being successful, the 
costs of legal action are more than the value of any damages likely to be awarded or 
it would be better for Mrs B to take a different course of action (an alternative way of 
resolving the dispute) they will write to her and let her know why they cant agree to 
the claim
If QIC decide its reasonable for legal fees to be paid they will take over the claim and 
appoint a solicitor to act on her behalf
Paragraph 3. Representation allows QIC to take over the claim and appoint their panel 
solicitors, which Mrs B must accept. Mrs B can choose her own solicitors if:
i. the [panel solicitors] cannot negotiate a settlement for your claim and it is 
necessary to go to court; or
ii. there is a conflict of interest.
Paragraph 4. Carrying out a claim says, amongst other things, Mrs B must cooperate with 
QIC and the panel solicitors and provide documents and information they ask for.
Ill summarise the points Mrs Bs raised as to why she should be allowed to appoint her own 
solicitors and comment on each of them:
Since Mrs B is in dispute with QIC about whether QIC should cover her claim 
for the property damage she alleges her neighbours caused, under the 
buildings insurance policy, the panel solicitors appointed to pursue the 
neighbours under the LEI policy have a conflict of interest.
QIC are also Mrs Bs buildings insurers. When she made a claim under her policy in relation 
to the damage she said had been caused by her neighbours to trees and the boundary to 
her property, QIC declined it under the malicious damage and vandalism section. Mrs B 
complained. In response QIC said theyd look into a possible claim under a separate part of 
the policy, and they set out further evidence theyd need to consider the claim further. Im not aware Mrs B provided the further information. She remained unhappy. And she said shed 
take legal action against QIC who said theyd defend it if she did.
Mrs B believes that since QIC rejected the claim under the buildings insurance policy, theyd 
want to do the same under the LEI policy to avoid paying. She doesnt think QIC and her 
interests in pursuing the neighbour are aligned. And she says panel solicitors couldnt act in 
both her and QICs best interests when there was a dispute between them about a related 
matter.
The solicitors didnt advise QIC in relation to the buildings insurance claim or the dispute 
between QIC and Mrs B about that. So, no conflict of interest arose on that basis. They 
advised QIC about whether Mrs Bs claim under the LEI policy met the conditions under 
paragraph 2 of the claims procedure - that Ive set out above - of having reasonable 
prospects of success and being proportionate to pursue.
QIC told Mrs B in an email dated 5 August 2022 that the solicitors had advised the claim 
was:
currently proportionate to pursue and currently has reasonable prospects to proceed 
with a letter before action, reserving your right to claim an injunction and/or damages 
or trespass, but at the same time offering an expert determination of the boundary as 
the appropriate forum of alternative dispute resolution. I have agreed with them to 
proceed with this as their recommended first step.
Im aware Mrs B is unhappy QIC wont cover part of the claim she wishes to make against 
the neighbour, which Ill go on to consider. But QIC are supportive of Mrs Bs legal claim 
against the neighbours. They will be interested in the claim succeeding, like Mrs B, if they 
are to recover the costs they agree to pay in due course. So, although Mrs B thinks 
otherwise, I think their interests are aligned.
Based on the available information, theres nothing that leads me to think there was a 
conflict of interest that prevented the panel solicitors QIC had appointed from acting.
Mrs B has concerns about the work the solicitors have done so far including 
that theyve misunderstood her dispute and didnt understand she was seeking 
damages; they are insisting on getting expert evidence; their advice is 
inconsistent; theyve said she is responsible for costs; QIC are directing what 
they are saying.
I dont have the power to consider complaints about solicitors. Any complaint would need to 
be raised with them direct. If Mrs B wasnt happy with the response, shed need to take her 
concerns to the Legal Ombudsman. I could consider if it was reasonable for QIC to rely on 
the solicitors advice if, as Mrs B says, it was inconsistent.
I havent seen the advice or any communications between Mrs B and the solicitors. But from 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded QIC directed the solicitors on what to say. As Ive said, 
QIC confirmed the panel solicitors could take the action theyd recommended. And Id note it 
included pursuing a claim for damages, which Mrs B was concerned the solicitors hadnt 
understood she wanted to make.
I understand Mrs B wants to include a claim for breach of privacy based on the use of CCTV 
by her neighbours. Ive outlined the cover the LEI policy provides. Based on what I know, 
there is no cover under the LEI policy for the costs of taking that action. As far as I am 
aware, the use of CCTV doesnt involve trespassing on Mrs Bs property.QICs explained if Mrs B wants to pursue that, she could instruct their panel solicitors to take 
that action, but shed have to meet the costs of doing so herself. The same would be true if 
Mrs B had her own solicitors. Thats in line with the terms of her policy and reasonable. We 
wouldnt expect QIC to meet the costs of taking action for events that arent covered under 
the policy. And wed only expect them to cover reasonable legal costs for events that are 
covered.
Mrs B says the panel solicitors were recommending proceedings, so they are 
entitled to appoint their own solicitors now.
The action against the neighbours is in its early stages. The recommendation the solicitors 
made was for a letter before action to be sent initially and for expert evidence on the position 
of the boundary to be obtained. Wed generally expect QIC to allow Mrs B to appoint her 
own solicitors if court proceedings had to be issued and she still wanted to  but things 
havent reached that stage yet, so she isnt entitled to under the policy terms.
QIC have said its a complex matter and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
have said a policyholder should be able to choose their own solicitors from the 
beginning of an action in those circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence that the claim involves complex issues of law or policy that 
would require specialist solicitors to deal with it. Im satisfied the solicitors QIC appointed had 
the necessary expertise to address the issues in Mrs Bs case. I understand, though, that the 
firm involved no longer intends to act.
QIC have offered to instruct two London based solicitors which Mrs B feels will 
increase costs. Given her health issues shed prefer local solicitors so she can 
meet them face to face to help with communication and understanding.
I can understand Mrs B would find it reassuring to know she could speak to the solicitors 
face to face. QIC have explained the panel solicitors theyd proposed have offices closer to 
Mrs B than London, although I appreciate they are still not local. But Im not aware of any 
specific need for there to be in person meetings in this case since communication can take 
place in other ways.
Appointing panel solicitors generally allows insurers to ensure the case is pursued in the 
most cost-effective and efficient way given their commercial arrangements. And they can 
keep an eye on the limit of indemnity which is beneficial to both QIC and Mrs B since she will 
be responsible for costs if the limit of indemnity is reached.
Bearing everything in mind, for the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair and reasonable for 
QIC to appoint panel solicitors in this case. So, whilst I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed, I dont intend to uphold her complaint.
Developments
Mrs Bs responded in detail to my provisional decision. Ill address what shes said below. 
QIC havent made any comments on my provisional decision, but theyve responded to 
some requests for further information and questions we put to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at everything the parties have told us since I issued my provisional 
decision. Mrs B didnt think Id summarised her complaint adequately. As a general point, I 
didnt set out in my provisional decision, and wont here, everything the parties have said. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Ive focused on the issues I consider are key to Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs Bs concerned about me reaching a decision if I havent seen all QICs documents 
relating to her LEI and home insurance claims. Shes mentioned some correspondence and 
phone calls which she says supports her concerns there was a conflict of interest and that 
QIC were directing the advice the panel solicitors gave. But she hasnt sent us those. And 
Mrs B and QIC are reluctant to provide copies of their communications with the panel 
solicitors. On balance, Im satisfied I have enough information to come to a decision thats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, to avoid any further delay, Ive reached my 
conclusions based on the information the parties have provided. That includes the email 
dated 5 August 2022, which summarised the advice the panel solicitors gave about the 
action they recommended be taken against the neighbour and prospects of success. 
Mrs Bs pointed out she didnt object to panel solicitors being appointed initially and they sent 
a letter before action to the neighbours. She raised her concerns about a conflict of interest 
and lack of trust after that. I dont know exactly what the panel solicitors told Mrs B. From 
what I understand, they were willing to act for her initially, but said shed have to meet their 
fees in relation to issues that werent covered by the LEI policy. Since Mrs B didnt agree to 
that, felt there was a conflict of interest and/or possibly for other reasons Im not aware of, 
the relationship seems to have broken down. 
Ive explained I cant consider any complaint Mrs B may have about the solicitors. And I 
havent seen any evidence that persuades me its right to hold QIC responsible for what 
happened between Mrs B and the solicitors. I havent seen any persuasive evidence, for 
example, QIC were directing the panel solicitors on what to advise as Mrs B suspects. QIC 
were entitled to discuss the claim with the panel solicitors and the action they proposed. Id 
expect Mrs B to have received a copy of the advice the panel solicitors provided about the 
merits of the claim, which she says she didnt get. But the advice I have seen  as 
summarised in the 5 August 2022 email - supports a claim by Mrs B against the neighbours.
Ive explained the limitations of the policy cover. Mrs B recalls QIC saying all her legal costs 
would be covered. If that was her understanding, I can understand she was unhappy if the 
solicitors said shed have to pay some of their fees herself. But QIC are only liable for 
reasonable legal costs in relation to the events that the policy provides cover for. And, even 
then, what they will pay is subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy including, 
for example, the limit of indemnity and costs being authorised in advance. Mrs Bs claim 
relating to breach of privacy isnt covered. So, if Mrs B had wanted to pursue that claim, she 
would have had to pay the solicitors fees for their work on that herself. 
Mrs B says Im wrong to say she believes that since QIC rejected the claim under the 
buildings insurance policy, theyd want to do the same under the LEI policy to avoid paying. 
Shes clarified that her main reasons for thinking theres a conflict of interest in panel 
solicitors acting for her and QIC in connection with the claim against the neighbours are that:
QIC refused to meet her claim under the malicious damage section of the home 
insurance policy; 
QIC have an interest in showing that no malicious damage occurred to her property 
and that the property that was damaged is owned by the neighbours to avoid that 
claim;She intends to sue QIC for breach of the home insurance contract and for damages 
relating to the trespass and malicious damage caused by the neighbours; and
The subject matter of her proposed claim against QIC and the claim against the 
neighbours is the same.
As I noted in my provisional decision, QIC agreed to the claim going ahead based on the 
panel solicitors advice it had reasonable prospects of success. And theyd have no interest 
in the claim failing as that would mean theyd be unlikely to recover the costs of pursuing the 
claim in due course. QIC and Mrs Bs interests are therefore substantially the same  to 
pursue a successful claim against the neighbours. Im not persuaded to change my mind 
about that. And it doesnt affect my view that there is no conflict of interest in any event. 
Wed only consider there to be a conflict of interest where the solicitor would be in breach of 
their code of conduct or would be professionally embarrassed if they continued to act. That 
would only arise here if, for example, the solicitor had previously acted for Mrs Bs 
neighbours, they knew Mrs B personally, they had confidential information about the 
neighbour, or theyd made a damaging mistake that would amount to professional 
negligence. There is no evidence of that here.
Id note that even if Mrs B appointed her own solicitors, QIC would require them to act in line 
with their standard terms of appointment; theyd be acting for both Mrs B and QIC; theyd 
likely be required to update QIC, advise them about prospects of success and whether the 
claim was proportionate to pursue on an ongoing basis; theyd need QICs authorisation 
before incurring any costs; and the cover for fees under the policy would also be the same  
Mrs B would still have to cover any fees relating to the breach of privacy claim. So, overall, I 
dont think Mrs Bs position would be substantively different. 
Mrs B says I overlooked QIC had said the claim was complex and that the panel solicitors 
said costs could exceed £100k  which would be reasons why she could appoint her own 
solicitors. And she feels I didnt take her health and circumstances into account when looking 
at the location of the panel solicitors and her preference to meet her solicitors face to face. I 
considered those issues in coming to my provisional decision. I empathise with Mrs Bs 
circumstances. But I see no reason to change my conclusions as she hasnt raised any new 
points.  
Mrs B says since I havent seen the panel solicitors advice its unclear how I reached the 
conclusion that proceedings are in their early stages. She says the panel solicitors were 
recommending proceedings, so she is entitled to appoint her own solicitors now. The email 
summary of the panel solicitors advice dated 5 August 2022 recommended the steps to be 
taken and suggested the action against the neighbours was in its early stages as I 
concluded in my provisional decision. QIC have clarified thats the position. If a letter before 
action has been sent as Mrs B suggests, Im not aware of what it said or the neighbours 
response. Even if they rejected the claim, in the absence of any legal advice that the next 
step is to issue proceedings, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask QIC to agree to    
Mrs B appointing her own solicitors yet. 
Mrs B feels QIC improperly withdrew cover under the policy and since no progress has been 
made with her claim, her position has been prejudiced. As Mrs B has been in dispute with 
QIC about cover and the appointment of panel solicitors since the solicitors said they could 
no longer act, her insurance claim hasnt progressed. I dont think its reasonable to expect 
QIC to have taken action until the dispute has been resolved.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think QIC have treated Mrs B unfairly. So, I dont uphold 
her complaint. But Id encourage the parties to cooperate in progressing Mrs Bs claim. As 
things stand, QIC may appoint alternative panel solicitors. But if they advise it has become necessary to issue court proceedings, QIC will need to consider allowing Mrs B to instruct 
her own solicitors if thats what she wants to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman