DRN-4320131
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Direct Pension Services an appointed 
representative of Whiting Group Limited to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension and a Section 32 Buy-out plan. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. For 
clarity I shall refer to the respondent business throughout this final decision as Whiting. 
What happened
Mr R had some deferred DB scheme benefits with a former employer hed worked for until 
1999. In mid-2003 Mr R approached Whiting out of interest to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs. 
On 11 November 2003, Whiting completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives noting that Mr R had recently separated from his partner and 
was looking to purchase a property for which he needed cash for the deposit. It also noted 
that Mr R wasnt sure how much his future property would cost and that he had spare 
income to afford a mortgage. Whiting also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to 
risk, which it deemed to be cautious. 
On 21 November 2003, Whiting sent Mr R its recommendation report along with its technical 
report. Whitings recommendation report said that Mr Rs objective was to obtain cash 
immediately to assist with a property purchase and whilst the exact amount wasnt quantified 
it noted that Mr R needed at least the amount that could be released as tax-free cash (TFC) 
from his transferred pension (an amount of £19,374.89). 
Whiting recommended Mr R didnt transfer his DB scheme because it would leave him worse 
off in retirement as a consequence. It recommended that Mr R should leave his deferred DB 
scheme benefits where they were until his normal retirement date (NRD). Whiting also said 
Mr R should consider taking out a personal loan to fund the house deposit instead and it 
provided an illustration of how much the loan may cost Mr R. 
Whiting agreed to arrange the transfer of Mr Rs DB scheme on an insistent client basis and 
it provided him with a letter to sign. The letter stated that Mr R understood that Whiting had 
made him fully aware that he could achieve his financial planning objectives without 
immediately releasing his pension benefits and that he would be left with a lower retirement 
income. Mr R signed the letter on 27 November 2003. 
In January 2004, the cash equivalent transfer value of Mr Rs DB scheme - £88,551.76  
was transferred to an immediate vesting Section 32 Buy-out plan and a personal pension 
plan with a provider I shall refer to as S. Mr R received £19,524 in TFC and immediately 
drew a single life level annuity of £1,856 per annum from the personal pension. The sum of 
£17,842.68 invested in the Section 32 Buy-out plan remained invested in a cautious lifestyle 
fund with S until 2015. In 2015 Mr R purchased another annuity which provided him with an 
annual income of £1,100. 
Mr R, through his representative, complained to Whiting in September 2022. Specifically 
Mr R complained that:
the insistent client process had not been correctly followed by Whiting;
the advice he received to transfer his DB scheme wasnt in his best interests and he 
lost the guarantees associated with his DB scheme;
the transfer was inappropriate for someone who had no wish to take any risk with his 
pension;
his personal situation was such that he had no capacity for loss;
had he left his DB scheme where it was it would now have a cash equivalent transfer 
value of £249,610.37;
Whiting had provided him with negligent advice, as a result of which he had suffered 
a financial loss. 
Whiting looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it 
made Mr R fully aware of the benefits he would be giving up and it advised him about the 
risks and told him not to proceed. Whiting said it had told Mr R that he would be acting 
against its advice should he choose to proceed but he ignored the advice he was given. 
Whiting said it had followed the regulatory processes applicable at the time and had 
provided Mr R with detailed information so that he could make an informed decision. It also 
said it had made Mr R aware that any future value of his pension if he transferred would be 
dependent on investment performance which wasnt guaranteed. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Whiting, Mr R complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended 
that it was upheld. He thought that the process followed by Whiting didnt mean that Mr R 
could truly be regarded as an insistent client. And he thought that Whitings communications 
werent clear or fair nor that it had acted in Mr Rs best interests. Our Investigator also 
thought that the transfer was unlikely to have been financially viable. Finally, our Investigator 
recommended that Whiting compensate Mr M in line with the regulators (the Financial 
Conduct Authority  FCA) guidance for redress for non-compliant pension transfers. 
Mr R accepted our Investigators findings but Whiting disagreed. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business rules (COB).  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I require Whiting to put things 
right. My reasons are set out below. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Whitings actions 
here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COB 5.3.29A(4): where the then regulator expected a prospective investor to receive 
sufficient, clear information to make an informed investment decision based on a firm 
understanding of the risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations 
and options they may be giving up.  
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 buy-out plan was expected to be 
on a similar basis to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment 
were shown. 
COB 5.3.22R which said:
1) A firm must ensure that a transfer value analysis is carried out in accordance with 
COB 6.6.87 R - COB 6.6.93 R (Projections) before it makes any recommendation to 
a customer to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme.
2) A copy of the analysis must be delivered with the key features document or otherwise 
provided to the customer before he gives consent to the application to transfer.
3) The firm must take reasonable steps to ensure the customer understands the 
analysis, drawing attention to factors which do and do not support the 
recommendation to transfer.
COB 5.3.23R which said:
A firm must provide a projection of the possible future benefits of the proposed individual 
pension contract before it makes any personal recommendation to a customer to opt out of, 
or transfer from, an occupational pension scheme.
1) The format and nature of the benefits given in the projection must, so far as possible, 
be the same as those which apply under the occupational pension scheme of which 
the customer is, or is eligible to become, a member.
2) If it is not possible for the benefits shown in the projection to replicate those of the 
occupational pension scheme, an explanation must be given.
3) If the customer has expressed an interest in changing the structure of his eventual 
benefits, an additional projection may also be prepared on that basis.
COB 5.3.24R which said: 
A suitability letter relating to a personal recommendation to opt out of or transfer from an 
occupational pension scheme must include: 
1) a summary of the disadvantages as well as the advantages of opting out or 
transferring; and
2) in the case of a pension opt out, a financial analysis explaining the decision to opt-
out.COB 5.3.25R which said: 
If, contrary to the advice of the firm, a private customer instructs the firm to arrange a 
pension opt-out or pension transfer, the firm must:
1) make and retain a clear record of the firm's advice that the private customer should 
not proceed with the pension opt-out or pension transfer and the private customer's 
instructions to proceed with the transaction; and
2) provide a further confirmation and explanation, in writing, to the private customer that 
the firm's advice is that the private customer should not proceed with the pension 
opt-out or pension transfer.
Insistent client
A key aspect in this case is Whitings categorisation of Mr R as an insistent client  although 
COB didnt define this at the time this was generally understood to be a client that wishes to 
take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants the business to 
facilitate the transaction against its own advice.
At the time of the advice, the rules, specifically COB 5.3.25R (as set out above), required 
financial firms with customers that wanted the firm to arrange a pension transfer to keep a 
clear record of the advice not to proceed, along with the customers instructions to proceed. 
Financial firms were also required to provide a further confirmation and explanation in writing 
to the customer that its advice was not to proceed. 
In its recommendation report, Whiting recommended that Mr R should not transfer away 
from his DB scheme. It said this was because Mr R could achieve his objective (of raising a 
sum for a house deposit) by other means and because the transfer would reduce his long-
term retirement income. The report then said that Mr R had decided he wanted to go ahead 
on an insistent client basis in any event. It went on to recommend a solution that allowed for 
Mr R to receive payment of a maximum lump sum plus an immediate annual pension by 
splitting his transferred benefits between two pension plans. This meant that the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension element of the transferred benefits remained invested until it became 
available at age 60 (Mr R being aged 52 at the time of the advice). 
Mr R says that he doesnt recall being treated as an insistent client nor did he understand 
the implications of being classed as such. He also said that if Whiting intended to treat him 
as an insistent client then it should have explained this to him in detail and provided him with 
paperwork to sign to confirm that he agreed to being treated as insistent. Whiting has said 
that it did just that, having Mr R sign a templated letter on 27 November 2003. 
Having considered all of the evidence presented, and whilst Whitings recommendation and 
technical reports did set out that its recommendation for Mr R was not to proceed with the 
transfer, I think there were weaknesses and failings in the advice process which meant 
Whiting didnt pay due regard to Mr Rs interests, information needs or treat him fairly. And I 
think its more likely than not that Mr R understood or believed overall that Whiting was 
recommending he should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because in the recommendation report immediately underneath the summary of 
why Whiting recommended Mr R should not transfer away from his DB scheme, it explained 
the steps Mr R needed to take to do just this, including completing and signing the 
documents listed on the document checklist. So I think that the recommendation not to 
proceed was seriously undermined by advice in the same report about how Mr R could still 
go ahead and what benefits he would receive if he did so. And although I have not seen the checklist referred to in the report, it is not unreasonable to assume that one of those 
documents was Whitings insistent client templated letter. I say this because I can see that 
the two reports were dated 21st November 2003 and that Mr R signed the letter six days 
later on 27 November 2003. 
I dont think Whiting met with the requirements laid out in COB 5.3.25R. I say this because 
despite asking Mr R to sign a letter instructing Whiting to proceed with the transfer, it didnt 
then go on to provide a further confirmation and explanation that its advice was that he 
should not proceed with the transfer. Had it done so, I think that wouldve helped Mr R 
understand that he was proceeding against Whitings advice
I think if Whiting was confident in its advice and recommendation, and it was treating Mr R 
fairly, it wouldnt have told him at the same time as delivering its recommendation how he 
could readily put it aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how 
Mr R could ignore Whitings recommendation was unfair to Mr R and wasnt in his interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Rs interest to go against Whitings recommendation  yet I consider 
Whiting made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis 
placed on this, that Mr R could reasonably have interpreted that overall that Whiting was 
recommending he go ahead and transfer. 
I say this partly because I can see that there was a telephone call between the adviser and 
Mr R before the reports were sent to him. The call note from that call states: 
He was originally enquiring about his pension out of interest. He has since split up with his 
partner & will be looking to buy a home in the New Year. This cash will be used for the 
deposit/expenses and he can afford to raise a mortgage. Not sure of prices yet. We 
discussed lower [pension] benefits by taking early, which he understood. Send figures and 
he will decide for sure
But Im not satisfied that this note demonstrates that Whiting clearly explained to Mr R the 
benefits of his DB scheme, the value of them in retirement and all the risks associated with 
transferring. I think the note implies the conversation was brief and that Whiting left the 
decision with Mr R rather than to clearly explain that it was advising him that he shouldnt 
transfer. I think it would have been better had Whiting set out in writing its recommendation 
not to proceed before exploring other ways he could proceed. That would have allowed 
Mr R to digest the recommendation fully before making any decisions. 
My view on this point is further strengthened by the fact the recommendation report states 
that Mr R had already instructed Whiting to proceed with the transfer. So it seems to me that 
Mr R had instructed Whiting that he wanted to proceed before it had provided him with its 
written recommendation. But I cant see that Whiting made and retained a clear record of 
Mr Rs instructions to proceed with the transaction. I dont think the note on the fact-find can 
be said to be such a record and, in any event, it predates the recommendation. There is no 
such instruction that post-dates the recommendation. 
And I also say this because the templated insistent client letter that Whiting provided to 
Mr R to sign made no mention of the fact that Whiting had recommended Mr R did not 
proceed. Rather Mr R was asked to put his signature to a document that confirmed that he 
had received Whitings recommendation and its reports and that they contained a fair 
representation of his financial planning objectives and his available options. The letter also 
confirmed that Mr R had received illustrations from S and that he had received full details of 
the charges and fees that would be applied. Nowhere in the letter did Whiting plainly set out that it had recommended that Mr R didnt transfer, that he understood what its 
recommendation was and that he wished to proceed regardless.
So the letter Mr R signed was short and contained no detail about what he understood about 
the recommendation that Whiting had made. But I think it wouldve been important for 
Whiting to ensure Mr R understood what he was getting into. And while I acknowledge it 
wasnt a requirement at the time, given Mr Rs apparent financial inexperience, a good way 
to have done this wouldve been to see, in his own words, that he understood the 
recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed. In the absence of this Im not 
persuaded that Mr R was able to make an informed choice here. 
I dont think the content of the letter Mr R signed adequately demonstrates that he knew and 
understood the risks involved in the transfer and the benefits hed be losing by doing so. So, 
Im not persuaded that the templated letter alone sufficiently showed it was fair for Whiting to 
treat Mr R was an insistent client. 
And I cant ignore either that Whiting failed to have regard to Mr Rs information needs (as 
required by COB 5.22R) such that he was able to make a fully informed decision. Thats 
because Whiting failed to provide Mr R with a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) for his 
consideration (contrary to COB 5.3.22R). A TVAS is essentially a comparison between the 
benefits being offered by the DB scheme and the investment return (also known as the 
critical yield) the transferred pension would need to attain in order to be able to match the 
scheme benefits at NRD. For the consumer, the TVAS is an essential component of the 
advice stage as it provides essential information so that an informed decision can be taken. 
But there is no record of any such report being provided to Mr R. Indeed, when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service asked Whiting for a copy of its TVAS (or some evidence of the critical 
yield) it replied to say that there was no requirement at the time for it to produce one. 
So I consider that Whiting failed to provide Mr R with sufficient, clear information so that he 
could make an informed decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and 
the full knowledge of what he was giving up. 
I think it should have been clear to Whiting that Mr R had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr R was an 
experienced investor  in fact theres nothing to indicate he had any prior investment 
experience. I think this alone shouldve put Whiting on notice that it had to be careful if it was 
to take matters through the insistent client route.
Overall Im not persuaded that Mr R was able to make an informed choice here. I also think 
that given Mr Rs explanation about why he wanted to proceed  he said he had an 
immediate need for a lump sum for a property deposit but that he had no idea about how 
much he might be spending on a property or when that might be  ought to have prompted 
Whiting to ask further questions. 
Whilst I can see that Whiting recommended that Mr R could achieve his objective by taking 
out a personal loan Ive seen no evidence it interrogated Mr Rs sole objective in any detail 
before considering how to fund it, or if it was an objective that needed funding at all. Had it 
done so I think it would have further strengthened its view that transferring his DB scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mr Rs, as least not at that point in time. That Whiting didnt do so has 
been highlighted by the fact that Mr R never did purchase a property and has remained in 
rented accommodation ever since. So Im not persuaded that his objective was a real one or 
set in stone. No actual plans to purchase a property appear to have been in the pipeline. I think that at the very least, Whiting should have recommended, in the alternative, that Mr R 
defer thinking about transferring until he had found a property to buy and knew what size 
deposit he might need. If the house deposit was a true objective I think Whiting should have 
gathered more information from Mr R about his intended property purchase to better 
understand the position  if only to understand if it was a true objective  before continuing 
to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer his pension.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Whiting followed meant that Mr R can truly be regarded as an 
insistent client. Whitings communications overall werent clear or fair, it failed to have 
regard to Mr Rs information needs and I think it failed to act with due care and skill.
If Whiting had acted fairly and reasonably, fully interrogating Mr Rs objective, I dont think 
Mr R wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I think 
Mr R was an inexperienced investor who didnt possess the requisite knowledge to fully 
understand the consequences of going against the advice he was given. Im also not 
persuaded that Mr Rs alleged plans to buy a property was something he had firm plans 
for at the time, such that he would have gone ahead and transferred in any event. I think 
Mr R relied solely on the advice and process Whiting employed  so if things had 
happened as they should have, I dont think Mr R would have insisted on going ahead 
with the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Whiting must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mr R started taking benefits directly after the transfer he didnt retire at 
that time. And I dont think he wouldve taken his benefits from the DB scheme any earlier 
than his normal retirement age.  So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal 
retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4 Whiting should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Whitings offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Whiting may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Whiting Group Limited 
to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Whiting Group Limited pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Whiting Group Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman