DRN-3928445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Saga Insurance Services Limited provided them with 
misinformation, when they raised a question about their travel insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs D have said that misinformation from Saga caused them to lose out financially.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have explained that on 14 February 2022, they booked a trip abroad. Shortly 
after this, on 9 March 2022, they purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover them for this holiday. The policy was purchased through Saga.
The start date of their insurance policy was 7 April 2022, the date they were due to depart on 
their holiday. With the end date being one year later, on 6 April 2023.
Unfortunately, on 2 April 2022, Mr D tested positive for the Coronavirus. And a couple of 
days later, on 4 April 2022, Mrs D also tested positive. So, theyve explained they were no 
longer able to travel on holiday.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that they contacted their holiday provider, on 4 April 2022, who 
offered to provide them with a credit voucher, for the cost of the trip. But Mr and Mrs D said 
when they noted they had travel insurance, the holiday provider advised them to check 
whether they had cover under their insurance policy first. So, this is what Mr and Mrs D did.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that they contacted Saga in relation to this. And said the Saga 
representative told them they were covered for the need to cancel a trip, due to contracting 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs D said they relied on this information and decided to pursue a claim 
through their insurer  rather than taking the offer provided to them by their holiday provider.
But following this, their insurer declined their claim. Their insurer noted that Mr and Mrs Ds 
insurance policy didnt start until 7 April 2022. So, they only had cover from that point. This 
meant that contracting Covid-19 and needing to cancel the holiday prior to 7 April 2022 
wasnt covered. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this decision. And they were unhappy with the information 
Sagas representative had given them on 4 April 2022. So, they raised a complaint about the 
matter.
Saga responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. It said the insurer had correctly declined Mr 
and Mrs Ds claim. And Saga noted that when Mr and Mrs D spoke to its representative on 4 
April 2022 their representative wasnt in a position to conclude whether there was a valid 
claim or not. Saga said Mr and Mrs D were correctly informed they would need to contact the 
claims department. 
Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied with Sagas response. So, they referred their complaint 
to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator listened to a recording of the call in April 2022, and agreed the Saga 
representative was giving general information, as opposed to confirming Mr and Mrs Ds 
specific claim. Our investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs Ds policy documentation made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs D had selected cover to start on 7 April 2022, and not before.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They said when they spoke to Saga, it wasnt clear they werent 
talking to the claims department, and they had left the call with the understanding their claim 
was covered in full. Mr and Mrs D said they were looking for a refund for their cancelled 
holiday. 
Because Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint in part, and requiring Saga to pay 
Mr and Mrs D compensation of £200. Ive explained my reasoning for this below.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is that they were misinformed by Saga, when they 
called it for some advice. As an intermediary, Id expect Saga to provide clear information 
when a consumer calls, asking for information.
So, Ive thought about whether Saga did this in Mr and Mrs Ds case. And I think Saga could 
have provided clearer information to Mr and Mrs D. 
Ive listened to the recording of the conversation on 4 April 2022. Mr and Mrs D explained to 
Saga that they had a query. They said theyd tested positive for Coronavirus and were due 
to go on holiday. They wanted to know whether their insurance policy would cover this. The 
representative confirmed that the policy did provide cover for if someone tested positive and 
needed to cancel their holiday due to this. I do think that the representative confirming this 
did give Mr and Mrs D the impression their claim would be covered. 
The representative did note that Mr and Mrs D would need to contact the claims department. 
But they didnt note it was only the claims department that would be able to confirm whether 
Mr and Mrs D had cover. Or that Mr and Mrs D should refer to their policy documents, to 
check what cover they had. I think these actions would have been best practice. It would 
have let Mr and Mrs D know there was no guarantee of the claim they were describing being 
covered. And it would have led to Mr and Mrs D seeing their cover didnt start until 7 April 
2022. It would have avoided some confusion here.
As I think Saga could have provided clearer information to Mr and Mrs D, Ive thought about 
whether Saga need to do anything to put the error right.
Mr and Mrs D have explained they were confident their claim would be accepted, given the 
above information provided to them. So, when their insurer told them the claim wouldnt be 
accepted, they were shocked and upset. I can appreciate this was the case. Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations had been raised by the Saga representative. So, I do think it would be fair and 
reasonable to provide Mr and Mrs D with some compensation. And I think £200 fairly 
recognises the distress Mr and Mrs D felt, realising they had been given unclear information 
on the phone.
Mr and Mrs D have said that relying on the information provided to them by Saga meant they 
lost out on the credit voucher their holiday provider had initially offered them. Theyve provided me with some internal system notes from their holiday provider, which they gained 
from a subject access request. 
From looking at these, I can see the holiday provider had initially offered Mr and Mrs D the 
opportunity to amend their holiday dates. And Mr and Mrs D called the provider back after 
speaking to Saga, and noted they would claim through their insurer instead, So, I do think Mr 
and Mrs D relied on the information from Saga.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost a credit voucher, or refund of their holiday as a result. The 
holiday providers notes show they wouldnt offer a credit voucher or refund, in cases of 
positive Covid-19 tests. Instead, they would only offer for the trip dates to be amended. As I 
dont think Mr and Mrs D would have got the money back from the holiday provider, had they 
been provided with clearer information from Saga, I dont intend of requiring Saga to refund 
the cost of Mr and Mrs Ds holiday. 
Its my understanding that the holiday provider wont allow Mr and Mrs D to amend their trip 
dates any longer. But thats not something I hold Saga accountable for. It wouldnt have 
been reasonably foreseeable for Saga that the holiday provider would rescind an offer. And 
Saga hadnt been told about the offer when Mr and Mrs D called on 4 April 2022 either. So, it 
couldnt factor this into any information it gave at the time. Whether it was fair for the holiday 
provider to rescind its offer isnt something within my remit to consider. So, I cant comment 
on its actions. 
Saga responded and accepted it. Mr and Mrs D responded and didnt agree. In summary, 
and in relation to Saga, Mr and Mrs D reiterated that:
The information provided to them by Saga on 4 April 2022, on which they based their 
decision to decline the credit note offered to them, was incomplete.
The policy was marketed as providing cover, and therefore their expectations for the 
policy had already been set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, in line with the findings in my 
provisional decision.
This is because neither party has provided me with evidence or comments that alter my 
findings in the provisional decision, or the reasoning provided within it.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds comments, that they relied on the information provided in the 
call on 4 April 2022, when returning to their holiday provider. In my provisional decision Ive 
noted why I considered this meant £200 compensation was fair for this. And not anything 
further. As I havent received any new or differing information in this respect, the reasoning 
in my provisional decision remains the same. So, I dont intend on reiterating this hear. Ive 
included it above. 
Mr and Mrs D have said the policy was marketed as providing cover for the circumstances 
they found themselves in. And this set their expectations. Mr and Mrs Ds policy did provide 
them with cover. After the start date selected for their policy. But Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is 
about what happened following them contracting Covid-19 and speaking to Saga. It isnt about the initial sale of their policy. So, I havent considered the sales process as part of the 
complaint, and it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of it. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Saga 
Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman