DRN-4222414
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (LS) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
LS lent Mr S one instalment loan in August 2022, the records show the loan was repaid in 
April 2023. The loan was for £110 to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments of £7.83, so Mr S 
was required to repay around £31.32 per month.
When Mr S complained to LS, it didnt uphold his complaint and said it didnt lend to him 
when it shouldnt have. Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where one 
of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said. Our adjudicator didnt think LS did 
anything wrong and so didnt recommend that Mr S complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure 
the consumer could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. LS needed to satisfy itself that 
the consumer could repay his loan without undue difficulties, making his repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. There was only one loan lent here and so 
I dont think the frequency of loans, or a pattern of lending was a concern here.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr S complaint. The loan amount and repayments represented a very 
small proportion of his Mr S declared income of £2,500, LS worked out Mr S living 
expenses and credit commitments to be a total of £821, slightly more that Mr S declared. On 
the basis of these calculations, Mr S was left with around £1,679 which was sufficient to 
repay the loan and leave some disposable income for the month.
Mr S has said LS should have carried proper checks and had it checked his payslips, bank 
statements and credit file it would have seen he was borrowing from several lenders and that 
he was indebted and couldnt afford the loan. LS did carry out a credit search and it has 
provided the results and the results show Mr S had ten active accounts and they were all up 
to date. The checks showed Mr S didnt have any defaults in the last 36 months and his 
most recent delinquent account was 21 months prior to this loan.
LS was required to carry out proportionate checks and those checks arent prescriptive and 
are dependent on a number of things as stated above, bearing in mind the loan amount and 
repayments, I dont think it would have been proportionate for LS to have requested Mr S 
bank statements or payslips. I think as it was early in the lending relationship as well, LS was 
entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr S and also the results of its own checks.
LS did enough checks before lending to Mr S and those checks showed he could afford the 
loan repayments without financial detriment. So, I dont think LS was wrong to lend this loan 
to Mr S and I wont be asking it to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman