DRN-2924300
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has handled his 
claim for a faulty fridge freezer.
What happened
Mr J has a kitchen appliance insurance policy with British Gas. 
In June 2020, he reported a fault in his fridge freezer with British Gas. An 
appointment was scheduled for 2 July 2020.
During the visit on 2 July, parts were ordered and one of these was fitted (the drawer) 
on 5 August. 
Despite efforts to obtain the second part (a cover for the drawer), it was established 
that the part was obsolete. 
Repair of the fridge freezer could not be carried out as Mr J had expected.
The manufacturer of the part also confirmed the part was obsolete.
British Gas has said the policy terms and conditions state if they arent able to get 
hold of the parts, they may need to cancel the agreement (or part of it).
They didnt think this was necessary as the fridge freezer was functioning, therefore, 
no adjustments were made to the policy.
Mr J was unhappy with British Gas and made a complaint.
A final response was issued in September 2020. British Gas accepted that delays 
and inconvenience was caused. They refunded Mr J with two months of premiums of 
£20.39 each and a compensation amount of £60. 
Mr J remained unhappy with the amount he was offered and with the service hed 
received. So he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that Mr J had experienced 
distress and inconvenience. But she thought the total compensation Mr J had 
received was fair and reasonable.
Mr J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me. 
In summary, he says he had to wait nearly two months to find out the part was 
obsolete and British Gas relaying the wrong information over three times isnt 
reasonable. Overall, he feels the delays were unacceptable and the time he 
spent on everything has not been valued. He would like further compensation of 
£100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
To be able to uphold the complaint, I need to decide if the £100.78 compensation 
paid to Mr J is fair and reasonable. Its not in dispute that delays were caused, and 
the service provided could have been better. 
I acknowledge Mr Js concerns that it took longer than expected to sort out the issue 
he had with his fridge freezer and it took longer than it should have to identify the part 
required was obsolete. 
However, I can see British Gas acknowledged the service could have been better, 
delays were caused, and Mr J had suffered distress and inconvenience.
British Gas refunded two months of premiums of £20.39. I have to take into account 
that the premium included other appliances which he also had cover for on the policy. 
So, in effect, hes had the benefit of having cover for his other appliances even 
though he received a premium refund for two months on this.
Mr J also received £60 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable. He 
submitted the claim in June 2020 and while it took a few visits and there was a delay 
in finding out that the second part was obsolete, the compensation paid to Mr J isnt 
unfair. British Gas has acknowledged they could have provided better service.
I dont think a further £100 Is justified. In the terms of the policy, when a part isnt 
available, British Gas can cancel the agreement. However, it decided not to do this 
because, while I accept there was a part missing, it didnt affect the overall function of 
the fridge freezer. Even though the part was vital, British Gasthe fridge freezer 
continued working until a further claim was submitted for a different reason later in 
the year. 
I dont doubt Mr J has suffered distress and inconvenience because of the way the 
claim was handled by British Gas. But having looked at everything, I dont think a 
further £100 is justified and Im satisfied that a total compensation of £100.78 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman