DRN-1501477
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited applied unfair charges 
for damage when he returned his vehicle at the end of a hire purchase agreement. He wants 
the charges to be cancelled.
What happened
Mr M tells us that at the end of the hire period he returned the vehicle in perfect condition 
having had it valeted. He disputes he was responsible for the damage and refers to a gap of 
6 days between the vehicle being returned and inspected. He feels the charges are 
unjustified.
MBFS told us that the vehicle had been inspected twice and that at the later inspection 
further damage had been identified that hadnt been noted during the first inspection. It said 
it had removed the charges for this. It said that this reduced the damage charge to £615 but 
as further gesture of goodwill it was prepared to accept £355. But if Mr M didnt accept this it 
reserved the right to pursue the full balance of £615.
Our investigator issued two views, in the first of which he said he was upholding the 
complaint. But following the provision of additional information from MBFS he changed his 
opinion and issued a second view. In this he didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He said that MBFS had provided information including photographs of the damage 
and job cards to show that the damage had been repaired. And he felt MBFS had acted 
fairly in charging £355.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would be disappointing for Mr M to receive additional charges and 
particularly so if these werent expected.
Ive viewed photographs of the vehicle which depict the alleged damage. Ive also seen the 
initial vehicle appraisal form and the return standards which were contained within the 
agreement. And Ive considered the job cards which list the damage that has been repaired.
The initial invoice dated 27 April 2019 listed damage charges of £965 but this was later 
reduced by £350 on 26 July 2019.
The damage relates to rear bumper scratch exceeding 25mm (£210); used tyre sealant 
(£65); scratches to RH alloy (£80); RH rear door scratch (£260).
MBFS sent a final response letter which indicated that it had reduced the charges by £350 
as some of the charges hadnt been identified in the initial appraisal. I think that was fair and 
reasonable, even though the charges applied after the second inspection were supported by 
photographic evidence.
It also offered to remove the charge of £260 relating to the rear door as the image didnt 
support this charge. Although this was described as a gesture of goodwill its only 
reasonable to apply a charge which is fully supported by the available information. So I think 
MBFS was also right to offer to remove this charge.
The damage for which the charge of £355 has been applied is, in my opinion, supported by 
both the initial appraisal and the later photographs. As Mr M agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the agreement which included the return standards, I see no reason why MBFS 
shouldnt apply these.
In summary, I find that MBFS has adopted a fair approach  indeed its probable that it 
would have been able to justify applying charges greater than the £355 it now seeks. The 
charges of £355 applied are, in my opinion, due to damage or issues which fall to be 
charged under the terms and conditions.
I accept that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman