DRN-2348467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the actions of Allianz Global Corporate & Speciality SEs 
underwriting agent before Allianz issued a housing warranty insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a house built by a developer. Allianzs underwriting agent (that Ill call B) 
carried out a technical review of the property. Following the review, Allianz issued a 
certificate of insurance on 15 February 2018 and the policy started that day.
Mr and Mrs H say theyve found numerous problems with the property, including major 
structural issues. The developer went into liquidation in 2018, and so Mr and Mrs H have 
had to pay for the work to be done themselves. Although they made a claim under the 
warranty, the problems with the property werent covered.
Mr and Mrs H have complained that B concluded that their property was complete, when 
they say it wasnt. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our 
investigators findings, and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs H requested to speak with the ombudsman reviewing their 
complaint. However, after reviewing their file, I didnt think this was necessary. Im satisfied 
theyve made their arguments quite clear, and I can assure them that Ive carefully 
considered their comments and the evidence theyve submitted.
 
Mr and Mrs H have made it clear their complaint is that, in their view, B shouldnt have 
'signed off their property as complete. Ive therefore only considered this point, and havent 
looked at Allianzs decision to turn down the claim. 
Although Mr and Mrs H complaint is about Bs actions, B acted as Allianzs agent and 
therefore Allianz is responsible for Bs actions. 
At the start of the policy, there is an information section. This says:
If you are moving into a brand new home you would expect the home to have been 
completed to any agreed standard and specifications. Otherwise, you should have agreed 
with your Developer a schedule for any last outstanding tasks to have been completed. As a 
buyer, the Developer has an obligation to deliver to you a home that meets reasonable 
standards.
It is, however, quite common for some small items, usually of a more cosmetic nature, to 
remain outstanding. The usual practice is for these items to appear in a snagging list, 
which is agreed with the Developer, who will then rectify those outstanding items.
During the construction period, [B]s technical consultant will have carried out various checks 
of your property to ensure that it is essentially complete and to confirm acceptability for 
insurance by us (as the Insurers). However, this is not the same thing as a final snagging 
inspection that guarantees that the final quality of the home will meet your expectations; you 
are the only party who can do that. You should also be aware that the checks carried out by 
[B] cannot confirm that your Premises are entirely free of defects.
We therefore recommend that you undertake a detailed inspection of the home when you 
move in, and advise the Developer immediately of any concerns you might have. It is your 
responsibility to make sure that the snagging items are rectified as this Policy does not 
cover these snagging items.
On 15 January 2018, Mr and Mrs H advised Allianz there were a number of issues that the 
developer would need to resolve before practical completion.
On 22 January 2018, B completed its technical review of the property. On 12 February 2018, 
building control issued the certificate of practical completion. Then on 14 February 2018, the 
certificate of insurance was issued by Allianz. The certificate said:
This is to certify that the Premises have been subjected to the technical risk management 
system operated by [B] as appropriate to the specific form of construction.
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs H arranged for a structural engineer (Mr C) to give an opinion on 
the property, based on photos that had been taken on 22 February 2018. Mr C identified a 
number of issues, such as some areas of missing decking, no handrail to the rear terrace, 
external tiling to the swimming pool incomplete, and incomplete electrical installation. Mr C 
said that, based on the photos, he didnt think the property had reached practical completion. 
He also explained that practical completion generally meant the point at which a building 
project is complete, except for some minor defects.   
Then in August 2018, Mr and Mrs H arranged for a chartered surveyor (Mr P) to inspect their 
property. Mr P found issues with the drainage, as well as problems with the external 
retaining walls on the property. It was later confirmed that fence posts had been anchored to 
a temporary support, and that a permanent reinforced concrete retaining wall ought to have 
been installed during construction. 
Mr and Mrs H say that the property shouldnt have been signed off as complete by B 
because there were multiple issues and areas entirely unfinished, and so the property wasnt 
complete. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling on the matter. Theyve found 
themselves in an extremely difficult position because the developer has gone into liquidation, 
and the issues with the property apparently arent covered by the warranty. However, I dont 
agree with them that Allianz has done something wrong. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Hs contract was with their developer. The developer was responsible for 
building the property to the agreed specification, and in accordance with building regulations. 
Its my understanding that the building control function is to check that the property has been 
constructed in line with building regulations, and that practical completion has been 
achieved. When B carried out the technical review, the property still hadnt been signed off by building control. Allianz waited until that had happened on 12 February 2018 before it 
agreed to offer the insurance. 
Allianz has explained that B carried out the technical review in order to consider the state 
and condition of the structural integrity of the property. This was done in order to assist its 
decision on whether to provide insurance cover, and on what terms.
Although Mr C thought the property hadnt reached practical completion, that wasnt for B to 
decide. That decision was made by building control. Bs technical review was for Allianzs 
benefit, to ensure that the property was essentially complete (apart from what B presumably 
thought were snagging issues) in order for Allianz to offer insurance cover.
B didnt act on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf. It therefore wasnt Bs responsibility to check or 
provide any assurances to Mr and Mrs H that the property had been completed in line with 
building regulations and that there were no defects. The policy made it clear that that the 
checks carried out by B couldnt confirm that the property was entirely free from defects.
In agreeing to offer insurance cover, Allianz is obliged to cover any valid claims that fall 
under the warranty. Whilst a review of the property was carried out by its agent before the 
insurance cover was offered, that doesnt mean that it was required to identify all the issues 
with the property and bring them to Mr and Mrs Hs attention. Allianzs agent had thought the 
property was suitable for insurance, and it had also been signed off for practical completion 
by building control. Allianz therefore offered the warranty on that basis.
Despite my sympathy for the position in which Mr and Mrs H find themselves, I dont find that 
Allianz was at fault here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman