DRN-3848519
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to void his commercial landlords 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr J had a commercial landlords insurance policy underwritten by UKI. He made a claim in 
January 2021 after an escape of water in an upstairs property caused damage to the flat he 
owns below.
UKI appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. They discovered that two companies Mr P 
had been associated with had County Court Judgements (CCJs) against them. One against 
a company Ill call A in 2015 (for just over £900). And one against a company Ill call S in 
August 2020 (for over £12,500).
Neither CCJ had been disclosed by Mr P when he bought the policy. UKI pointed out to Mr P 
that hed been asked very specifically at that point whether he  or any companies he was 
associated with  had any CCJs.
UKI concluded that Mr P had made a careless misrepresentation when he bought the policy. 
They asked him for some further information about the CCJs, particularly the one against S 
in 2020. But Mr P didnt respond to the questions theyd asked. And at that point, they 
decided to void the policy. And of course, that meant they didnt give any further 
consideration to Mr Ps claim.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to UKI. They maintained their stance and 
said theyd been right to void the policy in light of the misrepresentation and the fact Mr P 
hadnt answered their questions about the 2020 CCJ.
So, Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had 
done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman and so the case was 
referred to me. 
I agreed with our investigators view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But because I 
disagreed in some details with how hes arrived at that conclusion, I issued a provisional 
decision. 
That allowed both Mr P and UKI an opportunity to provide further evidence or information 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision, which is this services last 
word on the case. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what Mr P was asked when he applied for the policy. 
Its clear he was asked specifically about previous CCJs.
As Mr P was a commercial customer, the applicable law is the Insurance Act 2015. In 
essence, this requires a customer to disclose to the potential insurer anything which 
might reasonably be relevant to their decision about whether to provide cover and, if 
so, on what terms.
Mr P was specifically asked about CCJs. It was or should have been obvious to him 
that UKI regarded that information as relevant.
Mr P tells us he never knew about the CCJ in 2015. Whether he did or not isnt really 
crucial in terms of my decision in this case. The more important information is about 
the 2020 CCJ.
Mr P tells us he did know about the 2020 CCJ at the time of his application for the 
policy with UKI. He didnt disclose it because he thought it was unjust and hed 
appealed against it  and he expected it to be set aside.
In fact, the CCJ has been set aside  though some considerable time after Mr P 
bought the policy and after his claim was made.
But thats not the point here. Its clear from what Mr P himself tells us that when he 
was asked that question in his application, he knew the company hed been 
associated with had a CCJ against it - and he chose not to disclose that to UKI.
I should be clear here that it would have been entirely reasonable to answer that 
question by saying that there was a CCJ, but that it was to be appealed  and to set 
out the background circumstances.
However, on the other hand, it wasnt entirely reasonable for Mr P to answer no to 
that question. Which is what he did.
UKI have accepted that Mr P may have misunderstood what was required and 
thought he was justified in not disclosing the information about the CCJ. So, they 
decided the misrepresentation was careless rather than knowing or reckless  which 
meant they returned his premium when they voided the policy.
But Im satisfied Mr P did in fact make a misrepresentation of the facts when he 
bought the policy. Whether he subsequently turned out to be right that the CCJ would 
be set aside is neither here nor there  he misrepresented the facts at the time. And 
that meant he didnt comply with his obligation under the Insurance Act 2015 to make 
a fair presentation to UKI of the risk involved in providing cover.
In coming to that particular conclusion, Ive agreed entirely with our investigators 
view and the reasons he gave for it.
I also agree with our investigator about what UKI were entitled to do  void the policy 
 when they found out about the misrepresentation. But I disagree about why they 
are entitled to do that. Thats why Im issuing a provisional decision now rather than a final decision, in case theres any further information or evidence either party wishes 
to provide or any comments they wish to make about my thinking  which is as 
follows.
There are documents sent to us by UKI which show that there was some internal 
debate within UKI about what to do in response to the misrepresentation by Mr P.
To put it as simply as I can, it appears that the senior underwriter involved concluded 
that UKI couldnt be entirely sure about whether they would never have offered cover 
had they known about the CCJ or whether they would have offered cover on different 
terms. It would depend on what the CCJ was about.
This is important because the Insurance Act would allow UKI to void the policy if 
theyd never have offered cover, but not if they would have offered cover on different 
terms. In that case, they would have been entitled to amend the policy in line with the 
terms they would have offered - and consider the existing claim in line with those new 
terms (any settlement may have been proportional depending on what premium Mr P 
should have paid).
Our investigator said that UKI would never have offered cover had they known about 
the CCJs. And on that basis, they were entitled to void the policy.
I dont think thats strictly correct. And I can see from the information we have on file 
that UKI went back to Mr P  initially in May 2021 and in chaser letters after that  to 
ask him what the 2020 CCJ was about, amongst other things.
In short, the senior underwriter had said that if the CCJ concerned a breach of 
housing regulations, UKI would never have offered cover. If it was about something 
else, they may have offered cover on different terms.
It appears from the information we currently have on file that Mr P never answered 
that question. He contacted UKI again later to reiterate his explanation about why he 
hadnt disclosed the CCJ. But he didnt provide any information relating to the 
background of the CCJ or what it was about.
I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI  in the absence of that information  to void 
the policy on the basis of the careless misrepresentation Mr P had made. If the CCJ 
information had been provided  and had been favourable to Mr P  the matter would 
likely have been resolved in a different way.
But given that Mr P has chosen not to answer the specific question UKI asked in May 
2021 (and chased several times after that) about the nature of the CCJ, I cant 
reasonably say that UKI have done anything wrong in voiding the policy.
I should point out that my decision can only ever be about whether UKI acted unfairly 
or unreasonably at the time they made their decision to void the policy, in light of the 
information they had available to them at that time.
If more relevant information were to come to light now or in future, Id expect UKI to 
consider it and act accordingly. But it wouldnt alter my opinion that the decision to 
void the policy was justified in all the circumstances at the relevant time.
And for those reasons I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
The responses to my provisional decisionUKI responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add.
Mr P responded immediately after the initial deadline (7 December 2022) that Id set for 
further comments. He asked for some additional time to get information or comments to us 
given that hed been working away from home and hadnt had regular access to emails or 
correspondence.
I agreed to a seven day extension of the deadline, as requested by Mr P. But hes not been 
in touch with us since then and the extra seven day period expired yesterday.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been through our case file again to confirm my provisional thinking on this complaint, 
and nothing has changed my mind. In the absence of any further comment or evidence from 
either party, I still think the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Im satisfied both parties have been given an opportunity to provide further information or 
comment. Mr P was granted exactly the length of extension that he asked for, after the 
original deadline that Id set in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman