DRN-4307445
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mistakenly credited a bank 
account held by a third party.
B wants Barclays to refund the money that it paid to the third partys account.
What happened
B held a business bank account with Barclays that was closed in 2003. In 2006 Barclays 
reallocated the account number and sort code to a different customer (the third party).
During 2018 and 2019, HMRC used the reallocated account details to transfer four sums of 
money intended for B totalling almost £17,900. When B discovered what had happened a 
few years later, it asked Barclays to refund the payments.
B thinks that if Barclays is going to reallocate old bank account numbers, it should have 
adequate protections in place to prevent the new account holder from receiving money 
intended for the previous account holder. 
Barclays contacted the third party who was unable to immediately return the entire amount 
paid by HMRC. The third party offered a repayment plan which Barclays passed on to B with 
the suggestion that if B was unhappy with the offer, it should take legal advice.
B was very unhappy with Barclays response. It thought Barclays should refund the money to 
B and then pursue the third party for repayment. 
Our investigator originally thought that this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider Bs 
complaint. Another ombudsman considered this question further and provisionally decided 
that Bs complaint was one that the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider. As both 
Barclays and B accepted the ombudsmans provisional decision, the investigator went on to 
consider the merits of the complaint.
After considering the merits, the investigator didnt recommend that Bs complaint be upheld. 
In summary she didnt think there had been a failure in Barclays customer service. She said 
that Barclays could not have known the payments were intended for B, as systems such as 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP) werent used by HMRC at the time. So, the payments were 
sent using the sort code and account number and not the name of the intended recipient. 
Our investigator explained that the Financial Conduct Authority doesnt prohibit the recycling 
of account numbers. She thought three years between closing Bs account and allocating the 
account number to the third party was a reasonable time frame. 
Finally, our investigator said it would be for B and not Barclays to pursue repayment of the 
money  either from HMRC or the third party. 
B is very unhappy with the investigation outcome. It says Barclays systems are not fit for 
purpose. It thinks Barclays should have taken extra care because after B closed its account 
in 2003, B opened a new one with Barclays in 2005. So, Barclays should have done more to 
prevent possible problems that can arise because of the recycling of an old account. 
B thinks that because of the nature of the third partys account, the HMRC payments should 
have rung alarm bells. B thinks Barclays failed to respond within deadlines set and doesnt 
think it was a complex case involving numerous parties.
B says it will contact the ICO about Barclays data protection breaches and thinks that 
Barclays should have reported the third party to the relevant authorities. 
Finally, B is unhappy with the investigators choice of wording in her closing comments.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. Its just that Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Bs bank account was closed many years ago and Barclays then recycled the account 
number and sort code. We are not the regulator of Barclays so I dont comment on the 
practice of recycling account numbers other than to say Barclays, like other banks, was not 
prevented from reusing old account numbers. I do however note that Barclays waited three 
years before reallocating the account number which shouldve given B plenty of time to notify 
parties about the change of bank account details. 
At the time that the payments were made in 2018 and 2019 CoP hadnt been launched. 
Even if it had been in place, Bacs payments  such as those made by HMRC  werent 
included. This means that Barclays used the sort code and account number to route the 
payments in accordance with the instructions given to it by HMRC. So, I cant fairly find that 
Barclays made a mistake with the payments. 
I appreciate B thinks that the nature of the payments and the fact they were made to a 
personal account with no history of dealings with HMRC, should have raised alarm bells but I 
dont consider Barclays was at fault. Although Barclays has systems in place to check for 
fraudulent activity, I wouldnt have expected the payments from HMRC - a non-ministerial   
government department based in the UK - to trigger these kinds of checks. So, I dont see 
how Barclays would have known that the payments werent intended for the third party  
particularly as neither the third party or B appear to have questioned them at the time.
Once Barclays was made aware of the problem later in 2021, it contacted the third party to 
try and recover the money. And Barclays forwarded the third partys repayment proposals to 
B. So, Im satisfied that Barclays tried to help B recover the payments. 
As I dont find Barclays made a mistake with the payments, I cant reasonably require it to 
refund the money to B. It would be for B to either try and reach some kind of repayment 
agreement with the third party or consider taking legal action to try and recover the money 
from the third party. I know that B thinks Barclays should involve the police but as far as I can see, the third party 
hasnt refused to return the money. They have simply said they dont have cleared funds to 
pay everything in one go. In the circumstances, I dont consider Barclays is wrong not to 
involve the police. It would be for either B or possibly HMRC as the party making the 
payments, to report the matter to the police if they choose.
Finally, Barclays accepts that there were some delays in the complaints process but 
complaint handling in itself is not a regulated activity which our service can usually consider 
complaints about. That being said, I note that even though Barclays took over three months 
to send a formal final response, it had already set out its position to B by email in early 
February 2022 and continued to engage with B by email and letter during the following 
months. So, Im not persuaded that theres been a failure in customer service which warrants 
an award of compensation to B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman