DRN-4234365
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited didnt pay a claim he made on his 
wedding insurance policy in full. 
What happened
Mr S was due to get married in 2020. The original date had to be moved due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and was rearranged (at the same venue) for June 2022. The booking receipt said 
this was for three nights at a cost of £6,000. In October 2021 Mr S discovered there was a 
problem with the venues planning permission and in future it would solely be used as 
holiday accommodation (and wouldnt hold events). 
He rearranged his wedding at an alternative venue. He obtained a refund of the £6,000 hed 
paid from his credit card provider and made a claim on his policy with RSA for the additional 
costs of rearrangement. He said the cost of the new venue was £5,195 but as it didnt offer 
accommodation that had been booked separately at a cost of £1,725 for three nights. He 
claimed for the additional £920 hed spent over his original budget.  
RSA accepted the claim. But it said the policy only covered the wedding day and the day 
before or day after. So it thought the comparison should be based on two nights 
accommodation at the rearranged venue. It also said some of those costs had been paid by 
Mr Ss father and so that wasnt a loss to him. Taking into account the policy excess it said 
the amount due to Mr S was around £250. But it said it would review matters if Mr S was 
able to provide a more detailed breakdown of the costs that would have been charged by the 
original venue.  
Our investigator was satisfied the policy only covered two nights accommodation. So he 
thought only that should be considered when deciding on the amount budgeted for the 
original wedding. But he thought it was reasonable of RSA to say it would need to see 
evidence of the breakdown of that budget. He didnt think it was reasonable to simply split 
this into thirds (£2,000 a night). Some of the £6,000 Mr S paid might relate to event rather 
than accommodation costs. He also thought it was appropriate of RSA to deduct the amount 
paid by Mr Ss father as he hadnt shown that was a loss to him. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the original venue hadnt been providing catering and so costs 
relating to that didnt form part of the amount paid to it. He accepted that his fathers 
payment shouldnt be included but still thought his loss was around £816 (less the policy 
excess). So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy. This does cover rearrangement 
costs and RSA has accepted Mr Ss circumstances are covered by his policy. And it says in 
the event of cancellation or curtailment of the wedding, wedding reception or wedding 
services for reasons shown in Part 1 above, we will pay up to the amount shown on your 
Schedule of cover to reimburse you for additional costs paid in rearranging the wedding 
and/or wedding reception and/or wedding services to a similar standard to the amount 
originally budgeted. 
Wedding services are defined as Any supplier you have a written contract with to provide 
services at or for the wedding or wedding reception on the wedding date or wedding 
reception date given. In this case the wedding date was 4 June with the reception taking 
place on the same day. I think its reasonable to say accommodation for the night before and 
night after the wedding (two nights) would constitute a wedding service as defined by the 
policy. 
As a result I think RSA were right to assess the rearranged wedding on the basis of two 
nights accommodation (rather than the three claimed for). But I think that should be done on 
a like for like basis. The reference to the amount originally budgeted is in a section which 
refers back to wedding services as defined in the policy. So its the budget for things falling 
within that definition which should be considered as part of this calculation (which in this 
case would again be two nights accommodation). 
The difficulty is in understanding how that applies to the £6,000 Mr S paid to the original 
venue. It appears hes effectively paid a flat fee for exclusive use of the venue over the hire 
period. Clearly some of those costs will reflect overnight accommodation. But he was also 
holding an event (the wedding reception) at the venue. So he would have been making use 
of its facilities (including its kitchen and rooms) in a way that wouldnt have been the case if 
that event wasnt taking place. 
I can also see the venue offered its own catering (as set out on a sample menu it sent Mr S). 
I appreciate he was going to use his own suppliers. But if he agreed costs with the venue on 
that basis I think its likely the amount charged would have reflected that. The venue would 
have wanted to recoup some of the money it lost because it wasnt arranging these services 
itself. 
And online information about the venues planning application from September 2021 says it 
had been holding events (including the use of a marquee) but that in future it would solely be 
used as holiday accommodation. That suggests the venue itself was drawing a distinction 
between the provision of accommodation and the organising of events such as a wedding. I 
think that also suggests there would have been additional costs included in the amount Mr S 
paid to reflect the additional service being provided. 
Nevertheless, if Mr S had been able to show £6,000 was the standard rate the venue would 
have charged regardless of whether an event was taking place or not. I think the cost could 
reasonably be apportioned to each night in thirds. Unfortunately Mr S hasnt been able to 
provide clear evidence in support of that. 
And the policy does say you must provide us with any information and assistance we may 
require about any claim. I appreciate it may be difficult for Mr S to provide more information 
on what the payment to the original venue included (I understand it has now been sold). But 
the question for me is whether RSA acted fairly in deciding, on the basis of the evidence it 
had, that no further payment should be made under the terms of his policy. For the reasons 
Ive explained I think it did. However, Id expect it to look again at the claim if Mr S is able to provide further information. 
I note there is correspondence with the venue (from August 2019) which refers to Mr S 
accepting an offer it had made. If that offer provides a breakdown of what the venue would 
be providing this could be relevant to Mr Ss claim. But in the absence of additional 
information I dont think theres further action RSA needs to take in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman