DRN-2495368
The complaint
Mr G complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc have handled his Buildings Insurance 
Claim.
All references to AXA also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 I can see Mr G spoke with someone from AXAs underwriting team in July 2020. AXA 
asked questions about historical subsidence and whether there had been structural issues 
within the last 10 years -. This information hadnt been recorded at the policys inception so it 
would possibly impact Mr Gs policy
 In early August AXA sent Mr G an email, explaining they were happy for his current 
claim to proceed on the basis there hadnt been any structural movement in the last 10 
years. I take this to mean the claim could now be considered under the remaining terms of 
the policy, not that the claim had been accepted
 AXA however had already told Mr G the claim had been declined, as the damage 
occurred before cover was put in place, when they wrote to him separately about this in July 
2020. But I can see why the wording of AXAs email, saying the claim could now proceed, 
would have caused confusion  and when Mr G asked for clarification about what would 
happen next, he didnt get a response
 But I can also see from the claim notes, it was confirmed to Mr G the claim was 
declined when he called AXA shortly after
 So while I appreciate why this would be frustrating to Mr G, I dont think the wording 
does say the claim was accepted. Mr G was told the claim had been declined shortly after, 
when he called. But, I do think AXA had an opportunity clarify things when Mr G responded 
to the email  but they didnt
 I think compensation for the inconvenience caused is due here. AXA accept the 
wording of the email from their underwriting team could have caused confusion and while the 
case has been with this service, they have offered Mr G £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Taking everything into account, I think this is a reasonable amount and it fairly reflects the 
inconvenience AXAs actions have caused. So I wont be asking AXA to make any further 
payment to Mr G
For these reasons I uphold this complaint and ask AXA to make the £100 compensation 
payment to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc and direct it 
to pay Mr G £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman