DRN-3369693
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited failed to identify subsidence at their 
property when they made a claim on an insurance policy with it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an insurance policy with Ageas for a property they owned and rented out. 
They had the policy up until March 2020 when they moved to a new insurer. 
In September 2019 theyd raised a claim for subsidence with Ageas after their tenant noticed 
cracks at the property. Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and they concluded 
the damage was due to the natural breakdown of materials rather than subsidence. So the 
claim was repudiated. 
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs S made a claim with their new insurer as more cracks had 
appeared. On investigation, the insurer confirmed the damage was caused by subsidence, 
however it said the problem had started before the inception of the policy so it would be the 
responsibility of the previous insurer  Ageas. 
It contacted Ageas who said under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) domestic 
subsidence agreement the new insurer should deal with the claim and then it would look to 
share the cost of the claim once its settled. 
However the two insurers couldnt reach an agreement so Mr and Mrs S made complaints to 
both and brought these to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint against Ageas be upheld. She said as the 
cracks were in the same area of the property as those investigated as part of the 2019 claim, 
its reasonable to conclude that they are linked. And the new insurers report confirmed the 
damage had been caused by subsidence. She therefore thought there was enough evidence 
to suggest that the subsidence hadnt been identified originally by Ageas and it was related 
to the original claim. 
She said Ageas should accept the claim and pay Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience it had caused by not identifying the subsidence earlier. 
She also thought Ageas should offer ongoing insurance cover, as it would have done if it had 
dealt with a subsidence claim in 2019. 
Ageas didnt agree. It said there was no evidence of subsidence when its loss adjuster 
investigated in 2019, so it didnt agree it was responsible for the whole claim. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint comes down to whether the subsidence that has now been 
confirmed by Mr and Mrs S new insurer, is related to the claim they made with Ageas in 
2019.
Ive looked at the reports provided by Ageas and the new insurers loss adjuster. I can see 
the damage that has now been identified as subsidence is in the same area as the problem 
inspected by Ageas in 2019  largely in the kitchen extension. 
The report provided by Ageas is very limited and just states that the cause is Natural 
breakdown of material but provides no detail about any investigations it carried out or how it 
reached this conclusion. 
Mr and Mrs S new insurers report is much more detailed, providing images and description 
of each area of cracking and comment on the possible cause of the subsidence.
Based on this, I think its most likely the subsidence that has now been identified was the 
cause of the original damage Mr and Mrs S claimed for in 2019. As it is in the same location 
and it appears Ageas didnt carry out a thorough investigation at the time into the cause. 
In fact, Id go as far to say that it seems highly unlikely that cracks identified in the same area 
would be un-subsidence related in 2019, but subsidence related in 2021. So I think it most 
likely that Ageas mis-diagnosed the problem initially. 
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that Ageas should accept full responsibility for 
the claim and settle it in line with the policy terms.
I note Ageas has said that it is only required to pay 50% of costs, and that the new insurer 
should manage the claim under the ABI agreement. However as Im persuaded that the 
subsidence relates to a claim that had previously been made against the Ageas policy, I 
think its fair and reasonable that this is dealt with as a continuation of that claim. And that it 
now accepts full responsibility for the claim, as it should have done previously.  
The fact that the problem wasnt identified in the first visit has caused Mr and Mrs S some 
distress and inconvenience. As theyve had to continue to receive reports from their tenant 
about the worsening condition of the property. And have had to raise a further claim which 
shouldnt have been necessary if it had been picked up originally. For that reason, I agree 
with our investigators recommendation that Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs S £300 
compensation. 
Finally, as Ageas will now be dealing with the subsidence claim its reasonable that it offers 
Mr and Mrs S ongoing subsidence insurance cover, as we would expect if it had originally 
accepted the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. I require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs S claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation.
Offer Mr and Mrs S ongoing subsidence insurance cover. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman