DRN-3035738
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc didnt inform him that he was being charged interest on 
his overdraft and that it stopped sending him paper copies of his statement even though he 
hadnt agreed to be paperless.
What happened
Mr S says that on a call with TSB about another product he became aware that he was 
being charged interest on his overdraft. He says he asked about the interest and the adviser 
wasnt able to tell him how much he was being charged. In a further call he still wasnt given 
the correct information about the interest and it wasnt until a third call took place that he was 
told the interest on the overdraft. 
Mr S says he wasnt told he was going to be charged interest on his overdraft and had 
thought he was paying a £7 account fee that covered the overdraft up to £2,000. Mr S says 
that had he been aware of the costs of the overdraft he wouldnt have used it as he had.
TSB says that Mr S account was registered for e-statements and e-correspondence and so 
any notification would be sent to Mr S email address advising him that there was new 
correspondence in his inbox. It wasnt able to show when Mr S opted for e-communication 
but said this was because it had likely happened a number of years prior. TSB said that 
notification emails included instructions as to how to access the information. It noted Mr S 
comments about not accessing his online inbox but said its system showed he had accessed 
the inbox on 6 August 2020 and 21 January 2021. It said Mr S monthly statements showed 
the relevant charges on his account and that it had sent Mr S a notification of the changes to 
the overdraft rates in January 2020. It noted the change in rate to 39.9% was originally due 
to start in April 2020 but was put back to July 2020.
Mr S didnt accept TSBs response and referred his complaint to this service. He said he 
didnt use the banking app and that on the two times TSB had identified him accessing the 
system he had made payments and thought there might have been a pop up that he 
dismissed. TSB said it didnt use pop ups and that Mr S would have needed to click into the 
inbox to see the items. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He thought that TSB had provided adequate 
notification of the changes to the overdraft charges and that Mr S should have been aware 
that he was signed up for paperless statements. In regard to the calls Mr S had with TSB he 
accepted it must have been frustrating for Mr S not to get the information he asked for about 
the cost of his overdraft but also noted the information had been provided to Mr S and was 
available on his statements. Therefore, he didnt think TSB was required to compensate 
Mr S for this issue.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that TSB hadnt shown that he had 
agreed to his account being paperless or proved that it had made him aware of the change 
in charges for his overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue that Mr S has raised is that he didnt receive notification of the changes to 
his overdraft charges. He has then also said that he hadnt signed up for paperless 
communication and that TSBs advisers werent able to tell him how much he was being 
charged.
There has been some confusion about whether or not Mr S was sent a letter by post about 
the change to his overdraft charges, however, even accepting this didnt happen, TSB has 
shown that he was sent an electronic notification and an email alerting him to this. The 
notification was sent out in January 2020 with the initial intended change taking place in April 
2020 (although I note this was delayed). In cases where customers are signed up to 
electronic communication I think that this would have provided reasonable notice of the 
change.
Mr S said that he wasnt aware he was being charged interest on his overdraft. I have looked 
at Mr S statements and can see the charges are clearly recorded. Before the changes 
notified in January 2020 were applied Mr S overdraft was subject to a monthly overdraft 
usage fee of £6 applied if the account went into the arranged overdraft (beyond the buffer) in 
the billing period and interest was charged on the usage. This then changed to the interest 
being charged at a higher amount. So, while I understand that Mr S hadnt realised he was 
paying interest as this information was clearly recorded on his statements I think he should 
have been reasonably aware of the charges.
The underlying issue in this case is that Mr S says he hadnt agreed to paperless 
communication. I can see he changed his preference back to paper in February 2021. 
However, before this he was registered on TSBs system for e-statements and e-
correspondence. TSB hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr S opted for this and 
Mr S has said he hadnt agreed to this option. Where the evidence is contradictory I make 
my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. In this case I think it 
more likely than not that Mr S did opt for electronic communication but as this could have 
happened a number of years ago (he opened the account in 2000) evidence of the change 
was no longer recorded. 
However, even if this wasnt the case, TSB has provided system notes showing that Mr S 
was sent letters in December 2017 and March 2018 reminding him to review his statements 
online. Had Mr S not been aware he was registered for paperless statements I think these 
letters would have alerted him to the issue and he could have resolved it at that stage. 
Therefore, on balance, I find it reasonable to accept that Mr S was aware he was registered 
for online statements and communication from December 2017 at the latest. 
As I find it more likely than not that Mr S was aware he was receiving communication from 
TSB online I find it reasonable that he would check his banking inbox. He was sent emails 
saying when there were new communications and I find it was his responsibility to access 
the information or contact TSB to ask for it to be sent in a different form. As the notice of 
variation was sent to Mr S I find in this case that TSB provided Mr S with reasonable notice 
of the change in the charges for his overdraft.
Mr S has said he wasnt provided with the service he should have been on calls he had with 
TSB. He has said on the first call when he became aware that there was an interest charge 
on his overdraft the staff member couldnt say how much he was being charged. He then 
had a further call on which a number of 19% was suggested and it wasnt until the third call 
he was told the correct amount. I can understand how frustrating this must have been. Copies of these calls arent available, but I have listened to the subsequent calls with TSB 
on which Mr S has explained the situation. I agree that this wasnt the service Mr S should 
have been provided with, but I also note that the information Mr S was asking for was 
available on his statements and had been sent to him in the notice of variation. Therefore, 
while I agree TSB should have provided better service, I do not think that this meant the 
information Mr S wanted wasnt available to him and so in this case I do not think 
compensation is required.
Overall, while I can understand why Mr S was upset when he discovered he was paying 
more for his overdraft than he had expected, I do not find in this case that I can say TSB did 
anything wrong in its notification of this change. I note there were times when TSB could 
have provided better service, but I do not find that these issues are such that compensation 
is required. Because of this, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman