DRN-2419603
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) repaired his sofa with a different 
fabric and then declined his claim for the mismatch.
What happened
Mr W had a furniture protection plan with Amtrust to cover his sofa against accidental 
damage. He made a claim under the policy after the fabric on one arm was torn during a 
house move. Amtrust accepted the claim and Mr W accepted the offer of repair. Amtrust 
replaced the fabric on the arm of the sofa with the closest available match.
More than two years later, Mr W complained to Amtrust that the fabric didnt match. While 
Amtrust agreed, it said the fabric was a close match at the time of repair and it couldnt be 
held responsible for the loss of match due to wear and tear.
Our investigator didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong. She thought the fabric was a 
good match two years earlier and Mr W signed to say that he was happy with the repair. The 
difference became apparent over time, caused by the fabric wearing differently to the 
original, and Mr Ws policy doesnt cover wear and tear. Our investigator thought Amtrust 
repaired the sofa in line with the terms of the policy and didnt think it needed to do any 
more.
Mr W didnt agree. He said its a completely different fabric and needs to be inspected to 
appreciate the difference. He also said the retailer can provide an exact match, but he 
doesnt think he should have to pay for it. Mr W would like Amtrust to replace the fabric again 
with a closer match.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I realise hell be disappointed with my decision, 
but Ill explain my reasons here.
To begin with, Id like to reassure Mr W that his claim that the fabric doesnt match isnt 
disputed. I know hed like a visit so I can see the difference, but Im satisfied that doing so 
wouldnt change the outcome. Thats because Im accepting that the fabric doesnt match. 
The issue is not about whether the fabric matches now: its about whether the fabric 
provided a reasonable match when Amtrust first carried out the repair, and in line with the 
policy.
Mr W accepted Amtrusts offer to repair the sofa. In its offer, Amtrust confirmed the following:
as these parts are made to order we are unable to guarantee an exact match of colour, 
pattern or grain which may be an issue if your furniture is well worn or has faded significantly 
since new. We will do all we can to get as close a match as possible however putting a new 
part on an older item of furniture may highlight differences between them.
So, when Mr W accepted the repair rather than the cash settlement, Im satisfied that he 
wouldve been aware that the match might not be exact.
Amtrusts technician inspected the sofa when Mr W complained about the difference 
between the fabrics. Amtrust explained that in areas of low wear, the fabric still provided a 
good match to the original. However, it accepted that the replacement fabric had worn 
differently. Mr W didnt report the difference until he noticed it two years after the repair. So, I 
think its fair to assume the match was good to begin with. I understand Mr W was 
experiencing some difficulties around then, but I think that if the fabric was noticeably 
different, its likely he wouldve reported it sooner. 
I also note that Mr W thinks the technician shouldve asked him to approve the fabric match 
before completing the repair. I can see why he might think that, but I cant reasonably say 
that such an offer wouldve made a difference. Thats because he didnt complain about the 
fabric until two years later, suggesting it was a good match at the time. On balance, the 
evidence persuades me that the repair was likely to have been a reasonable match at the 
time it was completed.
The issue now is whether Amtrust has a responsibility to complete a further repair. Amtrust 
declined Mr Ws claim under the plan, so Ive looked at whether its decision was in line with 
the policy. The policy states:
Your product is not covered for:
2. colour loss, fading and any natural characteristic to the covering of the item including 
splitting, cracking, scars, knots, bobbles or shading;
And, 
5. b. we do not guarantee an exact match of grain, sheen or pattern in repairing or 
replacing your product. An exact colour match cannot be guaranteed, replacement parts will 
be matched to an inconspicuous area of the item. In such circumstances liability is limited to 
the best endeavours of [our] approved technician.
I realise that Mr W isnt claiming for general wear and tear  his claim is limited to the fabric 
which Amtrust replaced. But Mr W hasnt provided anything to suggest that the fabric was 
faulty or a poor match when it was first replaced. A few years on, its reasonable to say that 
all the fabric has experienced some wear and tear, and if Amtrust replaced it now, even with 
an exact match to the original fabric, its likely the repair would stand out simply because its 
newer fabric. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Amtrust completed a reasonable repair when Mr W first reported 
the damage to his sofa, and I think it declined his subsequent claim fairly for reasons of 
natural ageing.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman