DRN-2500806
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs Ts complaint is about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling of their 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Whilst on holiday, Mrs T had an accident and was admitted to hospital. The hospital 
asked UKI for a guarantee of payment as Mrs T needed urgent surgery. UKI didnt 
process the claim when it was received, and so the surgery couldnt go ahead as 
planned. Mr P and Mrs T paid for the surgery themselves the following day, as they still 
hadnt received authorisation from UKI.
Mr P and Mrs T complained to UKI about this, and its handling of the claim. UKI accepted 
there had been errors, and offered total compensation of £400. Unhappy with this, Mr P 
and Mrs T brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 December 2020. Heres what I said:
Im aware that Mr P and Mrs T requested to speak with the ombudsman reviewing their 
complaint. However, after looking at their file, I didnt think this was necessary. I can assure 
Mr P and Mrs T that Ive carefully considered the evidence submitted, though they can of 
course provide any further comments they wish to make in response to this decision.
Mr P and Mrs T say that because UKI issued two final response letters, they would like 
the matters addressed in those responses to be dealt with separately. They say theyre 
happy with the compensation offered by UKI under one of the final responses, and so 
dont want the issues addressed in that response to be taken into account. However, 
since both final responses addressed Mr P and Mrs Ts concerns about the same claim, 
I think it would be appropriate for me to consider the whole claim, including the total 
amount of compensation offered.
Mr P and Mrs T say the surgery was initially arranged for 29 January at 8pm (local time). 
However, I see that UKI only received notification of the claim at 10.43pm on 29 
January. It therefore wasnt UKIs fault that Mrs T didnt have the surgery at 8pm on 29 
January as initially planned.
Mr P and Mrs T say the next opportunity for surgery was on 30 January at 8am. UKI 
had received notification of the claim by that point, and had plenty of time in which to 
grant authorisation. UKI accepts that it failed to process the claim when it was 
received. That meant Mrs T couldnt have the surgery at 8am on 30 January.
Around 4pm on 30 January Mr P and Mrs T were told by the hospital that Mrs T could 
have the surgery at 8pm, but they would need to pay for it in advance. As UKI still hadnt 
provided authorisation (as it had only just started processing the claim), Mr P and Mrs T 
paid for the surgery. The following morning, Mrs T was discharged from hospital and they 
were able to continue their holiday.
I can understand why Mr P and Mrs T paid for the surgery themselves. There was no 
indication from UKI that authorisation would be granted before 8pm on 30 January when 
the surgery could next take place. If they hadnt paid for the surgery themselves, Mrs T 
would have likely needed to wait a further night before having the surgery, when she was 
in a lot of pain.
As the surgery was a significant amount, Mr P and Mrs T had to use the funds theyd 
planned to spend whilst on holiday, as well as the maximum available on their credit 
card. I understand Mr Ps credit card provider gave a temporary extension to the limit on 
his credit card, so that he and Mrs T had some funds for the remainder of their holiday. 
Though this was not as much as theyd intended to spend, and they were 
understandably reluctant to use this given that it was all on credit. This impacted their 
enjoyment of the remainder of their holiday.
It therefore seems to me that UKIs error meant that Mrs Ts surgery was delayed by 
12 hours. Given that Mrs T was apparently in a lot of pain, I think UKI ought to pay 
compensation to recognise this. The compensation should also take into account that 
because Mr P and Mrs T used all their available funds to pay for the surgery, this 
caused them unnecessary worry and upset for the remainder of their holiday.
UKI made other errors too. It didnt keep Mr P updated with the progress of the claim as it 
should have, and didnt call him back when it said it would. UKI also mistakenly advised Mr 
P that he would receive a full settlement, but later clarified that only part of the settlement 
was payable until it received further information.
UKI offered Mr P and Mrs T total compensation of £400 for the errors it made. Based on 
the impact of UKIs errors to Mr P and Mrs T (as explained above), I think this should be 
increased to £650.
Mr P and Mrs T are unhappy that UKI asked them for a number of documents in order to 
pay the claim. Like the investigator, I think UKI was entitled to do so. The information it 
requested was in line with what Id expect an insurer to request when dealing with a claim 
such as this. After it had received the necessary information, it paid the claim in full.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments before I reached a final 
decision, 
Mr P and Mrs T responded to say they accepted my provisional findings regarding the 
medical emergency. However, they say that they did provide all the necessary information 
for the claim to be paid up-front, and therefore it was unnecessary for UKI to continue to ask 
for documents already in its possession. They say the only further evidence provided was in 
respect of a hospital invoice, and then the claim was paid. 
UKI responded to say it had registered two separate complaints, and agrees with Mr P and 
Mrs T that this service should review both complaints individually. It also said Mr P and Mrs 
T requested a days holiday reimbursement and expressed some service-related concerns, 
but I didnt address these points in my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional information Mr P and Mrs T provided to support their claim was an invoice 
with a full breakdown of the charges. That is what Id expect an insurer to want to see before paying a claim, and so I dont think UKI acted unreasonably by requesting this before paying 
the claim. 
UKI says it thinks this service ought to have looked at Mr P and Mrs Ts complaints 
separately as two final responses were issued. I disagree, and for the same reason that I 
explained in my provisional decision. 
Mr P and Mrs T wanted UKI to pay an amount equivalent to the cost of a day of their holiday, 
to recognise the delay in Mrs T having the surgery. The investigator stated in their view that 
the policy doesnt allow for this, which was correct. Though that doesnt mean that UKI 
shouldnt pay compensation to recognise the delay. Ive explained in my provisional decision 
that I thought appropriate compensation in total would be £650.
Mr P and Mrs T did complain about a number of service issues, which I took into account 
when deciding upon appropriate compensation. It wasnt necessary for me to set out each 
issue. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr P 
and Mrs T £650 compensation (less any amount already paid in this respect).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman