DRN-2749930
The complaint
 Ms L, who is represented by Mr W, complains that PSA Finance UK Limited refused to let 
her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In August 2018 Ms L acquired a new car costing £17,730 funded by a deposit of £4,000 and 
the balance by a finance agreement. Mr W says the car had issues from day one and these 
continue. 
Mr W says the car was booked in for repair but says that after its returns those faults 
remained. In the time frame he submitted to this service he doesnt detail the actual faults. 
The complaint form refers to repeated and different faults. 
The business has provided more detail. It says the apparently had damage on delivery which 
was repaired. It adds that a dealer saw the car in August 2018 and it repaired door seals. It 
was seen by another dealer in April 2019 and it says that it:
 diagnosed the vehicle under the summary given by the customer.
They advised the vehicle lost power and would not accelerate at times, they cleaned the 
valves and replaced the oil filters.
Another issue was with the DAB radio not working with the mobile, additionally the customer 
noted they can see the registration plate in the camera and may need adjusting. They 
installed a software update and looked at the camera, to align.
All work not charged to the customer as it was just an update and the oil filters were 
replaced under TSB.
Nothing else noted about the camera from the dealership and nothing else noted on the 
invoices.
It seems the car was seen again on 10 May when the screen wash, pollen filter and a 
washer were changed at a cost of £48.37.
The car was seen in June 2019 with a reported power loss, but the dealer says no fault 
could be found. 
Mr W says the car was in an accident in July 2019 and Ms L wished to use the safety 
functionality of the vehicle, but discovered it was faulty. PSA say that Ms L wished to 
download footage form the dashcam and this couldnt be done. Mr W says that this is a fault 
that cannot be repaired despite the dealers efforts. 
PSA rejected Ms Ls complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. Our 
investigator initially recommended the complaint be rejected. He noted Mr W had said that 
there had been other undocumented visits to dealer and that the power and acceleration 
issues were ongoing. However, he also noted there was no evidence to show there was a 
fault with the car. He also noted that PSA had said that the car had not been serviced 
despite being due on the first anniversary or after 16,000 miles whichever came first.
Mr W didnt agree and the investigator suggested he obtain an independent report to identify 
if the faults were present at the point of sale. This was complicated by the pandemic, but Mr 
W submitted a diagnostic from a new dealer which showed there were recorded faults stored 
in the cars ECU. There were four intermittent faults and one current fault.
The original investigator had moved on and the case had been taken over by another one. 
He recommended that complaint be upheld on the basis of this report. PSA didnt agree and 
having identified the dealer which had done the work carried out its own investigations.
It had been in contact with the repairer which had repaired the car after an accident, 
replacing the bumper and a wing. It said that as part of their standard procedure, a pre-repair 
diagnostic was run on the vehicle. Once the necessary repairs had been carried out, a post-
repair diagnostic was then run.
It says the diagnostic brought up several phantom fault codes which they were unable to 
clear from the system - its not unusual for these to appear when a vehicle has been 
disassembled for repair. The vehicle was therefore referred to the service department which 
cleared down the codes, enabling the Accident Repair Centre to confirm to the customers 
insurance company that all repairs had been carried out and all faults cleared.
It went on to say that the repairer has confirmed that the diagnostic report does not relate to 
the satisfactory quality dispute raised by the customer and does not constitute evidence that 
the vehicle was faulty at the point of sale.
As PSA do not accept the investigators recommendations the matter was been referred to 
me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Firstly, I made clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual 
complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of the industry 
regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or to punish 
them. 
Mr W had raised a wide number of issues including the role of the FCA, the impact of Brexit 
and claims of fraud, but I explained my role is limited to deciding if the car was fit for purpose 
at the point of sale and if it wasnt what redress is merited. I trusted therefore he would 
understand that it would be wrong for me to stray beyond that remit in this decision. 
I said that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
PSA is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I noted a great deal of information had been supplied and much of it did not have any direct 
bearing on the complaint. Regrettably, that had made it difficult to establish the simple facts 
of what went wrong, when and what was done to fix it.  I endeavoured to set out the facts as 
they have been reported and if I had missed any relevant details, I said I would be happy to 
address those in due course.
There was problem with the car on delivery to Ms L and I gathered whatever fault was 
identified was dealt with by the dealer and Ms L took the car away. I had seen no evidence 
to show that this initial problem reoccurred. 
The next issue was to do with the door seals which were repaired by the dealer. Again, I said 
I had seen nothing to show that this repair failed. 
It seemed that the fault which is allegedly the ongoing one is the loss of power and this was 
reported to a dealer in April 2019 which is past the six-month period in which the merchant is 
required to demonstrate it wasnt present at the point of sale. I said I needed to be satisfied 
that this fault was inherent. Both our investigators suggested Mr W obtain an independent 
report. In due course he submitted a diagnostic report which showed five ECU stored faults. 
Our investigator accepted that this was sufficient to allow him to recommend rejection.
However, PSA put that diagnostic into context and has told us that the garage which carried 
out the repairs to the bodywork had confirmed that it does not show the faults were inherent.
I found this persuasive and I didnt consider I could regard the report as demonstrating the 
car wasnt for purpose at the point of sale. As such I didnt believe Mr W had shown that the 
car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I was also aware of what Mr W has described as the safety functionality issue, which I 
presumed to be the problem with downloading data from the dashcam. I have seen no 
supporting evidence concerning this issue, but I said I would consider any relevant material 
that was supplied. 
It had been suggested that Ms Ls use of the car had been curtailed due to the ongoing 
problems but I note that diagnostic reported dated 25 August 2020 showed the car had 
covered 40,462 kms. I assumed that this was not an error and it referred to kilometres rather 
than miles which means it has covered over 25,000 miles in some two years.
Having considered all the evidence and I could see no reason for me to require PSA to allow 
Ms L to reject the car. 
Mr W didnt agree and queried the facts as reported in my provisional decision. He said that 
the car had been serviced and he submitted a copy of a repair order dated 18 April 2019. He 
also asked that the phantom codes be explained. He suggested the dealership had deleted 
these codes and had charged the insurance company for doing so and this may mean they 
had committed a fraud. He thought the codes had reappeared due to the continued faults.
He suggested that PSA should pay for an independent inspection. He also suggested that 
PSA had been acing fraudulently and had deleted the codes to avoid detection. He added that this service should report it to the FSA. He also provided a photo of a diagnostic 
machine showing several error codes dated 2 January 2021. 
I issued a second provisional decision as follows:
I appreciated Mr Ws disappointment with my provisional decision, but as I pointed out I 
would be happy to address any additional information or clarification he provided before I 
issued a final decision. Although he disputed some of the background information set out in 
my initial provisional decision, I was not been persuaded that my summary was inaccurate. 
However, I didnt consider it necessary to comment any further. 
I said I would like to reassure Mr W that I had read and considered the whole file, including 
the material which has no direct bearing on the complaint, but I would concentrate my 
comments on what I thought was relevant. I explained that if I didnt comment on any 
specific point raised by Mr W or PSA, it wasnt because Ive failed to take it on board, but 
because I didnt think I needed to comment on it in order to reach what I thought was the 
right outcome. 
The key issue for me to determine was whether the car was fit for purpose at the point of 
sale. In matters such as this I noted it was beneficial to have an independent inspection 
which looks into the faults and their causes and which would give an expert opinion as to 
whether the faults were likely to have been present at the point of sale. Diagnostic tests do 
not of themselves answer those key questions. They simply show that a fault is recorded, 
but nothing about the cause or if that fault was present at the point of sale. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr W sent me a photo of the screen of diagnostic 
tool. That of itself is of limited value, but subsequently at my request he supplied additional 
information so we could seek more detail from the garage which had carried out the test. 
I asked PSA for its response and it said it had asked for a comment from the manufacturers 
technical team. This has not been received and I said I had no desire to delay matters 
further. However, PSA noted the diagnostic didnt report that any issues need to be fixed. It 
said that it had been given no notice and it hadnt agreed that the parties would be bound by 
it.
I was faced with a lack of detail and little clarity as to the faults and their likely origins with 
conflicting opinions given by way of explanation. 
However, there was one issue which I believed had now been clarified. Mr W was concerned 
that PSA had suggested the car had not been serviced and that this had been accepted by 
this service. I can see that the 16,000 mile service the repair order document submitted by 
Mr W to this service in April 2020 made no reference to a service. However, he recently 
submitted another copy of this document containing several manuscript amendments. These 
include the annotation 16 K service and no service book. 
I presumed the original document was the one given to Ms L when the car was delivered to 
the garage and the second was the one after the work had been carried out. The former 
document and the lack of a service book may have contributed to the confusion, but I 
believed this area of uncertainty has now been clarified.
Although there have been a number of other issues, I believed the key fault which has 
continued throughout the ownership of the car has been the lack of power and sluggishness 
of the engine. That is what was reported to the garage on 18 April 2019 and Mr W told this 
service in March 2020 that it remined unresolved.The diagnostic provided by the garage which repaired the after it had been in an accident 
showed four intermittent faults. These were:
No communication with telematic ECU
Absence of brightness with the rain/brightness sensor
Fault in the unlocking of the immobiliser by the engine management ECU
Fault in the status of the of the seat belt fastening information for determining the 
presence of the driver.
The one other issue which was recorded as present was an oil level fault.
As noted above PSA say that this data arose as a result of the car undergoing repairs to the 
damage caused by the accident and it doesnt show an accurate reflection of the state of the 
car.
The recent diagnostic records the following:
System Overview
Central Electronics - 1 error
Parking aid 2: Parking distance control - 5 errors
Driver assistance system 1: Driver assistance systems Front driver assistance 
camera  1 error.
Diagnosis
Central Electronics 2 / Central Electronics CE 7.0 Error Memory
Immobilizer release signal. No communication
Video camera view area Faulty
The only apparent overlap is with the ECU/Central Electronics. The accompanying note from 
the garage states:
P0361 KNOCKK SENSOR SUPER KNOCK  KNOCK FROM ENGINE POSSIBLE SPARK 
PLUG ISSUE OR COIL PACK FAILING FROM COLD. It recommends that the fault can be 
fixed with a sensor at a cost of £81.60. That would imply that the issue is minor one, but we 
sought more information.
I explained that our investigator spoke to the mechanic who carried out the diagnostic to 
better understand his very brief report. He confirmed the noise was very severe and was due 
to a misfire on the engine. He said there were multiple factors that could affect this such as 
injectors or lack of air and he said that he thought that this was likely to have been there 
since point of sale.
Although this diagnostic test is not definitive and we do not have an independent report I 
believe it tips the balance in terms of evidence as to the state of the car. My decision was 
finely balanced, but I concluded that the ongoing issue with a lack of power was most likely 
to have been either present at the point of sale or inherent. I said that would lead to the conclusion that the car wasnt fit for purpose and Ms L should be allowed to reject it.
I asked Mr W for the cars current mileage and he confirmed it was 31,230 which means it 
has covered approximately 12,500 miles a year. Ms Ls agreement allowed for an annual 
mileage of 20,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W accepted my second provisional decision on behalf of Ms L. PSA said the 
manufacturer couldnt comment on the findings of a third party as it wasnt supported or 
endorsed by the manufacturer. It went on to say that the car was still under warranty and if 
there was any fault it could be addressed by an authorised dealer.
As I explained in my second provisional decision this is a finely balanced decision and I have 
some sympathy with the arguments put forward by PSA.  However, the independent report, 
although not conclusive, tips the balance of evidence in favour of this complaint being 
upheld. There appears to have been an ongoing issue which remains and the car has been 
seen by an authorised dealer and the issue remains. That leads me to conclude that Ms L 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Ms L should be allowed to reject the car 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
End the hire purchase agreement with no further liability for Ms L and ensure her 
credit file is updated to show the agreement as settled or remove the record from her 
credit file
Refund Ms Ls deposit and pay 8% annual simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
Collect the car from Ms L at no cost to her
Ms L has been able to use the car and it is right that she pays for that use. However, 
I note that her agreement allowed for an annual mileage of 20,000. On that basis I 
consider PSA should refund a sum equivalent to a third of the monthly payments she 
has made. 
Pay Ms L £200 for the trouble and upset suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman