DRN-2185869
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) relates to their 
decision to increase her minimum monthly payments and the service she received when 
making subsequent enquiries about that decision.
What happened
In September 2019 AESEL wrote to Mrs B explaining that they were making changes to her 
account and that she would be required to pay an increased monthly minimum payment in 
order to reduce the amount she owed. In the event she didnt wish to do that, AESEL gave 
her the option of cancelling her account and repaying the outstanding balance. Mrs B rang 
AESEL to speak to them about this and she was promised a call back which did not 
materialise.  
Mrs B then continued to make her normal monthly payments which were lower than the 
increased figure AESEL had stated. In November Mrs B called AESEL once more and on 
this occasion asked if the interest rate could be reduced, which AESEL said not. 
Mrs B made another call to AESEL in November and discussed with the agent the issue of 
her account being overdue and said that in an earlier call an agent had told her the account 
would be returned to its previous status. AESEL said they had no record of such an 
agreement.
AESEL upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part since they accepted they ought to have called Mrs 
B as they had promised. Further they acknowledged that if theyd done that the subsequent 
registration of a missed payment marker to her credit file, and a late payment fee, could 
have been avoided. AESEL removed the late payment marker, refunded the fee and paid 
Mrs B £100 in compensation for the poor service.
Mrs B was unhappy with AESELs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that AESEL had dealt with the 
complaint fairly and that the amount of compensation AESEL had paid was enough to put 
things right. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that AESEL wrote to Mrs B to notify her that there was to be a 
change to her minimum payment. It was that correspondence which prompted Mrs B to call 
AESEL. AESEL failed to call Mrs B back to discuss the minimum payment increase as 
promised, and because of that Mrs B worked on basis that the increased minimum payment 
was not applicable. Unknown to Mrs B a late payment marker was reported to her credit file 
which was later removed.
I know Mrs B said that AESEL had agreed that the increased minimum payment would not 
be applied, but that is not accepted by AESEL. Whilst there is no call recording available of 
that call, I have been able to look at the call notes and they dont support Mrs Bs 
recollection. I think that had such an agreement been reached it would more likely than not 
have been recorded as that is a material factor.
AESEL have taken steps to put Mrs B back in to the position she would have been in but for 
their failure to call her back. They have refunded the £12 late payment charge and removed 
the late payment marker and paid £100 for the inconvenience and distress caused for that, 
and for not returning the call. 
I know Mrs B doesnt think this was enough to put matters right, so Ive given this some 
further thought and I think what AESEL paid is in fact fair and reasonable. Naturally had the 
late payment markers remained on her credit files that would have negatively impacted her, 
but as they have been removed the impact has been minimal. And, financially she has 
sustained no loss since the late payment fees were refunded. 
Mrs B has also complained of the service she received from various agents she spoke with. 
She has described being met with a dismissive attitude, arrogance and utter incompetence. I 
have asked for those call recordings but AESEL have said they cannot locate them, and it is 
very unlikely they are still in existence because they generally only keep call recordings for 
around six months. So, I am unable to say how the agents Mrs B spoke to conducted 
themselves or what their tone, demeanour or conduct was like. I do however think Mrs B has 
a point regarding incompetence to the extent that the promised call was not made.
I have noted that following Mrs Bs complaint to AESEL she has raised further service issues 
surrounding her not receiving statements, but as this doesnt form part of her original 
complaint the rules which govern our service say I cant look at this aspect, since it will have 
to form the basis of a fresh complaint so that AESEL can be given the opportunity of 
investigating and responding to it.
So, although Mrs B will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst AESEL have 
indeed made an error in failing to make a return call, I cant say AESEL has subsequently 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited has already paid Mrs B £100 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require 
it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman