DRN-4247359
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of D that HSBC UK Bank Plc took too long to re-debit an amount 
from Ds account after a chargeback attempt failed. 
What happened
Mr G raised a chargeback dispute for D in respect of a transaction on a commercial credit 
card. He says that the amount was taken from the card in respect of a scam.
HSBC temporarily credited Ds credit card account while it raised a chargeback for D. 
However, the chargeback was unsuccessful so it took the funds back. 
Mr G says that HSBC took around 18 months to take the money back again. Mr G raised a 
complaint on behalf of D which this service has looked into.
Our investigator noted that HSBC was entitled to take the money back as D had lost the 
chargeback. In the circumstances, he considered HSBCs offer of £50 compensation for the 
delay to be fair and reasonable.
Mr G says he doesnt think the compensation is enough. He says HSBC has already 
charged almost that much in interest while investigating. He says he is unhappy with how 
HSBC has handled the scam he asked it to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence on this case  however, I wont necessarily be commenting 
on everything. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our 
service in resolving disputes.
I know Mr G feels very strongly about not getting Ds money back through raising a 
chargeback with HSBC  he has mentioned it in respect of this complaint. I note a decision 
has been issued to say why this service is unable to look at HSBCs failure to reimburse D 
money Mr G says it lost to a scam. So I wont be commenting on the wider chargeback 
outcome here. 
I dont think HSBC made a mistake in taking the money back. This is because the 
chargeback was unsuccessful. However, there is no doubt that HSBC made an error in 
delaying the debit of the temporary credit. However, in assessing the impact on D I note that:
Because D is the eligible complainant here I am not able to make an award to it for 
the impact on Mr G personally (including distress and inconvenience caused to him) 
 I can only reflect the inconvenience caused to D in its capacity as a Limited 
Company;
Mr G has not provided persuasive evidence that as a result of the error D has ended 
up in a financially worse off position than it would have been in had the funds been 
debited sooner; and
D would have had to pay interest on the funds in any event (if the card balance was 
not cleared) and by not paying interest on the amount for the period of delay there is 
an argument that the error has indirectly saved it money.
HSBC has made a modest offer of compensation of £50. I appreciate that the delay would 
have caused D a degree of inconvenience. However, in the circumstances I dont consider 
HSBC should fairly be required to pay more. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that HSBC has not paid D the offer of compensation yet  if it has not 
then it should do so if Mr G accepts my decision on behalf of D.
My final decision
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay D the £50 compensation it has offered for its delay in 
taking the funds back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman