DRN-2369444
The complaint
Ms M complains about the refund Covea Insurance plc offered her on her motor insurance 
policy during the national lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Ms M holds a motor insurance policy with Covea. Her policy covered her to drive 8,000 miles 
each year and use the car for social, domestic, pleasure and commuting.
During the coronavirus pandemic, Ms M asked Covea if they could offer her a refund of 
some of her premium because she was no longer using the car for work as she was working 
from home in line with the Governments guidelines. She said shed seen other insurers 
offering refunds of £25.
Covea looked into this and said it could reduce Ms Ms annual mileage to 6,000 miles per 
year, and it could remove the cover for commuting. It said this generated a £5.78 refund. It 
also offered to waive the administration charge to make these changes to Ms Ms policy.
Ms M didnt take this option and complained to Covea. When they didnt change their mind, 
she complained to us.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Covea had acted sympathetically toward Ms Ms position by offering to make changes to the 
policy free of charge. And he thought the refund it had offered, although small, was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The coronavirus pandemic has affected most of the countrys lives, both businesses and 
consumers alike. Following this, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to 
insurers to ensure they were treating their customers fairly. But this guidance didnt say 
insurers should offer refunds to customers whose cars were still insured. 
This means there is no official guidance which suggests Covea treated Mrs M unfairly by not 
offering her a bigger refund. And I dont think it was obliged to do so, even though she was 
driving her car less. This is because it was still insured and she could have driven it and 
ended up making a claim. And there was always the potential for a large claim because of 
the fact the policy covered Mrs Ms liability to third party road users and pedestrians. 
I can see Covea offered to reduce the annual mileage on the policy and remove the cover 
for commuting as it was no longer needed by Ms M. Covea also said it wouldnt charge the 
amendment fee it would normally charge to make these changes. Although the resulting 
refund was small, Ive seen the relevant parts of Coveas system which shows the changes 
made and the refund of £5.78 this generated. So Im satisfied the refund was appropriate 
and I think this is as far as Covea needed to go in the circumstances. 
I understand why Ms M is unhappy as other insurers were offering higher refunds and some 
of these were made simply as a gesture of goodwill. But, Im only able to look at how Covea 
has treated Mrs M. And while disappointing for her, Covea were not under an obligation to 
offer a refund as a gesture of goodwill.
I understand Ms M ultimately didnt take the refund, but should she still want to go ahead 
with it, she should contact Covea to arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman