DRN-2977296
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs E took out in 2003 with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. She complains that Aviva levied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when she sold her house and redeemed the mortgage. The complaint has 
been brought by Mr E; hes also said the interest rate is too high.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs E took the mortgage out in 2003. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last 
surviving borrower goes into full-time residential nursing care or after their death. It can be 
repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is usually 
payable. 
Interest on the loan is charged (at a rate thats fixed for the life of the mortgage) and rolled 
up into the outstanding balance and then compounded until the debt is repaid. All of this 
means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance to be 
repaid. 
Mrs E has now sold her house, repaid the mortgage and moved into what is described on 
the complaint form as assisted living housing. Aviva levied an ERC on redemption of the 
mortgage. When Mr E raised this with Aviva on Mrs Es behalf, Aviva wasnt persuaded it 
should waive the ERC. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr E 
asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt Mrs E circumstances are difficult, but what I have to decide is whether Aviva 
has treated her fairly. The starting point is the terms of the mortgage agreement; Mrs E 
agreed to be bound by them when she took out the equity release loan in 2003. 
The interest rate
Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is 
fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. The rate charged is 7.55% fixed for the 
duration of the mortgage. The use of fixed rather than variable rates have always been 
normal on equity release mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in 
the debt over time as the interest rolls up. 
Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when deciding how 
much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their debt will 
grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage offer, as it was 
in this case. 
Yes, 7.55 % sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 2003, when the 
financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the first decade of the 
21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were already low and more 
likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed in late 2007/early 2008, 
when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows from which theyve still 
not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 2003.
The ERC
The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
either because the borrower had died or required to move into full-time residential care. Ive 
used the word required because the agreement specifies in some detail how Aviva will 
assess whether such a move has happened by necessity rather than desire.
In a situation such as this, Aviva might typically request information from a borrowers doctor. 
The information it asks for is in a prescribed form (and includes an assessment of mental 
capacity) consistent with the assessment criteria specified in the mortgage agreement, and 
must be provided by a suitably-qualified medical professional.
Here, Aviva didnt do that. When we asked why that was, it told us that during a phone 
conversation with Mr E, enough information was gathered to make it self-evident without a 
further, medical, assessment that the changes to Mrs Es living circumstances wouldnt 
qualify her for the ERC to be waived. Ive listened to a recording of that conversation and I 
am satisfied Aviva made a fair judgement based on the answers Mr E provided to the 
questions asked of him. 
For Aviva to waive the ERC, the move that prompted Mrs E to sell and redeem the mortgage 
would have had to be driven by need rather than want. Thats the case even where the 
impetus for the move came from Mrs E initially. I understand and appreciate Mrs E found 
Avivas levying of an ERC unwelcome; but for the reasons Ive set out, it wasnt unfair, and 
thats the test I have to apply.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman