DRN-1686039
The complaint
Mr P complains about delays and poor claim handling by National House-Building Council. 
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what has happened, rather than a detailed timeline 
with all issues listed.
Mr P bought a new build property that was sold with a 10-year NHBC Buildmark warranty. 
Mr P said, among other things, the waste pipe to the sink in the bathroom wasnt connected 
properly which caused waste water to leak into the bathroom and down the walls into the 
room below causing damage.  He also noticed several issues with the fitment of the doors 
and windows in the house and the heating and thermostats not working correctly. As Mr P 
noticed the issues within the first two years of the policy, he raised them with the builder for it 
to rectify. 
The builder completed some repairs but, others had not moved forward at all, or to Mr Ps 
satisfaction. In November 2018, Mr P approached NHBC to see if it would assist him to 
resolve the issues with the builder. 
NHBC completed a resolution report in February 2019 and gave the builder until 
11 April 2019 to resolve all of the issues. The builder was unable to rectify all of the issues 
by this date but said it was working with Mr P to find a solution.  NHBC then gave the builder 
two further deadlines, 30 May 2019 and 31 July 2019 to put matters right before it said it 
would take over the builders obligations, as set out in the Buildmark policy. 
Between these dates there was a significant amount a correspondence between all of the 
parties involved, numerous meetings and attempts made at some of the repairs. However, at 
the end of July many issues remained outstanding so NHBC took over the builders 
obligations and it instructed its surveyor to put together a schedule of works to capture all of 
the outstanding issues.
In September 2019 NHBC let Mr P know it had taken over the claim from the builder and 
sent him a schedule of works with associated costs. Mr P complained about how long things 
had taken and the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. He said hed previously 
been told on two occasions that senior managers would return his calls, but this did not 
happen. Hed also previously asked for the case handler to be changed as he didnt feel the 
claim was being managed well. Mr P was also unhappy with the schedule of works and 
disputed this further with NHBC.  
NHBC looked at Mr Ps complaint. It explained in the first two years of the Buildmark policy it 
is the builders responsibility to rectify issues with the property. Its resolution service is 
designed to help resolve issues between a homeowner and builder. It overtook the builders 
obligations as it had not met the deadline set to rectify the outstanding issues. 
NHBC said that it considered Mr Ps request for the case handler to be changed but let him 
know it didnt feel that was an appropriate course of action to take, and any change in case 
handler could cause further delays.  However, it apologised for the fact calls werent returned 
to Mr P and offered him £650 compensation to recognise the delays and poor service hed 
received. 
Our investigator looked at the case. He explained our service only had power to consider 
issues that happened after 11 April 2019 - the first deadline that was given to the builder on 
the resolution report. Our investigator said that he thought NHBC should have taken over the 
claim from the builder at an earlier point, in May 2019 after the first extension of time passed. 
And, because it didnt do that, he thought NHBC had caused the claim to be delayed. 
However, he thought the amount of compensation offered by NHBC was sufficient to reflect 
this delay and the poor service Mr P had otherwise received. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In doing so he made the 
following points:
Nothing has been done to convince NHBC to provide a better service based on the 
FCAs values, principles and standards.
NHBCs processes didnt align with the Buildmark policy and forced him to comply 
with their instructions against the policy. 
He asked for the case handler to be changed and this was refused. 
He gave the builder ample opportunities to fix things but despite numerous meetings 
and visits, very few issues were fixed.
For each visit he had to take a day off work.
He doesnt believe the builder, despite its visits, had any intention of fixing the 
issues. Its intention was to frustrate him. 
He doesnt believe the offer of compensation adequately reflects the annual leave he 
had to take, the hundreds of emails he had to send, the extended period he spent 
without heating and other inconveniences. 
He has been abused, harassed and treated as rubbish in a vulnerable situation, with 
his personal and professional life disrupted. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has another complaint at this service which explains we are unable to consider issues 
that happened prior to 11 April 2019. It is only from this date; this service has the power to 
look into the matters Mr P has raised. This complaint looks only at issues that happened 
between 11 April 2019 and when NHBC issued its final response to Mr Ps complaint on 
9 September 2019.
I understand Mr P has strong views about what has happened, and hes provided numerous 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope Mr P wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr P and by NHBC and reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.Ill now explain why I think NHBC hasnt acted unfairly.
Mr P has said that NHBCs processes dont align with the Buildmark policy. While he hasnt 
expanded further on this point, I take it that he is referring to the fact NHBC decided to 
extend the time the builders had to rectify the issues, after the initial deadline it set in its 
resolution report. And, he had no say in this happening. 
Based on the evidence available to me, and the amount of issues outstanding, I think it was 
reasonable for NHBC to give the builders until 30 May 2019 to resolve all of the issues. I say 
this because the builders indicated to NHBC they were confident matters were moving 
forward and visits were, or were about to be booked into complete the repairs. I can 
understand why, given what had previously happened Mr P may have, and in this case, 
rightly, doubted the builders should be given more time but the Buildmark policy does allow 
NHBC to consider this course of action. And, on many occasions this is the right thing to do 
as issues are resolved more quickly than they would be if NHBC took over the process.
However, I do think, NHBC should have taken over the builders responsibilities after this 
further deadline had passed. At that point several appointments had been missed by the 
builder and no significant progress had been made with the repairs. It was also becoming 
clear that the relationship was breaking down between Mr P and the builder. I think by 
allowing the builders more time, NHBC caused a two month delay in the claim moving 
forward. 
At this point Mr P asked for the NHBC case handler to be changed which was refused. I can 
understand why Mr P made this request, but I dont think NHBC acted unreasonably by 
refusing. This is a very involved claim and changing the case handler would have 
undoubtably caused some delay while the new case handler got up to speed with everything 
that had happened. 
It took NHBC around five weeks to provide Mr P with the scope of works and associated 
costs, after it took over the builders responsibilities.  I dont think this was an unreasonable 
amount of time.  Mr P has disputed the scope and costings, but this matter is being dealt 
with under another complaint at this service, so I wont consider it here. 
I understand Mr Ps overall experience with the builder caused him a great deal of distress 
and inconvenience and hes set out in detail the impact this had on him. But as Ive 
explained above, I can only consider the actions of NHBC in this decision and only matters 
that happened after April 2019. I realise that asking Mr P to continue dealing with the builder 
after April 2019, and there being further missed appointments with no real progress, would 
have been very frustrating for Mr P. As Ive decided above that NHBC should have taken 
over the claim two months earlier than it did, I do think Mr P was caused additional trouble 
and upset within this time. 
NHBC has offered Mr P £650 compensation. And, taking everything into account, I think this 
is a reasonable amount and it fairly reflects the trouble and upset NHBCs actions caused. I 
wont therefore be asking NHBC to make any further payment to Mr P.
I understand that Mr P also has concerns about NHBCs conduct more widely but we arent
able to address those at this service as we arent the regulator. Our role is to consider the 
individual circumstances of each complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman