DRN-3138422
The complaint
Mr C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for transactions 
which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 27 July 2020, Mr C contacted Barclays. He said hed had a call from Barclays fraud 
team to alert him to suspicious behaviour on his account, but Barclays say it hadnt made 
any such call. Mr C said that a total of £2,319 had debited his account through his Barclays 
mobile banking app, and he hadnt authorised these debits. 
Barclays investigated. Mr C told Barclays that he hadnt shared his details with anyone, 
including his passcode for his mobile banking. He still had his debit card in his possession, 
and he hadnt compromised his details through any suspicious texts or emails. Barclays 
refused to refund Mr C. 
Mr C complained to this service. He said he saw the money leaving his account when hed 
been on the phone to Barclays, so the transactions couldnt have been done by him. He said 
hed never heard of the people to whom the money was paid, and had never had dealings 
with any of them in the past. Hed been working at the time it had happened, with his phone 
and card on him at all times. Mr C said hed never given his login details to anyone.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.  He said that if an unknown third party had 
carried out the transactions, theyd have needed Mr Cs card and mobile banking login 
details. So the investigator couldnt see how an unknown third party could have done it.
The investigator also noted that the first of the transactions had been carried out on the 
device which Mr C had used since August 2019. A new device had then been used for the 
rest. So any fraudster would have had to have obtained this, and been able to unlock it, then 
log in to Mr Cs mobile banking. The investigator couldnt see how this would have been 
possible.
And the investigator pointed out that the IP address for the first transaction was the same as 
Mr C had used before. And Mr C had said he didnt know any of the recipients  but in fact 
hed previously made a payment to one of them, a year earlier. 
So the investigator thought that the most likely explanation was that Mr C had carried out the 
transactions himself, or had had some involvement in them.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he didnt understand how the investigator thought Barclays had 
done nothing wrong when the money had been taken from his account. He said he didnt 
know how the money had been taken and hed never had dealings with any of the people 
the money had gone to. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in July 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive considered whether or not Mr C 
authorised these payments.
Ive seen computer evidence that Mr Cs genuine card and correct login details were used to 
make the payments. The first payment was made using the device which Mr C had used 
since August 2019. Then a new device was used for the other payments. 
To register a new device, a customer needs to download the app, and register. The 
registration process includes confirming account details, and then using a PIN sentry device 
or going to a Barclays cash machine. In either case, the customer needs physical access to 
the genuine card and the correct PIN. The customer then gets a code to put into the app, 
which completes the registration of the new device. So anyone registering a new device to 
carry out the disputed transactions would have had to have known Mr Cs account details, 
security information, and would have had to have had the physical card. But Mr C had said 
that he hadnt shared any of his details and that he had his card with him throughout.
Ive also looked at the IP address used for the transactions.  An IP address is a unique 
online identifier, showing where a transaction took place. The first disputed transaction used 
an IP address which had been used for genuine transactions in November and December 
2019. So I find that its highly unlikely an unknown third party fraudster would have had 
access to that IP address.
Several of the disputed payment recipients werent new. One of them, for instance, had been 
added as a new payee in late July 2019, when Mr C had made an undisputed payment to 
him. Other recipients had also been added, all before July 2020 when the disputed 
payments took place. I consider its very unlikely that an unknown third party fraudster would 
have chosen to make payments to some of the existing beneficiaries which Mr C already 
had set up on his account. 
When reaching my decision, I do so by assessing what I think it most likely to have 
happened, taking into account all the circumstances of the case. Here, I cant see how a 
third party fraudster could have obtained Mr Cs genuine card, the device hed used for some 
time, and his security details. Nor do I think a third party fraudster could have used the exact 
same location (shown by the IP address) as Mr C had used before. Nor is it likely that a third 
party fraudster would pay some of Mr Cs existing beneficiaries.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr C either 
carried out the disputed transactions himself, or consented to them. So I dont uphold his 
complaint and dont require Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman