DRN-4040205
The complaint
Ms B has complained that AWP P&C SA declined a claim she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary Ms B was unable to travel due to having Covid. The airline accepted this 
and issued a credit note. Ms B claimed under her travel policy for a refund. As the facts are 
not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
I refer to AWP P&C SA for simplicity, but this includes any trading name and/or its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I dont find that 
there has been a breach of these rules.
I do understand that Ms B would rather have her cash returned than the credit note 
offered by the airline and would have been prepared to give up the credit note. 
However credit note, which was valid for 18 months, was offered and accepted. 
Although I note that Ms B only travels at a certain time of the year, I dont find that it 
was overly restrictive. 
Under the cancellation section of Ms Bs policy, it provides that AWP will pay the 
irrecoverable portion of costs. As our investigator explained to be deemed 
irrecoverable there needs to be no alternative method by which a policyholder can be 
indemnified. As Ms B was offered a credit note I dont find that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for AWP to decline her claim.
AWP accepted that there had been delays in dealing with Ms Bs claim. It had been 
affected by an unprecedented influx of claims and apologised for the delay. I accept 
that this would have been frustrating for Ms B and caused inconvenience. I dont 
agree that this means AWP needs to pay her the value of her claim, but I do find that 
compensation is merited. Im satisfied £100 is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AWP P&C SA to pay Ms B 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman