DRN-2653959
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr T are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead)  - formerly 
known as Legal & General Insurance Limited  - declined a claim made on their household 
insurance.
What happened
In the middle of October 2017, Mrs B and Mr T say there was an escape of water that 
affected their bathroom floor. Mrs B and Mr T sought quotes from two builders and began to 
restore the damage at the end of October 2017, which included replacing the floor tiles.
In August 2020, Mrs B and Mr T contacted Fairmead to make a claim for the cost of the 
building works and the replacement tiles. They told Fairmead their personal circumstances 
had meant theyd not been able to report their claim sooner. Fairmead told Mrs B and Mr T it 
would need photos showing the damage, which Mrs B and Mr T said they didnt have. 
Instead Mrs B and Mr T provided Fairmead with photos of the restored floor, copies of the 
two builders quotes and the quote for the tiles. They also provided written testimony from 
their builder dated September 2020. The testimony said that the seal connecting the toilet 
had leaked causing the tiles to crack because the plywood underneath had bowed. The 
testimony also set out the restoration work the builder had undertaken.
 
Fairmead declined Mrs B and Mr Ts claim and they complained. 
Fairmeads final response letter to the complaint maintained its decision to decline their 
claim. It said it was up to Mrs B and Mr T to prove an insured event had occurred and that it 
couldnt validate the claim from the information Mrs B and Mr T had provided.  It said claims 
must be submitted promptly and that personal circumstances didnt warrant the three years it 
took for Mrs B and Mr T to make their claim. Fairmeads response noted that Mrs B and Mr 
Ts policy said they shouldve sought its approval before using their own tradespeople.
Mrs B and Mr T told Fairmead they felt the builders report and the invoices should be 
enough information for Fairmead to settle their claim. They offered to send in pictures of the 
previous flooring and a statement from another builder whod seen the damage. Fairmead 
said this wouldnt change its decision.
Mrs B and Mr T brought the complaint to us. They felt Fairmead should pay their claim. They 
said there was no question the escape of water had happened and they felt theyd provided 
Fairmead with enough proof. They said Fairmead told them the incident was covered by 
their policy and had agreed with them the evidence it would need to progress their claim, 
and that this didnt include photos of the damage.
Our investigator issued her view and didnt uphold Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint. She said 
there was no actual evidence of the damage and Fairmead hadnt been given the 
opportunity to examine any damage for itself. Our investigator said its not unreasonable for 
an insurer to want to check that an insured event has occurred before paying a claim and 
that Mrs B and Mr Ts policys terms say that in the event of a claim, Mrs B and Mr T would 
need Fairmeads approval before using their own contractors.
Mrs B and Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision. They felt their policys terms gave 
Fairmead discretion in appointing specialists or refusing to pay costs incurred before its 
approval. And that if Fairmead had exercised this discretion reasonably, it wouldve accepted 
their claim. They said that if theyd made their claim in 2017, Fairmead wouldve been 
unlikely to ask for more information than theyd provided in 2020. And that Fairmead hadnt 
provided any evidence to counter what theyd sent it. They said their claim was within the 
applicable legal limitation period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to want to establish a claim is valid before paying it.  And 
insurance policies include terms and conditions designed to involve the insurer in a claim at 
the earliest opportunity. These terms allow the insurer to see for itself the damage, its extent 
and whether any policy exclusions apply. There were a number of these terms present in 
Mrs B and Mr Ts policy wording. 
For example, under the heading your obligations following a claim Mrs B and Mr Ts policy 
wording says that the policyholder must Tell us as soon as reasonably possible and give us 
full details. Their policy wording also says, We may refuse to agree costs that are incurred 
by you before our agreed consent is given or for damaged items that are disposed of before 
inspection. And make sure you do not throw away any damaged contentsas you will 
need them to support your claim. Mrs B and Mr Ts policy also says, where you prefer to 
use your own tradesmen, we will need to agree this with you beforehand.
These terms are expressed clearly in Mrs B and Mr Ts policy documentation so Im satisfied 
Mrs B and Mr T would have been aware of them when they decided to carry out the work to 
their bathroom.
 
Mrs B and Mr T provided photos of the new floor and the previous flooring. But these dont 
show any damage. The builders quotes list the work to be undertaken but dont provide 
evidence of the damage. The testimony from the builder doesnt set out the extent of the 
damage and was provided after the opportunity for Fairmead to see the damage for itself 
had passed. 
Mrs B and Mr T told us that if theyd made the claim when the escape of water happened, 
Fairmead wouldnt have asked for any more information than theyd provided. But I think it 
likely Fairmead would have asked for more information. I think Fairmead would have at least 
asked for photos of the damage or perhaps have made arrangements to see the damage for 
itself, given that it asked for photos of the damage when Mrs B and Mr T reported their claim 
in 2020. 
Mrs B and Mr T said to us that Fairmead hadnt provided any evidence to counter what 
theyd provided. But in the event of any claim, its the policy holders responsibility to first 
prove that they have a valid claim and for the reasons Ive already discussed, I dont think 
Mrs B and Mr T have done this. So I dont think its material that Fairmead havent provided 
evidence to counter what Mrs B and Mr T have provided. Ive not seen any evidence that Fairmead told Mrs B and Mr T that the information they could 
provide would be enough to progress their claim without photos of the damage. 
 
Mrs B and Mr T say there were personal circumstances which prevented them from making 
a claim for three years. This seems quite a long period of time to wait before making a claim 
and Mrs B and Mr T havent said what these circumstances were. So I cant say it was 
reasonable for Mrs B and Mr T to delay making their claim for as long as they did whilst 
replacing the flooring. 
Mrs B and Mr T told us that their claim is within the applicable legal limitation limit. But I dont 
think Fairmead declined their claim because of how long it took for Mrs B and Mr T to report 
it, but rather because Fairmead hadnt been able to see the damage for itself. 
 
So it wouldnt be fair for me to instruct Fairmead to pay Mrs B and Mr Ts claim. Mrs B and 
Mr T havent provided enough evidence of any damage and its extent to support their claim 
and Fairmead wasnt given the opportunity to see the damage for itself. For these reasons, I 
cannot uphold Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman