DRN-3023058
The complaint
 Mr S complains about the quality of a car he got using finance provided by Motonovo 
Finance Limited trading as Motonovo Finance. He says the car has had various issues since 
shortly after he got it, some of which are ongoing.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S acquired a used car from a dealer. The total price was £15,338 and 
Mr S traded in a previous car for £3,000 and paid a £200 deposit. The rest of the balance 
was funded by a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement provided by Motonovo. The 
car was around 18 months old and had covered around 5,503 miles.
There was an issue with the finance agreement  which is not the subject of this decision - 
as Mr S wanted a hire purchase agreement rather than a PCP. So, in March 2020 a hire 
purchase agreement was set up for Mr S. This was for £12,138 to run over 60 months at 
£254.79 per month. Motonovo confirmed all payments to the previous agreement were either 
reimbursed to Mr S or credited to the new agreement.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr S says he began to have various problems with it.
In early December 2019 the car was returned to the dealer as it had various warning lights 
and Mr S said there was a problem with the camera. An issue with the radar for the parking 
sensor was noted and this was replaced. 
In March 2020 an oil change was required and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was blocked 
which required a regeneration. 
In April 2020 Mr S complained to Motonovo. In May 2020 the car was returned to Mr S and 
the dealer said it was all in working order. But, In June 2020 Mr S said issues were still 
present which included problems with the interior lighting, air conditioning, engine warning 
lights and issues with the cars key. 
In July 2020 Motonovo issued its final response to Mr Ss complaint. It said the dealer had 
confirmed that issues with the car were present and that repairs had failed. It upheld the 
complaint and said it would allow Mr S to reject the car. It offered:
£3,200 deposit to be reimbursed by the dealer
8% interest on the deposit totaling £88.37
£394.12 for two overpayments on the agreement and 8% interest of £10.80
£200 for any distress and inconvenience caused
Motonovo said that Mr S had covered around 4,000 miles in the car, so it would retain all 
monthly repayments made.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He said he either 
wanted to hand the car back and get a full refund of all repayments made, to keep the car 
but with reduced payments going forward, or to get a replacement car.
While we were looking into things, Mr S confirmed the car still has ongoing issues with the 
air conditioning, warning lights and the key not being detected. Mr S confirmed the car has 
been back to the dealer several times, but these problems have not been put right.
In March 2021 our investigator issued his opinion. He explained, in summary, that he 
thought Motonovos offer to put things right was fair. 
Mr S disagreed and said he thought this was very unfair. So, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I sent both parties a provisional decision on 5 May 2021. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr S complains about a car financed using a PCP agreement followed by a hire purchase 
agreement. Providing consumer credit contracts such as these is a regulated activity. So, Im 
satisfied we can consider Mr Ss complaint about Motonovo.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I have regard for relevant law and regulations. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This explains that when 
Mr S got the car, the supplier  Motonovo here  needed to make sure it was of satisfactory 
quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account 
relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here to be, amongst others, the cars age, price and 
mileage. So, Ill bear in mind that the car Mr S acquired was around 18 months old and had 
covered around 5,500 miles. So, although it was a used car, I think a reasonable person 
wouldve expected it to be in a better condition than a car with a higher mileage. I think they 
would still have had reasonably high expectations for its condition and they would have 
expected trouble free motoring for a fair amount of time. 
It isnt in dispute here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  both 
the dealer and Motonovo seem to accept this. And it also isnt in dispute that attempted 
repairs to put the issues right failed, and this meant the car still had ongoing issues when it 
was returned to Mr S. So, I dont need to consider this in any detail. But, to make things 
clear, Im also satisfied both of these things were the case given what Ive seen.
What I need to consider in this case is whether Motonovos offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr S said rather than rejection, he would prefer to have a replacement car. Ive thought 
about this, but I dont think it would be practical in this case. I say this as a replacement car 
would need to be the same age, mileage and exact specification as Mr Ss car  which I 
dont think would be simple  if at all possible  to acquire given it is a used model. 
Mr S also mentioned that he would possibly keep the car but with reduced repayments. Ive 
considered this. But, thinking about everything, I think the simplest, most fair and reasonable 
thing is to allow Mr S to reject the car.
So, Ive gone on to consider the specifics of the offer Motonovo made when it said Mr S 
could reject the car. But, having done so, I dont agree with part of what was offered here.
Motonovo said that as Mr S had covered around 4,000 miles in the car, it would retain all his 
repayments. Our investigator said she didnt think it was reasonable for Mr S to get back any of these repayments, as she didnt think hed suffered any impaired usage and had been 
kept mobile when repairs were being attempted. But I dont agree with this approach. Ill 
explain why.
Although I accept Mr S was able to use the car, Im also satisfied that it wasnt performing as 
it should  particularly taking account of its age and relatively low mileage. I think the issues 
Mr S had with the car did impair his usage of it. Ive also considered that, while Mr S was put 
in a courtesy car, this was of a smaller size than the one he was paying out for. So, I think 
Mr S should be reimbursed some of his monthly repayments to reflect this.
I have considered that Mr S said he thinks he should get all of his repayments back, but I 
dont agree this should be the case. Even though the car wasnt performing as it should, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to drive the car for free. So, I do think its 
reasonable for Motonovo to retain most of the repayments for his usage.
The offer was made some time ago and things have moved on since then. Mr S has 
continued to use the car. But, Im also satisfied Mr S has had ongoing intermittent issues 
with it  hes provided photos and videos of warning lights and the car showing it didnt 
recognise the key. Mr S has explained this has meant he cant use the car for several hours 
and on occasion hes not been able to use it until the following day. And Mr S said hes taken 
the car to the garage for further repairs and again been given smaller courtesy cars.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Mr S to be 
reimbursed 15% of repayments made towards the agreement, to reflect the impaired use 
hes had of the car.
The rest of the offer Motonovo made does seem fair and reasonable to me under the 
circumstances. But, it will need to update its calculations for any interest due. I also noted it 
said the dealer would be accepting the car and returning Mr Ss deposit. But, its up to 
Motonovo, as the supplier, to put things right here. So, it will need to arrange to collect the 
car and reimburse Mr S itself.
Motonovo didnt give a detailed explanation of the two overpayments it was refunding. I am 
assuming these are to do with the previous agreement and so I still think its reasonable 
these are reimbursed if due  however I will of course reconsider this in my final decision if 
Motonovo provide evidence this is not the case.
Finally, I think its fair and reasonable that Motonovo should also remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to this car.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence. 
Mr S got in touch and said he agreed to my decision. Motonovo responded and said it 
thought my decision was unfair. It made some points for me to consider.
Later, Mr S let me know that in early May 2021 the car had been involved in an accident and 
was written off by his insurance company. I asked Motonovo and Mr S to provide further 
information about this.
When the car was written off, the insurance engineer valued it at £13,000. Mr S decided to 
keep the salvage, which was valued at £2,990. A policy excess of £400 was removed and 
the remaining balance from the claim was sent to Motonovo. Motonovo confirmed it received 
£9,610. It said the settlement figure for Mr Ss finance was £9,943.72. So, it said £333.72 
was due from Mr S.Due to the new information, I sent Mr S and Motonovo a second provisional decision on 2 
June 2021. My findings from this decision were as follows: 
I still think the complaint should be upheld. But, I think Motonovo needs to something 
different to put things right than I explained in my first provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
The situation has obviously changed since I last wrote to Mr S and Motonovo. What I now 
need to consider is what would be fair to put things right, bearing in mind the new 
information.
I should note that Mr S has reached an agreement with his insurance company about the
value of the car and salvage. This has been done independently from Motonovo or our
service so I wont comment on this.
In my initial provisional decision, I suggested it was reasonable for Mr S to be allowed to 
reject the car and for Motonovo to collect it. But, Mr S has now decided to take ownership of 
the salvage, so this is no longer appropriate.
I also recommended Motonovo return Mr Ss deposit. As he isnt rejecting the car anymore, I 
dont think this is fair and reasonable. Ive taken into account that Mr Ss deposit has been 
factored in to the outstanding balance and settlement between the insurance company and  
Motonovo. Had he not paid a deposit, Mr S would owe Motonovo a higher balance, so Im 
satisfied nothing further needs to be done here.
I do still think Mr S should be reimbursed some of his repayments for the time the finance 
was active and he had the car before it was involved in an accident. I considered what 
Motonovo said about this in response to my provisional decision. 
Motonovo said it was reasonable to apply a fair usage charge for when Mr S had use of the 
car. But, it said this should be the full monthly amount under the agreement. I only think it 
would be fair to retain all repayments Mr S made if the car was fully functional and 
performing as it should before the accident. As I explained in my previous findings above, 
Im satisfied this wasnt the case here. So, while I think Motonovo should retain the majority 
of the repayments made, I still think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to receive a proportion 
of these back.
Motonovo said it doesnt know if Mr S caused further damage to the car, prior to the 
accident, by driving it. But it hasnt provided any evidence to suggest he did. So, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
Im also still satisfied Mr S has suffered distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened here. And Im satisfied the accident and insurance write off doesnt affect this.
I explained in my first provisional decision that I had assumed the two overpayments 
Motonovo had offered were still due. I said if this wasnt correct Motonovo could provide 
some evidence this wasnt the case. It didnt dispute this  so I think this should still be paid.
Finally, I understand there is an outstanding balance due from Mr S to Motonovo to settle the 
finance. I think its fair and reasonable that it retains this amount from the balance due to 
Mr S, assuming this hasnt been paid.
 
I gave both parties a month to come back with any new information or evidence. Mr S and 
Motonovo both responded to the second provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Motonovo responded to my second provisional decision with some points to consider. 
It said the two overpayments mentioned in my decision had already been reimbursed, and it 
provided some evidence showing these were credited to Mr Ss account in March 2020. I 
explained this to Mr S who said he didnt think the payments were credited as he had still 
made the same monthly repayments every month.
Thinking about this, it appears the credits wouldve reduced the amount due on Mr Ss 
account, rather than being used to reduce the monthly payments. So, Im satisfied its likely 
these payments have already been considered on any balance due and Motonovo do not 
have to reimburse Mr S for this again.
Motonovo again said it isnt reasonable to reimburse 15% of the repayments as Mr S should 
pay for usage. But, thinking about this Im still satisfied this is fair and reasonable for the 
reasons explained in my previous decisions and set out above.
Motonovo also asked if it was okay to use the distress and inconvenience payment to reduce 
any balance due. This is a separate issue, so I think its fair this should be paid directly to 
Mr S. But, if there is still a balance due from Mr S on the account Motonovo can use the 
other reimbursement to reduce or clear this.
Mr S pointed out that once hed received the salvage the car still had issues with it and the 
electrical problems were ongoing. But, Mr S knew the condition of the car before he decided 
to retain the salvage and effectively take ownership of it. In this particular case, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Motonovo responsible for the issues past this point.
Thinking about everything else on the case, I still think the complaint should be upheld for 
the same reasons explained in my provisional decisions and set out above.
Putting things right
 To put things right Motonovo should:
Reimburse Mr S 15% of all monthly repayments made towards the agreement* **
Pay Mr S £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
*This amount should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of payment to the 
time of reimbursement. If Motonovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** Motonovo can retain the outstanding balance from this amount, if one is still due.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Motonovo Finance Limited trading as Motonovo Finance to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman