DRN-3720498
The complaint
Mr N complains Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited (Wren Sterling) has been 
collecting fees from him as part of an advisory services for a stocks and shares ISA 
investment and a personal pension plan. He complains that he hasnt received the services 
he paid for and would like the fees to be refunded.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr N received advice from Wren Sterling to transfer £100,000 from his ISAs 
into a new stocks and shares ISA. In addition to this and following advice from Wren 
Sterling, Mr N made a lump sum pension payment of £2,880 net into a personal pension 
plan.
Mr N wrote to Wren Sterling in August 2021 to cancel any advisory services associated with 
his investments. He expressed dissatisfaction in substantial fees being deducted for what he 
considered to be non-existent advisory services.  He felt hed had no contact with his advisor 
since taking out the investments and so shouldnt have been charged. He also said that he 
recalled being told by his advisor, when initially receiving the advice, that if he wished to stop 
the advisory services and then re-start them again, then the costs would resume as if they 
had never been paused. He said this left him feeling like he had no option but to continue 
paying the ongoing advisory fees.
Wren Sterling looked into Mr Ns complaint and partially upheld it. It said that while it 
recommend ongoing reviews, it wasnt mandatory for Mr N to receive an ongoing advisory 
services throughout the term of his investments and he was free to decline this 
recommendation without impacting on the overall recommendation he was initially provided. 
Wren Sterling explained that, as per the point of sale documents, Mr N could have instructed 
it at any stage that he didnt require the services and therefore wished to cancel payment of 
the associated fees. However, the result of that would be that any later review or advice 
required would be treated as new advice and would require the full advice process to be 
followed, including the standard fees this entails. 
Wren Sterling looked at its records, it noted Mr N was offered annual reviews in March 2019 
and May 2021. However, it failed to offer him an annual review in 2020 due to problems 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. It said that as the lockdown eased and processes were 
put into place to deal with the pandemic conditions, it still didnt contact Mr N as it ought to 
have. As such, Wren Sterling apologised for the error and offered to refund all advice fees 
for the period from April 2019 to May 2020 in relation to his stocks and shares ISA, 
amounting to £1,198.12. Wren Sterling also explained that it received a letter in August 2021 
notifying it that there had been a change in servicing rights, and it was no longer acting as 
agents for his stocks and shares ISA. As such, it said it could have investigated whether Mr 
N intended to cancel his arrangement with respect to his personal pension. So it also offered 
to refund the fees paid in relation to Mr Ns pension since August 2021, amounting to £9.75, 
for a total payment of £1,207.87. 
Mr N didnt accept Wren Sterlings offer and so he referred his complaint to this Service for 
an independent review. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said:
The documents provided at the time of advice made it clear that Wren Sterling had a 
separate charging structure for initial services to its ongoing client services. 
Mr N was part of the Client Service Programme which charged 1% of the total value 
for his investments annually, which was deducted directly on a month-basis from his 
investments. 
The benefits of the Client Service Programme included access to a financial advisor 
by email and telephone, forward planning meetings and a financial update. The 
forward planning meeting consisted of regular financial reviews to discuss the growth 
of Mr Ns investments and any legal changes that could affect his portfolio, giving an 
opportunity to recommend any advantageous changes.
The client agreement included termination rights, explaining that the service could be 
cancelled at any time provided its put in writing, and would start on the date of 
receipt by Wren Sterling. 
She was satisfied Wren Sterling sent Mr N invitations for an annual review each year 
(except for 2020).
Wren Sterling also sent portfolio statements which gave a snapshot of Mr Ns 
investments and encouraged him to contact his advisor. 
She considered Mr Ns concerns about feeling pressured to continue with the 
ongoing advisory service. Wren Sterling explained that its services could be 
terminated at any time but the 1% ongoing fees would start again if he wanted to take 
up the services again as Wren Sterling would need to undertake a new assessment 
of Mr Ns financial situation. 
She was satisfied Wren Sterlings offer to refund fees for advisory services in 2020 
and fees paid in relation to Mr Ns pension since August 2021 was fair and 
reasonable and so she didnt think Wren Sterling needed to do anything further. 
Mr N didnt accept the investigators findings as he felt he should be entitled to a refund of all 
fees associated with the advisory services. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr N feels strongly that he hasnt received the services hes been paying for, 
however, I must explain our approach to complaints like his is to consider whether a firm told 
the consumer about the costs of a transaction or service before it took place. And if it did, 
this Service is likely to be unable to uphold a complaint just about those costs, provided the 
costs were set out in a clear fair and not misleading way.
Ive considered the point of sale documentation Mr N was provided with when taking out his 
investments. These include the fact find document Mr N completed with Wren Sterling. 
Within this the advisor confirms that Mr N was happy for any Initial and ongoing fees to be 
deducted from the monies invested and prefer simplicity even though this will reduce [his] 
overall ISA holdings.
The Financial Planning Report Wren Sterling completed with Mr N explained the fees further:Ongoing fees
During our meetings we have discussed the importance of regular reviews both of 
the continuing suitability of your investment plan and how it is performing in relation 
to your objectives. As everybodys circumstances change over time, this is a vital 
stage of financial planning, and as such Wren Sterling offer a range of services to 
support our clients, and more detail is contained in our Client Agreement.
The Financial Planning Report then went on to provide a table setting out the 1% ongoing 
advisor fee and explained that by paying this fee from the plan, Mr N would be increasing the 
total fees paid through his investments  meaning the fund value would be lower than if he'd 
the fee separately. 
Furthermore, the application form Mr N completed to take out his investments also explained 
that a 1% monthly ongoing adviser fee would commence on 7 May 2018.  
I understand Mr N says his advisor when initially told him that if he wished to stop the fee 
and then re-start the advisory services again, then the costs would resume as if they had 
never been paused. However, the point of sale documents didnt record what was said about 
the fee other than that which Ive explained above. Also, Wren Sterlings terms of business 
make it clear that these services can be cancelled at any time:
You are able to cancel our ongoing services at any time. Notice of this cancellation 
must be given in writing and will take effect from the date of receipt.
Whilst I cant determine what the advisor said, its clear from the terms of business that it 
was correct that Mr N would need to pay for any future advisory services if hed cancelled 
the fee:
Whilst cancellation will end our responsibility to provide ongoing reviews for your 
financial plan, we will remain available for assistance on any aspect of your financial 
situation but this would require a separate fee to be charged.
And I think it would be prudent for his advisor to make him aware of this before proceeding 
with the investments and ongoing advisor fee. Theres no mention of the fee being applied 
retrospectively to cover the time between cancelling and restarting the advisory services.
Ive also considered Mr Ns points around not having annual reviews of his investments and 
Ive thought carefully about whether this means he ought not to have been charged the fee. 
Whilst Mr N may not have had a review since taking out the investments, Ive seen evidence 
that Wren Sterling did contact him by letter to offer reviews in March 2019 and May 2021. Its 
not disputed that Mr N received these letters and its not clear why Mr N chose not to take up 
these offers. However, I dont think his decision not to means he ought to be entitled to a 
refund of all his ongoing adviser fees. I say this as the fee entitled him to the benefits of 
Wren Sterlings Client Service Programme which included access to a financial advisor by 
email and telephone, forward planning meetings and a financial update. As such, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to require Wren Sterling to refund him the fee for 2019 
and 2021 considering hed been made aware of the fee, been offered annual reviews but 
decided himself not to take up any of the benefits associated with the fee. 
Clearly, the circumstances around 2020 are different and Wren Sterling accepts that it failed 
to offer Mr N the opportunity to have an annual review. However, I think the offer its put 
forward to refund all advice fees for the period from April 2019 to May 2020 in relation to his 
stocks and shares ISA, amounting to £1,198.12 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied Wren Sterlings offer to refund the fees paid in relation to Mr Ns 
pension since August 2021, amounting to £9.75 is also fair considering by that time itd been 
made aware that there it was no longer acting as agents for his stocks and shares ISA and so it could have investigated whether he intended to cancel his arrangement with respect to 
his personal pension. 
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Wren Sterling made Mr N aware of the 
ongoing advisor fee and that he was entitled to cancel these services if he no longer 
required it. Im also satisfied that it ought to have offered him an annual review in 2020 and 
considered whether he still wanted its involvement in his personal pension. But I feel its offer 
fairly reflects these failings. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Wren Sterling Financial Planning to pay Mr N the 
£1,207.87 already offered if he accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman