DRN-2984307
The complaint
Mr L complains that GE Money Home Lending Limited have overcharged him on his 
mortgage. Specifically, he says hes been overcharged because GE Money have not 
calculated the interest correctly, and have applied charges to the account unfairly.
This complaint was made as a result of an audit carried out by a third party on Mr Ls behalf.
What happened
Mr L took out a mortgage with GE Money in 2007. The mortgage was redeemed in 2013.
In August 2019, a professional representative complained to GE Money on Mr Ls behalf. 
Theyd carried out an audit on the mortgage account, and complained that the audit showed 
Mr L had been overcharged on his mortgage.
GE Money issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. They said Mr Ls 
complaint about the interest charged on the account in the fixed rate period, before 
September 2010, had been made out of time. After that period, the mortgage moved onto 
GE Moneys variable rate, which had operated in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, so they didnt uphold that part of the complaint. 
GE Money also said that Mr Ls complaint about the charges added to the mortgage before 
July 2013 had been made out of time. They said since then, two lots of additional interest 
had been charged as a result of late payments  this totalled £4.27. They also said Mr L had 
been charged discharge fees upon redemption of the mortgage, in line with the tariff of 
charges.
 
Mr L asked us to consider his complaint, and I issued a decision setting out which parts of 
the complaint our service could consider. I said we could consider the following:
Mr L has been overcharged interest since 3 July 2010, as this has not been 
calculated correctly;
The charges added to the mortgage since August 2013 were applied unfairly.
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of Mr Ls complaint points that had been 
made in time. Having done so, she explained she didnt think GE Money had acted unfairly.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint. He said hed been told by two 
accountants that he was due a refund on his mortgage account.
The complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest charged on the account
Mr L has told us that he believes hes been overcharged interest as a result of what the
audit report showed him. Ive looked carefully at the audit report Mr L refers to. This states 
that GE Money have not calculated Mr Ls interest payments correctly on his account. The 
audit report has used the interest rates set out in the mortgage offer as the basis of the 
calculation for what they think Mr L should have been charged, and compared this to what 
Mr L was actually charged. As the amount differs, the audit has assumed that the only 
explanation for this is that GE Money did not apply interest in the way the agreement set out. 
So Ive looked at what the mortgage offer said about the interest that would apply to the 
mortgage.
Mr Ls mortgage offer stated that the mortgage would be on a fixed interest rate of 6.94% for
the first three years, after which the mortgage would revert to a variable rate. The variable 
rate was 2.44% above Barclays base rate.
Between July 2010 and September 2010, the fixed rate was applied to Mr Ls mortgage. I 
can see that was correctly applied and was clear on the account statements. In September 
2010 the fixed rate period ended, and the mortgage reverted to the variable rate, in line with 
what was set out in the mortgage offer. At the time the mortgage reverted, the variable rate 
was 2.94% (2.44% above Barclays base rate of 0.5%). I can see from the statements and 
transaction history for the account, that this variable rate stayed the same until Mr L 
redeemed the mortgage in 2013. Im not satisfied the incorrect interest rate has been applied 
to the account, and Ive not seen anything to suggest the interest had been calculated 
incorrectly.
I note there were periods where payments werent made to the account. And so the 
mortgage balance did actually increase as a result of these missed payments, and the fees 
that were applied to the account due to the arrears. As the balance was higher than it should 
have been, more interest was charged on the account, as well as on the fees and charges 
balance that was added to the mortgage. But the interest rate applied to this balance was 
still the correct one. And interest is payable on the entire mortgage balance until its 
redeemed, so Im not persuaded GE Money acted unfairly by applying it.
The charges added to the account
From August 2013 onwards, the only charges added to the mortgage account were on 
redemption. The redemption statement from October 2013 shows an Early Repayment 
Charge of £384.22 was applied to the account, as well as a Repayment administration and 
discharge fee of £150.
The mortgage offer states that after the initial fixed rate period, no Early Repayment Charge 
would be applicable if the mortgage was redeemed early, provided at least one months 
written notice is given prior to redemption. The offer says if one months written notice isnt 
given, the Early Repayment Charge would be one months interest.
On 7 October 2013 Mr Ls solicitors wrote to GE Money asking for a redemption figure for 
the mortgage to be redeemed on 11 October. The mortgage was then redeemed on 17 
October 2013. So as one months written notice wasnt provided prior to redemption, GE 
Money had the right to apply one months interest to the account  which was the sum of 
£384.22. And considering the circumstances, Im persuaded it was fair for them to apply it in 
line with the mortgage terms.
Mr Ls mortgage offer stated that a mortgage exit administration fee would be payable at the 
time of the final loan payment. The tariff of fees and charges shows that this fee is charged 
for work completed to process the final payment of the loan, and discharge GE Moneys 
security at the land registry. The tariff says this fee is £150, and thats what was applied to 
Mr Ls account. So Im satisfied GE Money were fair to apply this fee upon redemption.Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Im not persuaded GE 
Money have overcharged him on his mortgage during the period Ive been able to consider.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman