DRN-3881708
The complaint
Mr D complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to him and that the timeshare 
company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit provided by 
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb). Because of that, Mr D says that he has a claim 
against Honeycomb in the same way he has a claim against the timeshare company. He 
also says that the wider circumstances mean that he has been treated unfairly by both the 
timeshare company and Honeycomb.
The loan (and with it responsibility for this complaint) was transferred in August 2022 to Oplo 
PL Ltd (Oplo), but, for simplicity, I shall refer to the respondent as Honeycomb.
Mr D has been represented by a claims management company, which Ill call F.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr D was on holiday with his wife in Malta. Following a presentation given by 
Azure Resorts, they bought points (called XPs) which they could exchange for holiday 
accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving 
experiences. They bought 8,000 XPs for £16,975, funded with a 180 month loan from 
Honeycomb in Mr Ds name.
In or around April 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation.
In April 2021 F contacted Honeycomb on behalf of Mr D. F said that the XP points had been 
misrepresented to him. He had been told that they were an investment that could be sold, 
but that was not the case. Mr D had been told as well that he would have a wide range of 
accommodation to choose from, but that was not true either.
F said too that because the Azure companies were in liquidation they could no longer 
provide the services sold. They were therefore in breach of contract.
Further, F said, it was not disclosed to Mr D that a commission would be paid, no checks 
were carried out to ensure he could afford the loan payments, and Mr D and his wife were 
pressured into buying the XP points on the day. Mr D was not given a choice of lender.
Honeycomb did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said, in summary:
Mr D would have had the documentation, including the finance documents, explained to 
him.
Mr D was entitled to seek out a different lender or to pay by different means. He chose 
to take a loan from Honeycomb, however, and had a 14-day cooling-off period if he 
wanted to change his mind.
All necessary affordability checks were carried out for the lending.
F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had
happened but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.
F did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the
complaint.
I did that and issued a preliminary decision. In that decision, I said:
Affordability and suitability checks
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that Honeycomb had not carried out 
proper checks to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr Ds needs. It 
also said that Mr D had not been given any choice about the lender he used.
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. And lenders should consider as well whether a loan is 
likely to remain affordable, having in mind how a borrowers circumstances might change 
during the life of the loan. Such changes might include retirement.
Before submitting the complaint, F prepared a questionnaire for Mr D to complete. It included 
questions about the loan. Mr D said that he did not recall being asked about his income or 
expenditure, just whether he was in employment. He said he was not asked about his 
retirement plans.
Mr D said too, however, that he had not had any difficulties in making repayments and that 
he had not missed any payments. The fact that a borrower has been able to make loan 
payments does not, of itself, mean that a loan is affordable and that it will remain affordable, 
still less that appropriate checks were carried out. It is a factor that is relevant, but no more.
I note that the loan documents said that Mr D should consider whether the loan payments 
were affordable and, in doing so, he should have in mind any future changes to his 
circumstances. I have taken that into account, but the primary responsibility for checking 
whether a loan is affordable remains with the lender.
I must consider however not only whether Honeycomb made proper checks, but also what 
the consequence was if it did not do so. It might have declined the loan or offered to lend a 
different amount or a different repayment period. In this case, however, and given Mr D has 
been able to make payments, I think it is likely that, even if Honeycomb had carried out more 
detailed checks, its likely it would have acted in the same way. That is, it would have agreed 
the loan in any event.
As I have said, Mr D has not said he is having difficulty making loan payments, but if that 
changes I would expect Opla (as the company now responsible for the loan) to discuss 
options with him.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the XP points. The loan 
documents refer to three credit intermediaries  Business Brokers Limited; Vacation Finance 
Limited; and Freedom Finance. The sale documents suggest that the supplier was Azure 
XP Limited (a company registered in the British Virgin Islands), although Honeycomb says 
that it was Azure Services Limited.
Honeycomb has not suggested however that the necessary arrangements were not in place 
for sections 56 and 75 to apply, and I have therefore approached the case on the 
assumption that they did  either because the supplier had pre-existing arrangements with 
Honeycomb or because Honeycomb had such arrangements with a company closely linked 
to the supplier. It is of course open to the parties to make further submissions on this point, 
should they wish to do so.
I have therefore considered what F has said about the alleged breach of contract and 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Honeycomb provided a copy of the purchase agreement, the Azure Experiences Club Rules 
and Standard Information for Timeshare Contracts. The purchase agreement is a one-page 
document which does little more than record Mr Ds and his partners details, the number of 
XP points bought, the date and the purchase price. The Standard Information document sets 
out the services that are to be provided to members, but does not specify who will provide 
them.
In a letter of 28 April 2021 to Honeycomb, F said:
Azure are now in liquidation. They cannot provide the service sold. They are in breach of 
contract.
The first of those statements was true, but it did not follow that there was a breach of 
contract. Azure XP Limited had founded the Azure Experiences Membership Club. It had 
ownership of or access to properties which were to be used by members, but transferred 
those ownership and access rights to a different company, the sole shareholder in which 
was to be a trustee.
On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Ds purchase of XP points remain 
available to him and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies.F did not suggest that it would be a breach of contract for any company other than Azure to 
provide the membership services. If that is Mr Ds case, then I disagree. The contract is 
performed if the services are provided; they do not have to be provided by Azure.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
Mr D says that he was told the XP points could be sold and were an investment  contrary to 
relevant regulations which prohibit the sale of timeshare products as an investment.
Section 7 of the Club Rules dealt with the transfer of rights. It allowed the transfer of 
membership, including by sale, subject to the written approval of Azure.
The Standard Information document included:
The resale facility for Azure XPs for new members  will be available five years following 
the start of Membership.  There are NO third-party resale companies which may 
undertake this service on your behalf. 
I think therefore that it is unlikely that Mr D was told that XP points were an investment. The 
sale documents indicated that it might be possible to sell the points, although there were 
limitations on how he might do that. If Mr D thought he was being told the points were an 
investment, I think he would have asked for more information about the sales process and 
the likely returns. He has not suggested however that anything was said about the likely 
returns or any profit that might have been made in the past.
Mr D says too that accommodation was harder to secure than he had been led to believe it 
would be. The Reservation Rules said that reservations would be on a first come, first 
served basis. I think it was implicit in that that members would not always be able to book 
their first choice of accommodation. Further, although Mr D has said he has been unable to 
book his choice of accommodation, he has not provided any details of accommodation he  
has tried but been unable to book, or of holidays he has been able to take.
Mr D says he was misled about the fees he would have to pay each year. Section 4 of the 
Club Rules set out how the membership fees would increase over time and how the 
Accelerated Usage Fee would be calculated and what the fees would be spent on. The 
Standard Information document referred to Club Rules when summarising the fees payable. 
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that Mr D was misled about them.
The fact that matters are included in contractual documents does not necessarily mean that 
there was no misrepresentation about the same matters. But Mr D says that, but for the false 
representations made, he would not have bought the XP points. If those issues were that 
important to him, I think Mr D would have checked what the documents said about them, 
either at the point of sale or in the 14-day cooling-off period after the sale. That cooling-off 
period applied to both the sale agreement and to the loan.
In the circumstances, I do not believe it was unreasonable of Honeycomb to decline Mr Ds 
claim under section 75.
Unfair relationship
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account connected agreements. I have approached this 
case on the basis that Mr Ds agreement with Azure was a connected agreement in this case 
 although, as I have said, I will consider any further evidence on that point if the parties ask 
me to do so.
For the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that Mr D was misled about the terms of 
the sale contract. F says however that there are other matters which mean that the loan 
agreement created an unfair relationship.
F says that Mr D was not given a choice of lenders. I have however seen Azures Initial 
Disclosure Document, which explains that Honeycomb is its preferred lender. But there is 
nothing to suggest that Mr D could not have selected his own lender (although doing so 
would have lost him some of the protections under the Consumer Credit Act), or that he was 
told he couldnt do so. There is no suggestion either that Mr D asked whether he could 
approach a different lender, either at the time of the sale or during the 14-day cooling-off 
period.
F says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr D. There is 
however no suggestion that it was important to him, or that it would have made any 
difference to his decision to purchase.
In any event, Azure wasnt acting as an agent of Mr D, but as the supplier of XP points. It 
also introduced Honeycomb as a preferred lender, if Mr D wanted to take out a loan. But it 
does not appear to me that it was Azures role to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation about Mr Ds finance options or to give him advice or information on that 
basis. In any event, typical amounts of commission paid by lenders were unlikely to be much 
more than 10%.
Mr D says he felt pressured into agreeing to buy the XP points and that he was rushed into a 
decision. I have no doubt that Azure was keen to secure a sale and did its best to ensure 
that Mr D agreed to buy the points. But Mr D also had 14 days in which to consider things 
and to withdraw if he wanted to. Regulations require that cooling-off period, in part in 
response to timeshare owners historic complaints that they were pressured into buying. In 
considering whether Mr D was treated fairly, I do not believe I can ignore the fact that he had 
time to reflect on both the sale and the loan and could have withdrawn from them.
Conclusions
It is not for me to decide whether Mr D has a claim against Azure, or whether he might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140B. Only a court can do that.
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ds 
complaint, taking into account (amongst other things) any relevant law. In the circumstances, 
I think that Honeycombs response to Mr Ds claims was fair and reasonable.
F, on behalf of Mr D, said that it needed more time to respond to my provisional decision. 
Specifically, it referred to the High Courts judgment on a judicial review of two decisions of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service in respect of timeshare cases ([2023] EWHC 1069). That 
judgment was issued on 5 May 2023. 
I have however not received any further submissions or evidence from either party, and the 
increased time limit for Mr Ds response has now expired.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in that decision. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I have considered the judgment in the judicial review, but do 
not believe it gives me any reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and do not 
require Oplo PL Ltd to take any further steps to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman