DRN-2199607
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined her claim because the 
policy hadnt been renewed.
What happened
Mrs G had home emergency insurance with IPA. She called to report a leak and arrange an 
emergency repair, but IPA told her that she hadnt renewed her policy. Mrs G arranged for a 
plumber to complete the repair and paid a call out fee of £95.
Mrs G complained to IPA and, on investigation, it found that she did have valid cover in 
place. IPA agreed to reimburse her for the call out fee and offered £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience its error had caused. Mrs G declined the compensation, and IPAs 
subsequent offer of £100. She thought that IPA should refund all the premiums shed paid.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that IPA had paid what it wouldve 
done under the policy and that the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs G didnt agree. She felt that IPA shouldve provided cover on the day the emergency 
happened. It didnt, so she hasnt benefited from the emergency assistance during a crisis.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
At this point, theres no dispute that Mrs G had cover in place and that IPA made a mistake 
when it refused to send out a plumber for an emergency repair. What remains for me to 
decide is whether IPA has made a fair offer to resolve things. To do this, Ive looked at what 
shouldve happened and whether the actual events put Mrs G in a position of significant loss.
If IPA had correctly identified that Mrs G had home emergency cover in place, it wouldve 
arranged for a plumber to complete an emergency repair to stop the leak. That wouldve 
been the extent of its involvement because Mrs Gs home emergency cover doesnt include 
damage repair.
What actually happened was Mrs G arranged for her own plumber to attend the same day to 
stop the leak, and she paid the call out fee. So, the direct loss here is £95. IPA agreed to 
reimburse Mrs G for the fee, meaning she hasnt incurred that cost. Im satisfied that puts 
her back in the position she wouldve been in, financially, if IPA had arranged the emergency 
repair.
Moving on to the compensation, IPA offered £50 and then increased its offer to £100. I 
understand Mrs G doesnt think this is enough, especially given the inconvenience shes had 
living away from home while repairs were completed, and the overall upset the situation 
mustve caused her. 
While I appreciate its difficult to separate IPAs individual responsibility from all the events, I 
must be clear that its only responsible for the inconvenience on the day Mrs G reported the 
leak. If IPA had done what it shouldve done and sent a plumber to complete an emergency 
repair, all other events relating to the leak would still have happened - none of which were 
covered under the home emergency policy, meaning there was no further loss to Mrs G. So I 
dont think its fair to ask IPA to refund all premiums paid over the years Mrs G had the policy 
for making one mistake on the day of the emergency. However, I do think its fair to pay 
compensation of £100 by way of apology for the added distress and upset on a day that it 
shouldve provided emergency cover, and which acknowledges the premium Mrs G paid for 
that years cover. 
In summary, IPA made a mistake when it told Mrs G that she didnt have emergency cover, 
resulting in her making her own arrangements on the day. IPA reimbursed her the call out 
fee and offered £100 compensation by way of apology, which adequately covers the annual 
premium. Im satisfied thats a fair outcome in the circumstances, and I dont think IPA needs 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman