DRN-3283814
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the customer service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when he called them to discuss his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays.
In August 2021 he complained to Barclays about the customer service he received when 
hed called Barclays to discuss the mortgage. He said theyd spoken to him rudely, and calls 
had dropped out frequently and he hadnt been called back.
On 17 August 2021 Barclays sent their final response to Mr S. They apologised to Mr S for 
the service hed received. They said theyd listen to the calls and give feedback to staff if 
they hadnt handled his calls properly. They explained that sometimes if calls cut out call 
handlers may not be able to call back straight away. They offered Mr S £75, which was paid 
to him shortly afterwards. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought £75 was fair compensation. But 
Mr S didnt agree. He thinks compensation of £500 would be fair.
Mr Ss complaints now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted they fell short in the service they gave Mr S. Theyve apologised 
and have paid him compensation. So whats left for me to consider is the impact this has had 
on Mr S, and if the compensation Barclays have paid him is fair.
Ive considered everything Mr S has said about how this impacted him. Hes explained that 
he spent a lot of time trying to speak to Barclays, and calls cut out five or six times. He thinks 
Barclays should be more focussed on providing a proper customer service. He says he 
understands our awards arent meant to punish a business, but he thinks £500 is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience hes experienced.
I accept what Mr S has said, and I can understand that this would have been an 
inconvenient experience for him. However, I dont think its caused him the substantial 
distress, upset and worry wed normally associate with awards in the region of £500.
Taking everything Mr S has said into account, I do think the total compensation of £75 is fair, 
reasonable and in line with awards weve made in similar circumstances. So, although Im 
sorry to disappoint him, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman