DRN-3018516
The complaint
Mr K complained that Ferratum UK Ltd acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Mr K took out seven loans in total with Ferratum as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 30/09/2018 23/10/2018 1 £300.00
2 10/11/2018 23/11/2018 1 £100.00
3 16/02/2019 22/02/2019 1 £200.00
4 11/03/2019 23/04/2019 1 £300.00
5 29/04/2019 23/05/2019 1 £200.00
6 05/06/2019 21/06/2019 1 £300.00
7 28/09/2019 16/12/2019 3 £300.00
Mr K mainly said that Ferratum gave him multiple payday loans in quick succession while he 
was already struggling financially. Its my understanding that Mr K feels that Ferratum didnt 
do proper checks before providing these loans. Mr K told us his financial difficulties left him 
feeling depressed and stressed and he kept on borrowing more and prioritised making the 
loan repayments over essential spending as he was worried about the consequences of not 
repaying the loans. 
When he complained to Ferratum, it agreed to uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans 5 - 7 but 
it didnt agree it had done anything wrong when it provided loans 1 - 4. 
Mr K didnt feel that Ferratums offer went far enough so Mr K brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr K and Ferratum told us about these loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. For loans 1 - 4, she didnt think that the 
information gathered raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Ferratum 
saw anything that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr K took, the amounts they were 
for or the period of time he was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve 
shown Ferratum he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty. 
For loans 5 - 7, our adjudicator explained that Ferratum had already offered to do everything 
we would expect a lender to do in these circumstances where it agreed to uphold a 
complaint.
Mr K disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In particular, Mr K wanted us to take into account further information he sent 
us in support of what he told us about his financial situation and the impact of these 
loans on his health.
Two more adjudicators have considered Mr Ks complaint further after he sent us 
additional bank statements in support of his complaint. They both endorsed the view 
previously issued and didnt think that Ferratum needed to do more than take the steps it 
had previously offered to do in respect of loans 5 - 7 to put things right for Mr K.
Mr K stills feels that a fair resolution would be to remove all loans and negative impact from 
his credit file and he believes that he has provided enough information to support this.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked at the 
complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicators. Ill explain my reasons.  
Ferratum provided Mr K with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Ferratum 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Ferratum was required to carry 
out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for 
Mr K before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ks complaint. 
As Ferratum has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loans 5 - 7 
and to amend Mr Ks credit file by removing these loans from his credit file, I havent 
considered these loans further as there is nothing more I would direct Ferratum to do in this 
situation. So I dont need to say more about these loans. If Ferratum hasnt yet paid Mr K as 
it has offered to do, because it is still awaiting bank details from Mr K, I would urge Mr K to provide this information to Ferratum so it can arrange the refund to his account. I understand 
it has already removed the history of loans 5 - 7 from his credit file. 
Thinking about loans 1 - 4, Ferratum says it relied on information Mr K provided about his 
monthly income and did its own background checks and also relied on information obtained 
from a credit reference agency. All this resulted in Ferratum being satisfied that the 
information it had about Mr K showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become difficult for 
him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Ferratum, at this early stage, Mr K didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Ferratum to any underlying money problems. The 
information Ferratum had gathered about Mr Ks finances suggested that he shouldve been 
able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable income 
according to the figures Mr K had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr K provided or the other information 
Ferratum had recorded, which meant that Ferratum shouldve taken more steps to check the 
information Mr K had declared. It was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks 
were enough for Ferratum to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr K took out the second loan within a few weeks of paying loan 1. But I dont 
think this was enough to make Ferratum think that Mr K was becoming increasingly indebted 
or struggling with being over stretched financially  especially bearing in mind that he 
borrowed a substantially smaller loan this time.
Mr Ks circumstances were broadly unchanged and loan 2 looked to be comfortably 
affordable for Mr K. He hadnt shown Ferratum any signs that he was finding it hard to pay 
for his borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Ferratum had collected, 
seem to support Ferratums lending decision. There wasnt enough in the credit check 
information that Ferratum could see that I think wouldve made it realise that he couldnt 
afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. So I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about loan 2.
loan3
Mr K didnt give any indication to Ferratum that hed had any problems paying for loan 2. 
Although he now applied to borrow a larger loan than the one he had previously repaid, the 
loan repayments still looked comfortably affordable for Mr K on the basis of the information 
he had declared and the background checks Ferratum relied on. 
And I think it was too soon for Ferratum reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr K was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
So I cant fairly say that I have identified any fair reasons to uphold Mr Ks complaint that 
Ferratum shouldnt have provided loan 3.
loan 4 
Mr K was now seeking to borrow the same amount he had first borrowed from Ferratum 
some 6 months or so earlier. 
Also, Ferratums credit checks showed that he already had another active short-term loan. I think its fair to say that these were potentially early warning signs that Mr Ks financial 
situation hadnt improved, despite the loans Ferratum had provided. 
So although the information Ferratum gathered for this loan suggested that it should be 
affordable for Mr K, Ferratum still needed to think carefully about whether it was fair to lend 
loan 4 to Mr K. But I dont think these things were enough on their own to have made a 
responsible lender realise that this loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mr K.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
Taking things as a whole, I think it was reasonable for Ferratum to consider that paying for 
this loan shouldve been affordable for Mr K, looking at the information it gathered overall 
when he applied for this loan and that it made a fair lending decision when it provided the 
loan. So I cant fairly uphold Mr Ks complaint about loan 4. 
I appreciate that Mr K feels that Ferratum didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done 
before agreeing to lend to him. But at this stage of the lending relationship and given the 
loan amounts for loans 1 - 4, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Ferratum 
to ask Mr K to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what 
he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I dont think Ferratum did anything wrong when it made its lending decisions for loans 1  4 
based on the information it had at the time. 
A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. 
So, this may explain any differences between credit information it saw and Mr Ks actual 
financial situation at the time. 
Im very sorry that Mr K found paying for all these loans difficult. I accept that Mr Ks financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Ferratum obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Ferratum did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Mr K. 
I would just mention that Ferratum has confirmed it has reported no negative information 
about loans 1 -4 to his credit file. I hope this puts Mr Ks mind at rest on this point.  
I understand that my decision is going to disappoint Mr K but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. If Mr K is still in a 
position where he would like help to manage his finances theres more information about 
how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor loans 5 - 7, if it hasnt already, Ferratum UK limited should take the steps it has offered 
to do to put things right if Mr K provides his bank details to enable this to happen. But for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans 1 - 4.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman