DRN-1299018
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that the three loans she was approved for by Valour Finance Limited 
(Valour) were lent irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Using information from Valour a brief loan table is here. Loans 1 and 2 were instalment loans 
for 12 months and Loan 2 was for 18 months. Loan 1 was repaid early. Loan 2 had a 
balance on it of about £417 when Miss H applied for Loan 3 and that balance was cleared 
with the Loan 3 funds.
Loan Approved Amount Repayment rate
(rounded)Repaid
1 12 March 2015 £750 £125 a month 13 May 2015
2 8 July 2015 £500 £83 11 February 2016
3 11 February 2016 £750 £69 outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Valour should put things 
right for Miss H in relation to Loan 3. Valour disagreed and so its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending of this type - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Valour needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Valour should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include: 
where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are particularly high; 
and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a customer has 
been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
Valour was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Since our adjudicator wrote her opinion, Valour did not agree with that recommendation and 
Miss H has not disagreed. So, I do not plan to review Loans 1 and 2 as they appear not to 
be in dispute. 
Turning to Loan 3, this was the third loan asked for within a year, and Loan 2 remained 
outstanding when Miss H was reapplying for the larger amount for Loan 3, and I think that a 
full financial review would have been the proportionate approach by Valour before approving 
any further loan application made by Miss H. The third loan was going to extend her 
indebtedness for a longer period: 18 months. 
I have read Valours explanations as to what it did in the way of checks before approving this 
loan. Valour says it did enough. We asked Valour for the credit search results it carried out 
before Loan 3. A later set of results have been sent with an explanation from Valour that the 
later credit search overwrote the earlier search. So, the credit search results I have cover the 
period going back to when Loan 3 was approved, but is not exactly what Valour would have 
had at the time. It shows that a few months after Loan 3 was approved Miss H had a great 
deal of outstanding debt and it looks to have been long term debt.  
I have listened to the recorded call between one of Valours representatives and Miss H in 
February 2016. But the call demonstrates to me that there were anomalies in Miss Hs 
explanations about her financial situation which I think ought to have prompted additional 
checks and questions. And listening to it I think that Miss Hs answers did not really provide 
satisfactory explanations. Miss H said that she had cleared all her debts, but then when the 
representative went on to ask her about some debts and loans, Miss Hs explanation 
included reference to fraudulent transactions, and she was going to court to sort them out. 
Having mentioned this in relation to the first loan application as well, it may have required 
additional investigation. 
The representative asked for additional copy documents to verify some aspects such as 
Miss Hs income but could have asked for more. Often looking at an applicants bank 
statements can be a convenient way to do a full financial review. 
So, I have looked at Miss Hs bank statements around the time that she applied for Loan 3 to 
see what Valour would have seen if it had carried out the proportionate checks I think it 
ought to have done. Valour would have seen multiple payments to other lenders and 
extensive gambling transactions. In the circumstances I do think that Loan 3 ought not to 
have been approved and Miss H has lost out by having to pay interests and charges on that 
loan because it was approved. I uphold the complaint in relation to Loan 3.  
Putting things right
There is an outstanding balance for Loan 3 and so Valour should:remove unpaid interests and charges and attribute all payments made to Loan 3 by 
Miss H as if made to reduce the principal balance;
if there is a surplus amount due to Miss H then Valour needs to pay interest of 8% 
simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid (if 
they were) to the date of settlement;
if there remains a balance for Miss H to pay then as she has said she is in a debt 
management plan I remind Valour of the need to approach this debt with Miss H in a 
positive and sympathetic manner and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan; 
remove any negative payment information about Loan 3 from Miss Hs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and Valour Finance Limited 
should do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman