DRN-3685044
The complaint
Mr K complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) treated him unfairly, causing 
him to have to transfer his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to another provider. And 
that IISL then caused delays to the transfer process causing him lost investment returns.
What happened
Mr K had a SIPP with Firm A that hed moved his pension into in 2017. In 2019 Interactive 
Investor acquired Firm A and in October 2019 Mr Ks pension plan was moved to an IISL 
SIPP.
Mr Ks SIPP fund had been held in cash. Mr K explains that, in January 2020, he wanted to 
start investing his fund. And met with his IFA to discuss that. His IISL SIPP didnt allow direct 
IFA access, so investments couldnt be made in the way that Mr K wanted.
Mr K started the process of switching to a different SIPP provider (Firm B), via his IFA. The 
IFA sent a letter of authority and questionnaire to IISL in order to obtain the SIPP scheme 
information it needed. The IFA called IISL a number of times from early March 2020 to 
16 April 2020 to chase the information required.
The pension transfer request was received by Interactive Investor via the Origo Options  an 
online transfer system  on 4 May 2020. The transfer to the new SIPP, with Firm B, 
completed on 4 June 2020.
Mr K, via his IFA, complained to Interactive Investor about the delay in responding with the 
information needed. IISL upheld Mr Ks complaint identifying several service failings. 
Including that it ought to have responded to the request for information sooner. It offered 
Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience that the mistakes caused.
In October 2020 Mr K complained again to IISL. He complained that it misinformed 
customers about the transition to its SIPP after the take-over of Firm A. And a further 
complaint about the administrative failures on his policy. He remained unhappy that the 
pension switch had taken so long and explained that delayed his being able to invest his 
pension fund. Mr K thought that IISL caused delays meaning that the switch to his chosen 
SIPP provider took 13 weeks. He thought it should have been completed in a matter of days. 
IISL investigated Mr Ks complaint. It explained that it had never offered the option of IFA 
access on Mr Ks SIPP and it hadnt informed him that would be the case. IISL didnt agree 
that it caused an unreasonable delay. It explained that Mr K was always able to make trades 
within his SIPP, even though the SIPP didnt allow his IFA to do so independently.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think that Mr K had been 
unfairly treated with the transferal of his earlier SIPP to the IISL product after it took over the 
previous companys business. But thought that IISL caused unreasonable delays that 
prevented the switch from its SIPP to Firm B.  
Neither Mr K or IISL agreed with the investigators opinion and requested that the case be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. I looked into what happened and issued a provisional decision 
to both sides. In it I explained my view as follows:
- I didnt agree that Mr K had been made to transfer because of the way that IISL 
handled the take over of Mr Ks pension policy. And I explained why that meant I 
wasnt holding IISL responsible for the overall timescale for the transfer that Mr K 
wanted.
- I was of the opinion that IISL had made mistakes that caused delays which were 
unreasonable. I referred to failures to respond to reasonable information requests in 
a timely way. I calculated that IISL contributed to delays that accounted for 15 
working days.
- I thought that the delays IISL caused had the likely effect of causing Mr Ks entire 
investment strategy to be implemented 15 working days later than it would have. And 
proposed a way for IISL to put that right.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision. He disagreed with my findings, ultimately 
disagreeing with the fundamental point that IISLs actions had made him have to transfer. He 
also responded to explain that he didnt agree that IISL had acted quickly enough in 
implementing the transfer once the Origo request had been received. Mr K provided me with 
the acknowledgement emails that IISL sent in which IISL said that a cash only transfer could 
take up to three weeks. And Mr K argued that it was unreasonable for it to have taken longer 
than that without explanation.
In light of that information, I reconsidered my provisional decision. I contacted both parties to 
explain that I thought that the email meant that the upper limit for the transfer to complete, 
following the Origo request, was three weeks. Which meant that my provisional finding 
changed to reflect a further delay that needed to be accounted for. I explained that I 
considered IISL were most likely responsible for a delay of 22 working days instead. And I 
amended my proposed means of putting things right to reflect that.
Mr K responded to agree with my amended provisional finding. IISL didnt comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have had the chance to consider my thoughts on this case and respond. In light 
of the response I have received, I changed my mind from my initial provisional finding. Both 
sides have had the opportunity to consider that amendment. I think that Mr Ks complaint 
should, in part be upheld. I will explain my reasons as follows.
Causing Mr K to transfer his SIPP
Ill start by addressing what was at the heart of Mr Ks complaint. Ive considered everything 
that Mr K had to say on this subject including the detailed response he provided to my initial 
provisional decision. Its clear to me that he wasnt happy with the SIPP product that he was 
in with IISL. It wasnt the SIPP product that he chose initially. He ended up with the IISL 
SIPP as a consequence of IISL taking over the business of the SIPP provider he was with.
Ive looked at the correspondence that both sides have shown us from the time. And, for 
very similar reasons to our investigator, I dont think that IISL treated Mr K unfairly. I 
understand that Mr K expected that his IFA would be able to access his SIPP and make trades on his behalf. But the IISL SIPP didnt allow that facility. And it is a matter for IISL 
what terms it offers its SIPP under. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr K was ever told or lead to believe that he would be able to use 
his SIPP in that way. Ive noted Mr Ks comments regarding the correspondence he received 
at the time. It was generic correspondence sent to all customers affected by the transfer. It 
didnt promise IFA access. And it didnt list all features of the SIPP. But it did provide 
hyperlinks to the IISL SIPP terms and conditions. As well as the opportunity to have any 
questions addressed.
Mr K was clearly affected by the takeover of the pension business by IISL. As were all 
customers affected by that takeover process. But a transfer of business like that has to 
undergo scrutiny from the regulator. Ive seen no evidence that IISL acted improperly in the 
takeover. So I dont think that IISL treated Mr K unfairly in the acquisition. But it did leave 
Mr K with a choice to make. Which was whether to allow his pension to switch to the IISL 
option, or to independently seek a pension product that suited his needs. He could have 
sought financial advice over that decision, but I dont think that IISL were responsible for 
advising him on whether its SIPP suited his objectives.
The emails that Mr K received prior to the move to the IISL SIPP gave him notice. And 
highlighted three important steps. The first was to read the IISL terms and conditions. And 
the email provided a hyperlink that made that easier. And the subsequent update informed 
Mr K that copies of those important documents had been added to Mr Ks online account 
with his former provider. I also think that the content of the email made it clear that the terms 
and conditions of the IISL SIPP may be different. 
I dont think its reasonable to infer that IISL misled Mr K into thinking that his new SIPP 
would provide exactly the same facilities as the one it was replacing. And provided fair notice 
and adequate information to enable Mr K to find those things out if specific features were so 
important to him. 
I understand Mr Ks frustration at having to transfer at all. But IISL havent treated him 
unfairly by its decision not to allow IFA access to its platform in the way he wanted. The 
information was available for him to determine how the SIPP worked prior to migrating to the 
IISL SIPP. Had he done so hed most likely have been able to move to a new SIPP ahead of 
his decision to start investing his pension fund.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this part of Mr Ks complaint. So it follows that I dont 
agree that IISL are responsible for the impact of Mr Ks pension fund being disinvested from 
the point at which he decided he wanted his funds invested. 
Delayed transfer
Ive gone on to look at the service that Mr K received from IISL when he wanted to transfer 
his SIPP. And here I think that IISL let Mr K down in the service that it provided. IISL has 
acknowledged that it caused a delay, but I dont think it fairly recognised the impact of that 
delay. As Ill explain.
Ive considered the impact of Mr Ks funds being in cash whilst the switch was processed. 
But I cant say that was IISLs fault. Although it may not have allowed the IFA independent 
access, it did allow for investments to be made by Mr K on its platform. It may not have been in Mr Ks preferred way, but I cant say that he was unable to invest in line with his IFAs 
advice as soon as he wished.
I therefore think that Mr K could have decided to invest within his IISL SIPP and then transfer 
in specie  with his funds already invested. I understand that Mr K has said that he wasnt 
aware of that option. But he was represented by an IFA, who was likely aware of the options 
available to Mr K. But, Mr K was equally entitled to switch his SIPP first as cash. It may have 
meant that the transfer happened more quickly. But it meant that Mr K was exposed to the 
risk of his fund being disinvested for the time it took to make the switch. The consequences 
of that choice werent the fault of IISL providing it acted promptly in facilitating the transfer.
Ive looked at the service that IISL provided Mr K. And I think that IISL caused unreasonable 
delays. Mr K provided his IFA with a letter of authority to contact IISL on his behalf and 
obtain the information needed to be able to instigate a pension switch. 
IISL confirmed on the phone to Mr Ks IFA that it had the request for information and the 
letter of authority by 9 March 2020. IISL further acknowledge that it confirmed to the IFA, on 
26 March 2020 that it had the information ready to post as of 19 March 2020. And its agreed 
that on 26 March 2020 the IFA asked that the information be emailed to him. 
So on 26 March 2020, the information required had been ready to send for six days. And 
only needed to be emailed. By 1 April 2020 it had still not been received. And Mr Ks IFA 
called IISL to chase the response. And according to IISL, the IFA was told that the 
information would be sent that day.
Im aware that, at that time firms were adjusting working practices because of restrictions 
caused by covid 19. And IISL had also informed Mr Ks IFA that it had a backlog of requests 
due to the approaching end of the tax year. Ive considered these things and accept that the 
four working days from being asked to email the information on 26 March 2020 to the IFA 
calling to chase on 1 April 2020 was not unreasonable. But in agreeing to email it that day, I 
dont think that it was reasonable not to have done so. 
Mr Ks IFA called to request the information again on 6, 14,15,16,17 April, before 
complaining on Mr Ks behalf. The information was received on 24 April 2020. Which was 23 
days, or 15 working days later than it should have been received. And was, I think, caused 
directly by the poor service Mr K received from IISL.
Ive considered the impact of that delay. It seems that the application to transfer followed 
very quickly following receipt of the information that Mr Ks IFA requested. IISL received a 
request through Origo on 4 May 2020. IISL couldnt have acted to transfer Mr Ks SIPP funds 
without receiving that. But, if IISL hadnt delayed in response to Mr Ks request for 
information, its more likely than not, that it would have had the Origo transfer request 15 
working days earlier.
Following receipt of the transfer request, the transfer completed by 4 June 2020. Mr K 
responded to my provisional decision by providing additional evidence in the form of 
correspondence that he received from IISL following the Origo transfer request.
The email that Mr K received from IISL was dated 5 May 2020 and It updated him that the 
transfer request had been received. It had a section titled how long will it take. And 
explained that cash transfers could take up to three weeks. Which not only gave Mr K an 
expectation, it promised a standard of service. Which IISL failed to deliver.
The transfer completed on 4 June 2020. Which was 22 working days. I accept Mr Ks view 
that it should have only taken three weeks (15 working days). So I conclude that there is a 
further delay of seven working days that IISL caused. Which should also be factored into the time that Mr Ks pension was unnecessarily out of the market. 
In summary, I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in part. IISL effectively caused a total delay of 
22 working days to the transfer. If it wasnt for that, I think its more likely than not that the 
whole transfer process would have been completed around 22 working days sooner.
Putting things right
My aim is to try to put Mr K, as close as possible, into the position he might have been but 
for IISLs mistake. Which means, determining what would most likely have happened if the 
money had been available 22 working days earlier than it was. 
Mr K has been unable to provide me with any documented financial advice he received 
regarding his intended investments. He explains that he would have invested the entire fund 
in March 2020 when share prices were depressed following the stock market downturn at 
that time. But I havent identified that failings by IISL account for that amount of delay. In 
March, when Mr K says he wanted to invest, IISL had yet to receive the Origo transfer 
request. Mr Ks pension was still in the SIPP with IISL, where Mr K was still able to make 
investments. Either of his choosing, or under the advisement of his IFA. So I dont think that I 
can fairly say that IISLs mistake caused Mr K to be unable to invest at the markets lowest 
point.
The investments selected were identical on each of the three investment tranches made a 
month apart. Whilst market conditions would have been different 22 working days earlier, so 
too were the conditions over the two month period when investments were placed. And no 
alteration was made to the investment choices. So, for the purpose of determining whether 
Mr K suffered a loss, it seems more likely than not that Mr Ks fund would have been 
invested in the same way, that is in three equal tranches each a month apart, only 22 
working days sooner.
For these reasons, I think that Mr K would most likely have invested in the following way if 
IISL hadnt caused the delay.
- I think that the initial tranche of investments would have been invested in the same 
way only at the prices available 22 working days sooner. So on Friday 8 May 2020.
- The second tranche of investments would have been made 22 working days prior to 
10 July 2020. So, on Wednesday 10 June 2020.
- The third tranche of investments would have been made 22 working days prior to 
10 August 2020. So, on Thursday 9 July 2020.
Any loss Mr K has suffered should be determined as follows:
Obtain the notional value of the pension on 10 August 2020, on the basis that it had 
been invested in the same funds on the earlier dates that Ive set out above. And 
subtracting the actual value of the pension on 10 August 2020 from this notional 
value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. If its 
positive that loss is the notional investment loss on the pension at 10 August 2020.
Determine the overall investment returns on Mr Ks SIPP, from 10 August to the date 
that IISL is notified of Mr Ks acceptance of my final decision, allowing for the effect of 
any contributions or withdrawals.Apply these overall investment returns to the notional investment loss to determine 
the overall compensation due to Mr K.
If IISL is unable to calculate the notional value based on the actual investments made, or is 
unable to obtain the actual SIPP fund returns (from 10 August 2020 until the date its notified 
of acceptance of my final decision) from the SIPP provider or Mr K, IISL will need to 
determine fair returns using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index. This index is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly 
UK equities and government bonds. I consider that its a fair measure for Mr K, who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Mr K had already taken his tax free 
cash from this pension, so the entire remaining fund would be subject to income tax at his 
marginal rate. Presumed to be 20%.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of IISL receiving Mr Ks acceptance 
of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IISL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. IISL should give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
IISL have already paid Mr K £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays that it identified. Which are essentially the same delays Ive considered 
here. Ive considered the impact of these delays on Mr K, and whilst I can see that he has 
been caused upset by the transfer, I think thats mostly because of his view that he should 
never have been in the position of having to transfer at all. Which I dont agree was IISLs 
fault. For the impact of the delays that Ive upheld this complaint for, I think that the 
compensation already paid reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. Any financial 
loss can be put right, and Im not aware that it has had a bearing on Mr Ks retirement plans. 
So I dont intend to ask IISL to pay a further award for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited 
must compensate Mr K in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman