The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited trading as Slater Gordon 
Solutions Motor (SGS) asked him to pay for costs theyd incurred after hed had a road traffic 
accident he said wasnt his fault.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr A said he was involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt his fault. He 
said while he was stationary at a give way sign he was hit from behind by another car. The 
car that hit him was said to be travelling at 40mph. Mr A didnt make a claim against his 
motor insurance policy but used the services of SGS, an accident management company 
(AMC).
SGS arranged for Mr As car to be repaired. And for him to have the use of a hire car while 
his car was being repaired. They looked to claim these costs back form the third party 
insurer (TPI). But the TPI didnt accept liability for the accident. They said Mr A had given 
false and mis-leading information about what had happened.
SGS asked Mr A to pay the costs that had been incurred. Mr A wasnt happy with SGS 
response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said SGS has looked to recover the costs from the TPI. And hadnt done 
anything wrong by asking Mr A to pay these costs as the TPI didnt accept liability.
Mr A didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why. It isnt our role to consider 
who was at fault for the accident or to investigate the accident claim. But to look to see 
whether SGS has acted fairly and reasonably in handling Mr As claim.
SGS as an AMC aim to provide their customers with a hire car, if needed. And arrange for 
the damaged vehicle to be repaired, or determine the pre accident value of the vehicle if it is 
beyond repair. They would then look to recover the costs back from the TPI. SGS has a 
responsibility to mitigate the costs of handling a claim as the TPI could reject payment if they 
thought the costs werent valid.
The TPI will act on behalf of their policyholders interests . As they have done in this case 
and will challenge liability or validity of the claim.
DRN-1714443When Mr A agreed to accept SGS services, he would have been asked for his account of 
what had happened to cause the accident. And based on this information SGS would have 
determined the likelihood of Mr A being responsible for the accident. Mr A said he was hit 
from behind by another car. In accidents such as this, it is generally accepted that the car in 
front isnt to blame. So, I can understand SGS providing Mr A with their services on the basis 
that Mr A wasnt at fault for the accident. 
SGS arranged the use of a hire car for Mr A, instructed an independent engineer to assess 
the damage caused to his car. And arranged for Mr As damaged car to be repaired. SGS 
would have done this with the expectation of recovering these costs back from the TPI.
But the TPI didnt accept Mr As version of events and raised doubt about the incident. The 
car that hit Mr A was hired from the TPIs policyholder, and their policyholders version of 
events disputed what Mr A and the other driver had said. So, SGS couldnt claim back the 
costs that had so far been incurred from the TPI.
And Mr A in agreeing to use SGS services would have had been made aware that if the TPI 
didnt accept liability and SGS couldnt claim back the costs incurred. The responsibility for 
these would fall to him. And the invoice SGS sent to Mr A was a breakdown of these costs.
So I cant say SGS has done anything wrong by asking Mr A to pay the costs for the 
provision of a hire car, the independent engineers report, the repairs done to his damaged 
car, and the storage and recovery charges that SGS had also incurred.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman