DRN-2928658
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to provide him with sufficient information 
about the necessity to pay a special final premium to his pension savings in order to 
maximise their value.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in his retirement plans by a financial advisor. I will make reference to 
that relationship later in this decision, but for ease, I will generally refer to all communications 
with Scottish Widows as being from, and to, Mr B himself.
Mr B opened a pension plan with Scottish Widows in May 1992. That policy set a retirement 
date of Mr Bs 60th birthday in February 2020. When it was incepted the pension plan was 
based on with-profits investments and benefitted from a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). 
In 1999 Scottish Widows altered the basis on which the pension benefits were accrued, so 
new contributions after that date no longer benefitted from the GAR.
As Mr B approached his planned retirement date he requested some information about the 
benefits he was entitled to take. I can see that Scottish Widows issued a number of 
quotations to him on 8 January 2020. And similar quotations were sent by email to Mr Bs 
financial advisor around two weeks later.
The quotations that Scottish Widows issued were based on a presumption that Mr B would 
pay a special final premium of £600. That premium was due on 1 February, but 
Scottish Widows said it needed to be received by 28 February at the latest. Mr B failed to 
make that payment to Scottish Widows before he put his retirement benefits into payment.
Scottish Widows received Mr Bs completed retirement application form on 6 March. He 
confirmed that he wished to take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise 
known as tax free cash) and an annuity taking advantage of the GAR. On 12 March 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr B to advise him that, since the special final premium hadnt 
been paid, the value of his retirement benefits would be less than the quotation it had sent. 
The PCLS was reduced by around £220 and the annuity would be reduced by approximately 
£270 per annum.
Mr B was understandably unhappy with that information and asked Scottish Widows if the 
annuity could be reversed and the special final premium paid. Scottish Widows explained 
that wouldnt be possible since the PCLS had already been issued. But Scottish Widows 
faced some problems dealing with the complaint  it sent various responses to either Mr B or 
the financial advisor, and appears to have duplicated the complaint. So in recognition of the 
trouble and upset this would have caused to Mr B it offered him £100, and later increased 
that offer to £125. Mr B didnt accept Scottish Widows offer and brought his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information Scottish Widows had provided to Mr B about the need to pay the special final 
premium had been sufficiently clear. And whilst he could see there had been some 
confusion in the way that Scottish Widows had dealt with the complaint he thought the 
payment that Scottish Widows had offered had been fair. So the investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
My normal starting point for considering complaints of this nature is to look at the terms and 
conditions that govern the pension plan. I entirely accept what Mr B had said here  that he 
agreed to take the pension plan more than thirty years ago, and so no longer recalls the finer 
details of the policy after such a length of time. That is understandable, but doesnt mean 
I should disregard what those terms say.
In relation to the matters I am considering here, the terms said;
If recurring premiums are payable monthly a special final premium will be payable 
on the due date immediately prior to entry on pension on the original pension date 
(the deferred date if entry on pension has been deferred). The amount of the special 
premium will be equal to the monthly recurring premium multiplied by the number of 
months between that due date and the immediately following anniversary of the date 
of entry.
Mr B started his pension plan in May 1992. So there are three months between his pension 
date and the anniversary date. His regular monthly premium was £200. So it seems in 
accordance with the terms of the plan that Scottish Widows should reasonably expect a final 
contribution of £600 to be made by Mr B before all the plan benefits are made available to 
him. And, should that payment not be made, it seems reasonable for Scottish Widows to 
reduce the benefits due to Mr B.
So, at the outset of their relationship, I think Scottish Widows made it clear that a final 
premium would need to be paid. But, as I said earlier, that was many years ago and it is 
unlikely that many consumers would either read the policy terms in sufficient detail, and certainly unlikely that they would remember those terms when approaching retirement. So 
I do think it was incumbent on Scottish Widows to do more, to bring that requirement to 
Mr Bs attention as he approached retirement.
And I think that statement is supported by the expectations of the FCA  Scottish Widows 
regulator. The FCA has said that in terms of treating customers fairly it would expect 
consumers to be provided with clear information and kept appropriately informed before, 
during, and after the point of sale. So Ill now go on to consider what Scottish Widows did 
more recently to remind Mr B about the payment of the final premium.
In the lead up to his planned retirement date Scottish Widows wrote to Mr B, and/or his 
financial advisor, on a number of occasions. Whilst the initial letters reminded Mr B of the 
importance of the guaranteed benefits he had on his policy (in the form of the GAR) they 
didnt provide any reminder about the forthcoming need to pay the final premium. But Im not 
persuaded that would have been appropriate. At that time Mr B would still have been paying 
normal premiums and it was still some time before the final premium would need to be paid. 
If Mr B had decided to delay his retirement, any final premium might not have become due 
for some time.
So I think it was appropriate that Scottish Widows didnt provide further information about the 
final premium until it was actively discussing Mr Bs firm retirement plans with him. And 
I think that point was reached in January 2020 when Mr B requested quotations showing his 
retirement benefits if they were taken around his 60th birthday.
As I said earlier, Scottish Widows sent a number of different quotations to Mr B and his 
financial advisor on 8 January 2020. It seems the copies sent to the financial advisor were 
not received so Scottish Widows sent further copies of those quotations to Mr Bs 
financial advisor by email around two weeks later. On each of the quotations, in a section 
headed Important Notes was the following text;
This quotation assumes that a special final premium of £600.00 due on 1 February 
2020 will be paid for this policy
And that information was repeated in the text of a letter Scottish Widows sent to Mr B at the 
same time. The letter reminded Mr B about the special final premium and provided the 
details about how the payment could be made.
So I think that that the reminders that Scottish Widows included on the quotations and letter 
are sufficient for me to consider it met its regulatory responsibilities to provide Mr B with 
sufficiently clear information about the need to pay the final premium in order to receive the 
retirement benefits shown on the quotation.
Mr B has said that he considers the information about the date the final premium should be 
paid to be confusing. Scottish Widows said the premium was due on 1 February, but that it 
should be paid before Mr Bs retirement date. Whilst those two dates are obviously different, 
I dont think what Scottish Widows said was misleading. The payment was due on 
1 February, but it seems Scottish Widows would allow a grace period for the payment to be 
added to the policy leading up to the actual date of retirement. 
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. As he has pointed out it would 
have been clearly financially advantageous to him if the final premium had been paid. But 
I cannot reasonably conclude that his failure to make that payment was as a result of 
something that Scottish Widows did wrong. It provided Mr B with sufficient information about 
the need to make the payment at an appropriate time of his retirement journey.I note that Scottish Widows has offered Mr B some compensation for the manner in which it 
handled his complaint. I dont think those failings had any impacts on the matter I am 
considering here  by that time the annuity had already been put into payment and Mr B had 
lost the opportunity to pay the final premium. So I dont think it appropriate to consider how 
the complaint was handled as part of this decision. But I do note that Scottish Widows said 
its compensation offer would remain open to Mr B to accept after we had concluded our 
investigations. So Mr B should contact Scottish Widows direct if he now wishes to accept 
that offer of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman