DRN-1998230
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in September 2005 in connection with a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
BMW says that the policy was not active within the FCAs eligible time frame.
This complaint was considered by our adjudicator, who explained that we do have the power 
to look at this complaint as BMW was regulated to sell insurance at the time of sale.
BMW disagrees with the adjudicators view so the case has come to me to make a 
jurisdiction decision.
My decision will only be considering whether we have the power to look at Mr Hs case. I 
wont be looking at whether or not the complaint should be upheld.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am able to consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-
handling rules, which are found in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook (available online).
The event that Mr H has complained about is insurance intermediation, that is, the 
marketing, advising and selling of insurance, etc. This became a regulated activity on 14 
January 2005. 
This sale took place in August 2005 and our powers at that time therefore applied to the 
activity of marketing, advising on, or selling insurance by a regulated firm.
BMW was subject to our compulsory jurisdiction at the time of sale. 
I am able to consider complaints which fall within my jurisdiction under the case-handling 
rules which I must apply. This sale took place after the regulation of insurance mediation 
activities (January 2005) and whilst BMW was subject to our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Therefore this service is able to look into Mr Hs complaint.
My decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that this service does have the power to look 
into Mr Hs complaint about his PPI policy because it does fall within my jurisdiction.
Now Ive made my decision, the adjudicator can look into the merits of Mr Hs complaint.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman