DRN-3220442
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have refused to 
refund three months of insurance premiums to him, following a successful claim he made on 
his policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Admiral in March 2020, with cover 
starting in April 2020. 
On 8 January 2021, he was involved in a road accident which resulted in his vehicle being 
written off. The claim was settled in full by Admiral, after deducting the total policy excess of 
£500. The policy was then cancelled by Admiral with effect from 26 January 2021. As the 
original policy term ran until April 2021, Mr M believes hes due a refund of premiums for 
February, March and April. 
On 3 February 2021, Mr M complained to Admiral about what he referred to as the 
withholding of 3 full months of his remaining Insurance Premium. He also complained about 
conflicting information he was given by the claim handler, in relation to the refund of 
premiums. On 12 February 2021, Admiral issued their final response letter to Mr M, not 
upholding his complaint. 
Unhappy with the way Admiral handled the matter, Mr M brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had gone on but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
concluded that because Mr M had made a successful claim under the policy, he wasnt 
entitled to any pro-rata refund of the premium paid.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I have to decide is whether, under the terms of Mr Ms agreement with Admiral its 
reasonable for Admiral to decline to refund three months of premiums on his policy. I have 
carefully reviewed everything that has been said and the information Mr M and Admiral have 
provided. Having done so, Im satisfied that Admirals decision not to refund the premiums is 
in accordance with the terms Mr M agreed to when he took out his policy. Ive set out the 
relevant terms below.
In paragraph 4 of the General Conditions of the policy it says:
If you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of insurance for your 
vehicle, your vehicles part of the premium is due, and no refund will be given.
Should your vehicle be stolen and/or deemed a total loss, we will cancel your policy without 
prior notice by writing to your last known address.
Ive next gone on to consider whether this has created an unfair outcome for Mr M and Ive 
not been persuaded that it has. I say this because despite the fact that Mr Ms policy was 
eventually cancelled, he did have the benefit of the policy by making a successful claim. He 
is therefore responsible for payment of all of the premiums and isnt entitled to any refund 
under the policy terms and conditions.
I note that Admiral did make an error in telling Mr M hed receive a refund of £6.32. However, 
that error doesnt alter the fact that Mr M was not due any refund of premium following a 
successful claim. I appreciate however, that this may have initially caused some confusion.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly in declining to refund 
three months of premiums to Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman