DRN-3075240
The complaint
Miss B complains about the repairs carried out to her vehicle under a car insurance policy 
she has with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
Any reference I make to Aviva in this decision also includes its agents.
Miss B is being represented in bringing this complaint. Any reference I make to Miss B also 
includes her representative. 
What happened
On 25 December 2020, Miss B was involved in a collision which caused damage to her car. 
Miss B contacted Aviva who arranged for repairs to be carried out to the car.
Miss B says she isnt happy with the repairs. She says that since she got the car back, there 
have been a number of issues. These include headlight error, mis-match in the colour of the 
paintwork, steering problems and the car keeps cutting out and turning off while driving.
Miss B got in touch with Aviva to let it know about the issues she was having. Aviva 
arranged for the car to be picked up and taken to a garage to be looked at again. 
The garage didnt find that the issues Miss B had described were related to the incident from 
December 2020, and so it returned the car back to her without carrying out any additional 
repair work.
Aviva responded to Miss Bs complaint to say that it didnt uphold her complaint. It reiterated 
that it didnt think the faults with Miss Bs car were as a result of the incident, or the repairs 
carried out by the garage. But it said that if Miss B wanted to get a report from a dealer, that 
confirms the faults were as a result of the garage or the incident, then it would look into the 
situation again.
Miss B remained unhappy with this response. She says shes lost out because she doesnt 
have a roadworthy car. She hasnt been provided with a courtesy car. And she has been 
fobbed off by Aviva.
To put things right, Miss B would like the car to be written off, and she would like to keep the 
salvage for free. She would like a refund in the excess paid as she didnt authorise the 
repairs and a refund in the difference in premiums of insuring different cars. Finally, shed 
also like a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
explained that Miss Bs car had been looked at by an engineer who stated that the faults 
werent caused by the initial incident. And they thought that it was fair of Aviva to have relied 
on the opinion of the engineer when coming to its decision not to authorise additional 
repairs. The investigator explained that an excess is normally payable when a claim is made, 
regardless of the incident. And they explained that the policy doesnt cover Miss B for the 
use of a courtesy car or pay out for loss of use of her car while it is being repaired. The 
investigator found that Aviva had treated Miss B fairly when dealing with her claim.
Miss B didnt agree. She said that she didnt ever authorise the repairs to be carried out by 
Avivas repairers  and her right to have her car repaired by her own garage was removed.
Because Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Both parties have sent this service a lot of 
information for me to consider during the course of their complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Miss B is unhappy with the repairs that were carried out on 
her car  and she says it now isnt in a roadworthy state. So, I can understand why shes 
unhappy. I can also see that shes unhappy that she says she didnt have the opportunity to 
use her own repairer. And she wasnt provided with a courtesy car while her car was initially 
in for repairs.
Repairs
When Aviva were notified of Miss Bs dissatisfaction with the repairs, it agreed to take the 
car back and have an engineer look at it  something I would have expected it to do in these 
circumstances. 
The engineer said that they thought the paint work had been carried out to a good standard 
 however there was a colour mis-match on the wing mirror where a previous repair had 
been carried out. Ive looked at photos of the car, and I cant see any issues with the 
paintwork, other than the part mentioned by the engineer relating to the previous repair. I 
wouldnt expect Aviva to remedy previous poor repair work, so I cant see that it has done 
anything wrong here. 
The car was taken to a dealership where it was reviewed and was road tested. The engineer 
thought that the issues with the headlights were down to an issue with the auto light sensor 
that had been caused by a previous windscreen replacement. And they couldnt link the fault 
to the December 2020 incident. I appreciate Miss B says she hadnt had her windscreen 
replaced, but Miss B also hadnt had the car for very long prior to the incident, and so its 
unlikely she would have been fully informed of the cars repair history. So I see no reason to 
depart from the findings of the engineer on this point. 
When they road tested the car, it did cut out, as had been reported by Miss B. The garage 
ran tests on the car that didnt show any faults. The car was low on petrol at the time, and so 
the engineer found that the car cutting out was likely to be as a result of low fuel, and not 
anything that was caused by the incident or the previous repairs. Once the engineer topped 
the car up with petrol, they said it stopped cutting out. So again, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings of the engineer.The engineer said they found evidence of damage that had been caused to the alloys after 
the repairs had been carried out. And they thought it possible that this had caused the 
steering to misalign. They said that when the car left the garage after the initial repairs, the 
steering was tested at this point and deemed to be fine. So, the fault now reported by Miss B 
is likely to have been caused by the more recent damage. 
I can understand why Miss B is unhappy with these findings  as she felt the car was in good 
condition prior to the incident. But Aviva offered for Miss B to get her own professional 
opinion of the faults  and if this found that the faults were linked to the incident, or the repair 
work initially carried out then it would look into this again. I cant see that Miss B has got her 
own engineers report done. And so, there isnt any professional evidence to contradict the 
findings of Avivas engineer.  So at the moment, I dont find that it was unreasonable of Aviva 
to rely on the comments of the engineer in determining if it needed to carry out additional 
repair work
For this reason and based on the evidence there is available, there isnt anything that would 
link the current faults Miss B has with the car to the December 2020 incident or the repairs 
its engineers carried out. 
However, if Miss B chooses to commission a different independent engineers report, then I 
think that Aviva should consider this. 
Unauthorised repairs
The policy terms state:
If your vehicle is lost, stolen, or damaged, we will:
 repair your vehicle unless you notify us that you want us to pay someone else to repair it;
It also states:
What if I want to use a garage of my choice?
We can arrange for your vehicle to be taken to a repairer of your choice if it is closer than 
our nearest approved repairer. This may lead to delays in arranging the repairs. We will not 
be able to provide you with a courtesy vehicle and the excess you must pay will increase.
Aviva have said that repairs were initially discussed with Miss B, but she was informed that 
an additional excess would be due for choosing a non-approved repairer. Because of the 
additional cost, Miss B chose to get an estimate through Avivas approved repairer. 
Aviva have though stated that Miss B was given some incorrect information. Its said that its 
system shows that Miss B wanted to wait for an estimate before the repairs started. But its 
said that with our approved repairers any time the job is assigned to them this gives them 
the authority to estimate and complete the repair.  In this case the repairer had to pay to 
recover the vehicle and estimate, so this would be a cost to them and they would not be 
paying these charges for the repair to not be carried out after the estimate.
Based on this, I can understand why Miss B might have been disappointed that the repairs 
were carried out without her being given the estimate first. But having said that and from 
reviewing the notes I have available, Miss B didnt want to pay the additional excess to use 
her own repairer and given what the engineer has said about the other faults with the car, I 
dont think the situation she now finds herself in would have been different regardless of 
which repairer she used.I can also see that there was a change in the repairer at some point, because Miss B had 
read bad reviews about the one Aviva initially wanted to use. I agree that Miss B was given 
some incorrect information, but it appears that there was some discussion about which 
repairer was going to carry out the work, before the repairs took place. So I find it likely that 
Miss B would have used Avivas repairer regardless. And I havent found that she wasnt 
given the option of using her own repairer.
Courtesy car
Ive looked at the cover Miss B has paid for. I can see that Miss B opted out of taking 
additional cover for a courtesy car. Its likely that the additional cover would have attracted 
an additional premium, which there isnt anything wrong with. I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay 
for something that hasnt been previously selected or paid for, so I dont think Aviva have 
acted unfairly by not providing Miss B with a courtesy car when it initially went in for repairs. 
But Ive seen that Aviva did pay for a hire car for Miss B when it carried out the additional 
checks to her car. It didnt have to do this. So I find this to be more than fair.
Loss of use
The policy terms and conditions say: 
What we wont pay for:
 Loss of use, wear and tear, loss or damage which happens gradually, loss of value 
following repair, depreciation, failure of electronics, mechanical breakdown or breakage, or 
tyre damage caused by braking, punctures, cuts or bursts.
Again, loss of use isnt something thats covered under the policy and so I wouldnt expect 
Aviva to pay out for this. I cant see that Aviva has caused any unnecessary delays when it 
initially repaired the car, or when it checked it over the second time, and so I dont agree 
Aviva needs to do anything more here. 
Excess
The policy terms and conditions state:
An excess is the amount you will have to pay towards any claim.
 An excess will apply to most claims.
Generally, an excess is payable whenever a claim is made on the policy, so this term isnt 
unusual or unfair. Aviva has carried out the repairs to Miss Bs car in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and so the excess is payable.  
summary
Overall, I think Aviva have treated Miss B fairly. It agreed to check the car again after the first 
repairs, when it did this it provided her with hire car cover at its own expense. While I 
appreciate that Miss B was given some misleading information about waiting for an estimate 
for the repairs, I dont think this is likely to have had much impact on whats happened in this 
case. And given that Aviva has already provided her with the use of a courtesy car, when 
she wasnt entitled to it, I wont be asking it to do anything more for her.If Miss B does get her own independent engineers report carried out, as suggested by Aviva, 
then Id expect Aviva to consider this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman