DRN-4389917
Complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In January 2017, Moneybarn provided Mr S with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £10,950.00. Mr S paid a deposit of £4,000.00 and entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,950.00. The loan had 
interest and charges of £5,399.25 and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to 
be repaid of £12,349.25 (not including Mr S deposit) was due to be repaid in 47 monthly 
instalments of £262.75.
Mr S complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr S 
complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr S provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr S which had shown Mr S had  
defaults (the most recent of which was 8 months prior to the application) and a county court 
judgment (CCJ) taken out against him eight months previously. It also requested copies of 
bank statements from Mr S. And when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr S 
living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this 
agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr S says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr S and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Moneybarn gathered a significant amount of information 
from Mr S and didnt simply rely on what he said about his income and expenditure. Having 
looked at the information gathered, whilst I do have some concerns about what was on the 
bank statements, Im mindful that Mr S was being provided with funds for a vehicle rather 
than cash to spend. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was wholly unreasonable 
for Moneybarn to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information provided appears to show that when Mr S regular living 
expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did 
have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
I appreciate that Mr S may have been spending almost all of the funds in his account. But its 
clear that most of what was going out of his account was discretionary expenditure. I might 
have reached a different conclusion had the funds not gone directly to pay for a vehicle. But 
as it is I dont think that Moneybarn ought to have realised that Mr S might have had difficulty 
making his payments at the time of his application. 
I accept its possible that Mr S actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than 
what the information he provided showed. And I have my suspicions as to why this might be 
the case. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could 
possibly be expected to have known that Mr S would not be able to sustainably make the 
payments to this agreement, bearing in mind that the information provided doesnt clearly 
show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Moneybarn carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks and overall it wasnt unreasonable for it to enter 
into this agreement with Mr S. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr S. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman