DRN-3846661
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Origen Financial Services Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a guaranteed 
annuity. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In October 2015, Mr Bs employer sent the members of its DB scheme a flexible retirement 
offer (FRO) in order that they could explore the option of taking their scheme pension 
benefits early. Mr Bs employer said that taking scheme benefits early not would not be 
suitable for everyone. The FRO proposed three potential routes for taking the scheme 
benefits:
Route 1 was to take the scheme benefits by 31 October 2015. For Mr B (then aged 57) 
this would mean a total pension of £4,922.56 per annum or tax-free cash (TFC) of 
£24,903.68 and a reduced annual pension of £3,735.54.
Route 2 was to transfer the scheme benefits to buy a pension outside of the scheme. By 
way of illustration, Mr Bs employer said this would give Mr B a total pension of 
£7,726.34 per annum now or TFC of £42,415.79 and a reduced pension of £5,794.75. 
Mr Bs employer said there were a wide range of options under this route which Mr B 
could choose to meet his needs. 
Route 3 was for Mr B to transfer his scheme benefits to receive a flexible income outside 
the scheme now. This route included a transfer value of £169,663.15 which Mr Bs 
employer said could be taken as one, or a series of, lump sums. It also said it was 
possible to take 25% of the fund as TFC.
Mr Bs employer said all the figures were for illustration purposes only and it had appointed 
Origen to provide free financial advice so that the scheme members could discuss the full 
range of options available. The FRO also stated that Mr B had a total deferred pension as of 
31 October 2015 of £6,765.03 at his normal retirement date (NRD) at age 65. 
Mr B decided to take up the offer of free advice from Origen and had a meeting with an 
adviser in early January 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Origen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. His circumstances at the time were noted as follows:   
He was aged 57 and married with no dependent children.
He was employed and he and his wife had a joint net monthly income of £3,990. 
Mr and Mrs Bs disposable monthly income was £1,423.27.
Their house was valued at £160,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £36,506 which had 
six years left to run. 
Mr and Mrs B had £4,000 in a savings account.
Mr B had a stakeholder pension with a current fund value of £72,594.39 and Mrs B was 
a member of her employers DB scheme which was forecast to provide her with an 
income at NRD (age 65) of £9,958 per annum. 
Mr B had two personal loans which each had 2 years 11 months left to run. Jointly they 
cost Mr B £509.72 per month. He also had car finance which cost £420 per month and 
had four years left to run. 
Mr Bs preferred retirement age was noted as being age 66 and he expected to receive 
the full state pension. 
Mrs B intended to take early retirement in the very near future. 
Origen also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR). Mr Bs completion of 
the risk questionnaire indicated he was a medium risk investor but in relation to his pension 
he was deemed to have a low ATR. Origen assessed that Mr B had no capacity for loss in 
relation to the value of his DB scheme. 
On 22 January 2016, Origen issued Mr B with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer his pension benefits and immediately purchase a guaranteed annuity with a provider 
R on a joint life basis with a 50% spouses pension, a 10-year guarantee period and with 
the income payable monthly in advance. The annuity recommended by Origen was a level 
annuity and paid Mr B £466.85 per month after paying him TFC of £42,416. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary:-
So Mr B could access TFC immediately to clear his existing debts along with part of the 
mortgage;
For the annuity purchase to provide a guaranteed income which Mr B could put towards 
his expenditure requirements both in retirement and whilst he remained in employment.
It allowed Mr B to consider recycling the income he received from the annuity into his 
stakeholder pension.
Although Mr B had not considered what his income needs in retirement might be and 
hadnt made any concrete plans for any home improvements, holidays or major spending 
he wanted to continue with a couple of nice holidays a year whilst he was young enough 
to do so and able to enjoy his money. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation and the purchase of the guaranteed annuity went ahead 
shortly after. Origen received no fee for arranging Mr Bs annuity. Mr B used his TFC 
(together with the TFC Mrs B received when she retired in early 2016) to clear all his debts 
apart from the car finance and to clear the outstanding balance on the mortgage. 
In October 2021 Mr B, through his representative, complained to Origen about the suitability 
of the advice it had given him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. Mr B complained that 
Origen had failed in a number of the regulatory duties it owed him. Mr B also complained 
that: 
Origen had failed to show that the recommendation was in his best interests. 
Origen had failed him given the high critical yield (investment rate of return) identified in 
the transfer value analysis report (TVAS) in relation to his ATR and capacity for loss.
Origen had failed to confirm his understanding of the benefits he held in his DB scheme.
He didnt need the income from the annuity in 2016 because he and Mrs B had a surplus 
income every month. 
Origen had failed to establish both his future pension income in retirement and his 
expected expenditure in retirement. 
Origen had failed to discuss his desire to repay early debt that was clearly affordable to 
him.Origen had failed to advise him about alternative methods of debt repayment available to 
him and Mrs B including that Mrs B was about to take early retirement and receive TFC 
of £51,334.93 which could have been used by them to reduce their debt burden.
Origen looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. It said that it 
was evident from the advice process that an annuity was a viable option for Mr B in his 
circumstances and it matched his ATR. It also said Mr B was keen to access the greater 
amount of TFC on offer by transferring so that he could pay off his debts and receive a 
guaranteed income for the rest of his life. Origen said it had discussed with Mr B the fact he 
would be giving up an index linked pension but that his preference had been to receive a 
higher level of income from the commencement of the annuity. Origen also said it had 
explained to Mr B that it takes many years for the crossover/break-even point  when 
comparing fixed and level income  to be reached.
Unhappy with the outcome of Origens investigation into his complaint, Mr B complained to 
this service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. 
He thought the transfer hadnt been in Mr Bs best interests as he was unlikely to improve on 
the guaranteed benefits on offer through his DB scheme. He also thought that Mr Bs 
objective of clearing both personal debt and his mortgage could have been met by other 
means. Overall, our Investigator thought Origens recommendation that Mr B transfer his DB 
scheme benefits was unsuitable so he recommended that Origen compensate Mr B in line 
with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) guidance.  
Origen replied to our Investigator to say that it disagreed with his findings and wanted the 
complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision. It repeated a number of facts and points it 
had made before. Our Investigator shared Origens response to his findings with Mr Bs 
representative and it then sent us its further comments. The representative said Mr B agreed 
with our Investigators findings. The representative also commented that there was a 
difference between Mr B wanting to clear debt and needing to clear debt and that there were 
alternatives available to Mr B to achieve this objective that didnt involve transferring his DB 
scheme benefits contrary to Origens assertion. 
Our Investigator shared Mr Bs additional comments with Origen however, no additional 
comments were received in response. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What appears below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Origens actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Origen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Origens role was to really understand what Mr B needed and to recommend what was in his 
best interests. Ultimately, I dont think the advice it gave Mr B was suitable or in his best 
interests. By transferring his DB benefits he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income and, in my view was very likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits 
as a result. I cant see that there were any particular reasons which justified the transfer and 
outweighed this. Ill explain why. 
Access to tax-free cash and debt clearance
The main objective identified by Origen for the transfer of Mr Bs DB scheme benefits was so 
he could obtain access to TFC immediately in order to clear his existing debts along with the 
mortgage. I dont doubt that accessing TFC sounded like an attractive option to Mr B. But an 
advisers job isnt to simply facilitate a customers wants. Any objectives should be 
thoroughly interrogated to determine if they are realistic or not or achievable through other 
means. And ultimately the adviser had to determine whether giving up the secure, 
guaranteed benefits of available through the DB scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think Mr B had a genuine need to access his TFC early so I think he could have left 
his funds invested until a later date, or until he was ready to draw his pension. I say this 
firstly because it is clear from the fact-find that Mr B had, at the time of the advice, a 
significant surplus monthly income. He and Mrs B had a monthly disposable income, after all 
outgoings, of £1,423. They also had accessible savings of £4,000. I accept that Mrs B retired 
in January 2016 on a reduced pension of £7,700 per year (at the same time taking TFC of in 
excess of £51,000) and in so doing reduced their monthly disposable income to £564. 
However, there seems to be no exploration of whether some of that disposable income could 
be utilised in some way to achieve the debt clearance Mr B had identified such that there 
would be no need to lose the guaranteed benefits associated with the DB scheme. 
 And whilst Mr and Mrs B had two personal loans with a combined outstanding balance of 
£18,019 and each with an outstanding term of 2 years 11 months, Ive seen no evidence that 
Mr and Mrs B werent managing to comfortably meet the monthly repayments of £509 on 
these loans or that they wouldnt be able to continue to do so. Given that the loan 
repayments were affordable there was no need that I can see to transfer valuable DB 
scheme benefits to clear loans that would be repaid in less than three years time in any 
event. 
But most significantly I cant see that Origen took into account the significant TFC of over 
£51,000 that Mrs B was about to receive when considering Mr Bs principal objective of debt 
clearance. Given that Mrs B was about to retire and that their monthly disposable income 
was about to be reduced, Mr Bs desire to clear down his debts at this point is 
understandable. But Origen was there to provide Mr B with suitable advice for his 
circumstances. And his circumstances at the time included the fact that Mrs B was about to 
receive a significant sum in TFC that could be used to achieve the very objective Mr B was 
most interested in achieving and without having to sacrifice his valuable DB benefits. 
The TFC Mrs B received was sufficient to clear the outstanding mortgage balance and the 
larger of the two personal loans and, in so doing, freeing up £933 per month in repayments. 
The only loan that would have been left outstanding was the small loan for £3,309 which 
cost £89 per month which, given Mr and Mrs B would then have a monthly disposable 
income of almost £1,500, could have been cleared within a few months had they so wished. 
Alternatively they could have used their savings to clear it. But I cant see that Origen 
explored with Mr B other means of Mr B clearing his debts 
Overall I dont think that Mr Bs desire to clear his debts  particularly given his 
circumstances at the time  was a good enough reason for him to be giving up a secure, 
guaranteed, escalating pension income in retirement. I think, given Mr Bs financial situation 
at the time, the financial objectives for transferring his pension to access the TFC arent 
justified, particularly when he couldve used Mrs Bs TFC and his savings  which were likely 
to be achieving minimal returns at the time  to clear all his debts.
Income needs 
At the time the FRO was made Mr and Mrs B had a significant amount of surplus income 
remaining each month after all expenditure. Yet I can see that one of the reasons cited by 
Origen for recommending that Mr B transfer his DB scheme benefits was to purchase an 
annuity to put towards his spending requirements both immediately and in retirement. Given 
the surplus income Mr B had each month, I cant see why giving up his guaranteed DB 
benefits in exchange for income he didnt currently need was in Mr Bs best interests. I cant 
see that Origen established why Mr B might need more income now or, if he did, how much 
he might require. Indeed I note from the fact-find that Origen recorded that Mr B confirmed 
your existing sources of income comfortably cover your existing expenditure requirements 
and provide you with surplus income on a monthly basis.
Origen also failed to draw to Mr Bs attention to the fact that the additional income would 
make him a higher rate taxpayer and that he would be paying more tax for income he didnt 
need. 
At the time of the advice, Mr B was aged 57 and based on what Ive seen he had no 
concrete retirement plans. Mr B told Origen he intended to retire at his state retirement age 
of 66 so he had nine years to go before he needed to think about accessing his pension. But 
if Origen had had full regard to Mr Bs information and communication needs I think it should 
have explored his actual retirement plans and what was important to him. And it should have 
assessed his income needs in retirement. But I cant see that it interrogated this with Mr B I any meaningful way, indeed in the fact-find it noted: You havent really considered what 
your income needs in retirement will be.  
I accept that the fact-find and suitability report state that Mr and Mrs B would need a joint 
annual income in retirement of £16,000 but there is no explanation, or exploration about how 
this figure was arrived at and no further retirement income needs are mentioned. I can see 
too from the suitability report that with Mr and Mrs Bs full state pensions at state retirement 
age plus Mrs Bs occupational DB scheme at NRD that Origen stated they would have a 
combined income when Mrs B reached age 67 of over £26,000 excluding Mr Bs DB 
scheme. But the figures used by Origen to arrive at this total dont account for the fact that 
Mrs B was about to take early retirement and that her pension would be reduced as a result 
(and so was £2,258 lower than the amount cited by Origen in the suitability report). Mr B has 
also explained that it was unlikely that Mrs B would receive the full state pension when she 
reached 67 because she hadnt made sufficient qualifying contributions in order to do so. So 
I think it is reasonable to assume that the combined income of £26,000 cited by Origen 
would be reduced even further.
Without any understanding what income needs Mr B may indeed have in retirement it isnt 
possible to say that the transfer was in his best interests and that it met those needs. At the 
time of the advice, those needs were, for Mr B, unknown. What was known, because it was 
noted on the fact-find that Mr B would be reliant on the income from his pension for his 
expenditure in retirement, was that he had no capacity for loss. 
The 10-year annuity arranged for Mr B by Origen gave him an annual fixed income of 
£5,602.20 and TFC of £42,216. The annuity was a level annuity that didnt increase with 
inflation. If Mr B had remained in his DB scheme he would have been entitled to an annual 
index linked pension at NRD of £5,915 and TFC of £40,199. Origen has said that by the time 
Mr B reaches his scheme NRD his annuity would have been payment for nine years and it 
would take many years for the scheme benefits to outstrip the benefits he would have 
received from the personal pension. Its also said that Mr Bs preference was to receive a 
higher level of income at the start of the policy although given the figures Ive just cited Im 
unable to agree with what it says about this.
Mr Bs DB scheme was a significant component of his retirement income. Given Mr B is not 
intending to retire before his NRD of 66 I cant see any advantage to setting up a level 
annuity at 57 that would be eroded by inflation over the years, and taxed at a higher rate, 
just to clear debts that were serviceable and which would be cleared down well before 
retirement and, by so doing, foregoing a guaranteed index linked pension in retirement. The 
index linking included with Mr Bs DB scheme is a valuable benefit that I dont think Mr B had 
the capacity to lose. The annuity Origen arranged for Mr B means he will have a decreasing 
(in real terms) income in retirement as compared to having an income from his DB scheme 
that increased each year in accordance with the schemes index-linking benefit. I dont think 
this was in Mr Bs interests and I think that if Origen had explained to Mr B that by taking an 
income at 57 that would never increase he would be giving up a valuable index linked 
income in retirement, I think that Mr B may have chosen to leave his benefits within the 
scheme. 
Origen has said that its recommendation to transfer was suitable for Mr B because he 
required a secure income stream in retirement. However the index-linked income provided 
by the DB scheme already provided Mr B with that; so I cant see that there was any need to 
recommend a transfer to achieve something that Mr B already had. And if Mr B later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme then he could have done so closer to retirement. So it follows that I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of 
the DB scheme and I dont think Origens recommendation that Mr B transfer was a suitable 
one. 
Nor am I able to agree that Mr B giving up his guaranteed DB scheme benefits so that he 
could perhaps recycle the income he received from the annuity into his stakeholder pension 
was in his best interests. By doing so, Mr B was exposing all his pension savings to 
investment risk whereas he could have retained his valuable DB benefits that were 
guaranteed. 
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income just to repay debts that were affordable. So, I 
think Origen shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Origens 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Origens advice. I say this because Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor with a low/medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a 
significant portion of Mr Bs retirement provision. So, if Origen had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Origen should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair 
that Origen calculates Mr Bs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr B.
Origen must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mr B plans to retire at age 66. So, compensation should be based on his him 
taking benefits at this age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Origen has 
received notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Origen to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Origen deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Origen should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Origen Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Origen Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Origen 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Origen Financial Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Origen Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman