DRN-3961381
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont reimburse money he lost as part of an 
authorised push payment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
full again here. Rather, Ill set out some key points and focus on giving reasons for my 
decision:
Mr S was looking for a new car and in February 2021 employed a company which Ill 
call F, to find and obtain a car for him. In total, Mr S paid F £28,495 for a car in two 
payments - £495 and £28,000 - which would be refunded if a car couldnt be found. 
After several weeks Mr S became concerned as a car hadnt been found. And he 
discovered all the previous positive reviews about F had become negative. So he 
asked for his money back.
From June 2021 onwards, Mr S received over £20,000 back from F. But he raised a 
claim with Tesco for the remaining sum, believing he had been scammed. Tesco 
didnt refund the money or uphold the subsequent complaint about that as it didnt 
find Mr S had been scammed. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr S had been scammed either as the business had 
been incorporated for a number of years and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). It has also had a lot of positive reviews indicting customers had 
previously had orders completed. But they also found that even if it was a scam, and 
Tesco had asked more questions about the payment, they didnt think this would 
have identified a scam or stopped the payments from being made. 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman; he remains of the 
view he has been the victim of a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payments instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Mr S  even if they have been 
tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Mr S authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Its not certain Mr S has fallen victim to a scam, rather than lost his money to a 
business that ran into financial difficulties  it is now in liquidation. It had been 
incorporated for a number of years and was authorised and regulated by the FCA. It 
also refunded over 70% of Mr Ss money, not the typical actions of a scammer. As 
such there wouldnt have been a duty on Tesco to intervene. 
But even if Im wrong about that, and Mr S has been scammed, I dont think there is 
anything that Tesco could have said or done which would have prevented Mr S from 
going ahead with the payment.
The £28,000 payment Mr S made was large. And its apparent it appeared out of 
character as Tesco did stop it pending finding out more information about it. During 
this call, Tesco discussed how Mr S had come by the bank details the payment was 
being sent to.  
I do accept Tesco could have asked more appropriately probing questions about the 
payment and what it was for. However, Mr S has told us he is a really cautious 
person and had done extensive research before deciding to send any of his money, 
which had included reading many reviews of F, which were positive, and watching 
online videos. Im not aware of any publicly available information that was around at 
the time, either to Mr S or Tesco, that would have indicated F was anything other 
than a legitimate company. Given those things, Im not persuaded better questioning 
would have resulted in Tesco believing its customer was still at risk, such that a scam 
warning ought to have been given. At most it could have advised Mr S to conduct 
research into F  which hed already done extensively.  
The payments made by Mr S were faster payments and as such there is no option to 
charge them back  a potential recovery method only applicable to card payments. 
And Tesco isnt a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model and so Mr S 
isnt due a refund under that scheme either. Its not clear whether Tesco attempted 
recovery of the funds from the beneficiary bank or not. But it can be seen that much 
of Mr Ss payments had been refunded by F and he acknowledges he asked Tesco 
to put the matter on hold several times due to the refunds he was receiving. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded Tesco has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman