DRN-3706137
The complaint
Mrs H complains about her private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs H first took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA 
in 2017. The policy renews in January each year.
In 2022, Mrs H made a claim against her policy in relation to hip replacement surgery. 
AXA told Mrs H that it would pay only a percentage of the hospital and consultant fees. 
Mrs H says that when she first took out a policy with AXA in 2017, she asked whether 
her cover included all hospitals in a particular geographical area, particularly a hospital 
Ill refer to as K hospital, and a named consultant. She says that AXA said that her 
cover included K hospital. 
Mrs H says that on renewal, AXA didnt tell her that it had made a material change in the 
policy in relation to cover for K hospital in that it now only covered 60% of the fees.       
Mrs H says that if she had known the true position, she wouldnt have renewed the 
policy. She says that the policy was mis-sold to her as she had a reasonable expectation 
that K hospital was included in her cover. Mrs H says that it should have been made 
clear to her that she wasnt dealing with a broker. 
Mrs H wants AXA to pay her claim in full and a refund of her premiums since 2018.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that the terms and 
conditions make it clear that the policy is for one year and that the hospital list changes 
from time to time. The investigator said that the hospital list is available online for 
policyholders to access. She didnt think that AXA was obliged to tell policyholders when 
it makes changes to the hospital list. The investigator didnt think that the policy had 
been mis-sold to Mrs H. She said that AXA acted fairly in covering 60% of the charges 
from K hospital and in offering to find an alternative hospital on its list. The investigator 
didnt think that AXA had misled Mrs H about its status.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
AXA could meet her claim in full. 
She was clear in 2017 that having cover for K hospital was a fundamental term of 
the contract. 
Theres an imbalance in the relationship between her and AXA and it should 
have alerted her to the fact that cover for K hospital had been reduced 
significantly. 
AXA didnt treat her fairly when she renewed her policy. 
She hasnt said that she only wanted treatment at K hospital, but she wanted the 
option to have treatment there. 
An independent broker would have gone through any key changes on renewal, 
including the change to the hospital list, knowing this was a fundamental term for 
her. 
Given her request about K hospital when she first took out a policy with AXA in 
2017, its fair to assume that AXA was aware of the importance of the change to 
the hospital list; it could have drawn her attention to the change. 
If AXA had acted in accordance with the doctrine of utmost good faith and 
disclosed the change to the hospital list, she wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
Mrs H asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
3.8 Paying the places where you're treated - cover for all
Where can I have treatment?
If your treatment is covered by your policy, we will pay your hospital fees in full. This is so 
long as a specialist is overseeing your treatment, and you use one of the following listed in 
the hospital list:
a hospital
a day-patient unit.
If your treatment is covered by your policy, but you have the treatment in a facility not 
listed in the hospital list, we'll pay 60% of the charges from that facility as long as they 
charge up to the normal rates published and charged by that facility. You will be responsible 
for paying the remaining charges.
[]
hospital list  the list of hospitals, day-patient units and scanning centres that are 
available for you to use under the terms of your policy. 
The list changes from time to time, so you should always check with us before arranging 
treatment. Some treatments are only available in certain facilities. 
The hospital list is on our website at Health-on-Line.co.uk
has AXA treated Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that AXA 
treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say that it is for one year. So, each 
policy year is distinct. 
Based on what Ive seen this was a non-advised sale which means that AXA didnt 
give Mrs H advice about the suitability of the policy. Nevertheless, AXA was 
obliged to provide Mrs H with information thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mrs H says  and I accept  that she enquired about hospital K when she first took 
out a policy with AXA. At that time, hospital K was on AXAs hospital list. So, AXA 
gave Mrs H accurate information when she first took out a policy. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that AXA gave Mrs H assurances that the hospital list would remain 
unchanged. 
Mrs Hs claim which led to the complaint was in 2022. So, the policy thats relevant 
to this complaint is the one that started in January 2022. Ive looked at the 
information AXA made available at the time of renewal in 2022. 
The membership guide AXA sent to Mrs H in December 2021 in relation to renewal 
in January 2022 made clear under the heading What isnt covered? that AXA 
doesnt cover the full cost of treatment in hospitals that arent on its hospital list. In 
a prominent box under a heading of Hospitals near you it gave instructions 
about how Mrs H could search its hospital list. 
I dont agree that AXA was obliged to draw Mrs Hs attention to the fact that 
hospital K was no longer on its hospital list. The terms and conditions of the policy 
make it clear that the hospital list changes from time to time and refers to the 
website where the list can be found. Before renewal in 2022, AXA made available 
sufficient information to enable Mrs H to access its hospital list. I dont think that 
AXA needed to do any more than that. 
I appreciate that Mrs H believed that she was dealing with a broker, but I dont think 
that AXA misled her in this regard. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably either at renewal or in dealing with her claim. There are no grounds 
on which I can fairly direct AXA to pay her claim in full or refund premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman