DRN-3946739
The complaint
Miss N complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) refunded the cost of returned items to her 
Next account not to her debit card and unfairly froze her account. She would like 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Next has evidenced from its terms and conditions that when goods are returned 
credits are applied to the Next account, not to the card that the payments were made 
from. As such I cant say that Next were wrong in applying refunds to Miss Ns 
account in the way that it did.
Similarly, its terms and conditions allow Next to review credit limits from time to time. 
I have seen a communication Next sent Miss N in which it explained why it placed a 
temporary hold on her account. This was a business decision Next was entitled to 
take according to its terms and conditions.
I  appreciate Next  made some exceptions for Miss N by making refunds direct to her 
debit card. In its final response letter dated 7 June 2022 Next confirmed that had 
refund a total of £417.50 back to Miss Ns debit card between 2-6 June 2022. It also 
said it wouldnt issue further refunds in this way in the future. However, Miss N has 
evidenced  further refunds were made later in June. Whilst I appreciate that was to 
Miss Ns advantage I think it added to the confusion for Miss N as to how refunds are 
applied. So, I think the £100 distress and inconvenience payment our investigator  
recommended is fair for any distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Next Retail Limited should pay Miss N £100 compensation for the  
distress and inconvenience of inconsistent information with regard to refunds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman