DRN-2559997
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly closed his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr W says he agreed a repayment plan with Tesco Bank in December 2019. He says he 
cleared the debt in full in July 2020 following a large payment he received but Tesco Bank 
closed his account. Mr W says he didnt receive a Default Notice that Tesco Bank said it sent 
him In June 2020 and if he had would have cleared the balance sooner as he had received 
the money to do so. He says he was unaware of the deadline and has now lost access to a 
credit facility which he needs. Mr W would like Tesco Bank to reinstate his account but will 
agree a lower credit limit.
Tesco Bank says it agreed a plan with Mr W in December 2019 that expired on 1 June 2020. 
It says it sent Mr W a Notice of Default in early June 2020 that told him he needed to clear 
the full balance within 28 days but its not responsible for the delivery of the mail. Tesco 
Bank says it will not reinstate the account and Mr W will need to apply for a new account and 
says it didnt report the Default to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Tesco Bank had told Mr W in December 2019 that the agreement ended 
on 1 June 2020 and that the Default letter was sent to the correct address. The investigator 
didnt think Tesco Bank was responsible for the delivery of mail and thought it had acted in 
line with account terms and conditions by ending the agreement. The investigator also 
thought Mr K was told the account was closing when he called Tesco Bank in July 2020.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says he couldnt comply with a time limit he 
knew nothing about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate 
Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Tesco Bank agreed a short-term plan in December 2019 that had an end 
date of 1 June 2020 and that it told Mr W that. I appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive the 
Default Notice in early June 2020, but I can see it was correctly addressed. And I cant fairly 
hold Tesco Bank responsible for the safe delivery of mail and its not our role to tell it how it 
communicates with its customers.
I think the key issue is not the default notice but the end of the agreement. Im satisfied on 
balance that it was Mr Ws responsibility to contact Tesco Bank at the end or before the end 
of the agreement to either discuss a new plan or for Mr W to update Tesco Bank with his 
financial position. I have explained that I find Mr W knew or reasonably ought to have known 
when the agreement ended and without a further agreement, I think it inevitable Tesco Bank 
would default the account which is what took place. 
Im satisfied that Tesco Bank acted fairly by not registering a default on Mr Ws credit file and 
that it is entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to end an agreement. Im 
also satisfied that Tesco Bank has fairly told Mr W that he can apply for a new account if he 
wishes and that overall its up to Tesco Bank to decide with whom it has a business 
relationship.
I appreciate that Mr W doesnt accept he was told by Tesco Bank in July 2020 that his 
account would close. I dont think that is the main part of this complaint but make clear that I 
dont think Tesco Bank told Mr W the account would remain open and explained it would not 
register a default.
Overall, Im satisfied Tesco Bank hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and that it was Mr 
Ws responsibility to contact Tesco Bank before the agreement ended on 1 June 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman