DRN-3219312
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help him get a refund 
following a chargeback dispute. 
What happened
On 9 March 2021, Mr S purchased a photo editing software app using the app store on his 
phone. This was a subscription for 12 months and it cost £19.99.
Mr S told us that he unsubscribed within an hour of purchase and expected a refund. He 
said he didnt like the app, didnt know how to use it and found it was very complicated. 
When Mr S hadnt received a refund, he contacted Barclays. They raised a chargeback 
dispute on 16 March 2021 and gave Mr S a temporary refund. On 19 March 2021, the 
chargeback claim was defended by the app store. Shortly after, Barclays removed the 
temporary refund from Mr S account. 
Unhappy that he wasnt getting a refund, Mr S raised a complaint. Barclays said that they 
hadnt made an error and were following the chargeback rules in dealing with his dispute. 
They explained Mr S chargeback wasnt successful as he hadnt followed the correct 
process to request a refund and the services hed purchased had been provided.
Our investigator said that Barclays followed their chargeback process correctly and she was 
satisfied they didnt do anything wrong by reversing the temporary refund. Mr S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to clarify that Im unable to consider any concerns about the app 
store (the merchant) or the app provider directly as they dont fall within our remit. I can only 
look at the actions or inactions of Barclays in deciding this complaint.
A chargeback is a way for the card providers like Barclays to claim money back from the 
merchants bank in certain specific circumstances, for example, if the customer doesnt get 
the goods or services they paid for.
Chargebacks are subject to strict rules and timescales which are set by the card scheme (in 
this case Visa) and not Barclays. This means chargebacks are decided on the basis of the 
rules set by Visa rather than the underlying dispute between the Mr S and merchant. There 
are no guarantees that the money can be recovered from the merchants bank as the 
merchant could defend the chargeback. 
Customers arent legally entitled to a chargeback. In simple terms, Barclays doesnt have to 
raise a chargeback simply because Mr S requested it. But Id expect them to fairly assess a 
claim and attempt a chargeback where there appears to be a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Barclays raised a chargeback dispute on 16 March 2021, after discussing Mr S concerns 
and the steps hed taken to resolve the issue. Mr S was told to send them any evidence to 
strengthen his case. They also gave Mr S a temporary refund while his dispute was ongoing. 
So, Im satisfied Barclays treated Mr S fairly.
Mr S chargeback was successfully defended by the merchant on the basis of their refund 
policy. Ive provided the links to the merchants terms of service and refund policy alongside 
my decision.
This explains that if a customer isnt satisfied with an app or in-app purchase within 48 hours 
of purchase, a refund could be requested from them (the app store) or the app provider 
directly. 
The merchant said theyd provided the app purchased and there was no record of Mr S 
contacting them to cancel the order. They also explained that a customer can cancel a 
subscription at any time before the end of the applicable billing cycle, and the cancellation 
will apply from the next period.
Its clear Mr S wanted to cancel the order and he was under the impression that hed 
automatically get a refund by unsubscribing. But that wasnt the case.
Mr S purchase was for an annual subscription, so as per the terms of service, when he 
unsubscribed, the cancellation would apply from the next subscription period. And he wasnt 
actually cancelling the order as he intended. And when Mr S contacted the app provider to 
request the refund, it was more than 48 hours from purchase.
Based on the evidence the merchant provided, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays 
not to continue challenging the dispute as there would be no reasonable prospect of 
success. I say this because Mr S didnt cancel the order as per the refund policy.
Barclays were also entitled to remove the temporary refund from Mr S account as the 
chargeback wasnt successful. I can see theyd made Mr S aware that the refund was only 
temporary, as Id expect.
Im sorry to hear Mr S is still having difficulties obtaining a refund from the app provider. He 
has asked to continue using the software if he cant get his money back. But as Ive 
explained above, I cant help Mr S with his concerns about the merchant or app provider as 
they arent within our jurisdiction. 
I know Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint and will be disappointed with my 
decision. But all things considered, Im satisfied Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably, 
so I wont be asking them to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman