DRN-4155035
The complaint
Mr H complains that a British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) engineer damaged his 
boiler beyond repair and caused further damage to a kitchen worktop following a claim he 
made under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr H says British Gas repaired his boiler in March 2022, which left it as good as new. In 
June, he contacted it again due to another fault. The printed circuit board (PCB) for the boiler 
was replaced at this time. He says the PCB had been replaced in March, but it was thought 
the replacement component had been faulty. 
Mr H says there were no further issues until October 2022, when he could smell gas. He 
says a service was also due around this time, so he contacted British Gas again. Mr H says 
its engineer couldnt identify the problem. He had to contact other engineers for assistance 
Mr H says because of this he wasnt confident in the engineers ability. However, the 
engineer managed to complete the repairs and also carried out a service. 
Mr H says he could still smell gas when using the boiler, so he contacted British Gas again. 
The same engineer attended. Mr H says he used a gas detector and questions why this 
wasnt used previously. The engineer replaced a valve gasket, but the smell persisted. More 
gaskets were ordered. These were fitted by the engineer on another visit, but this didnt fix 
the boiler. 
Mr H says several more parts were ordered, and these were fitted by a different engineer. 
But again, this didnt resolve the problem. He was then told there was a carbon monoxide 
leak from the boiler, and that it had to be condemned. Mr H says he has a carbon monoxide 
detector near the boiler, and this hadnt gone off previously. He thinks this shows that British 
Gass engineer damaged his boiler. He says the engineer also scratched the kitchen 
worktop when he was carrying out the repairs. 
Mr H says he was promised a discount on a new boiler that didnt materialise. And that his 
kitchen was further damage when the new boiler was installed.  
In its complaint response British Gas says its engineer didnt damage Mr Hs boiler. Hed 
found multiple faults and replaced several parts to try to repair it. It says its engineer 
managed to resolve the gas leak, but the carbon monoxide reading was showing as 
dangerously high. British Gas says the boiler had to be condemned as the parts needed 
werent available to complete the repair. 
British Gas says a senior engineer was sent the next day to inspect Mr Hs boiler. He agreed 
with the first engineers diagnosis that the boiler must be condemned. It says Mr Hs 
complaint about his kitchen worktop was referred to its insurer and he was paid £295 in 
settlement of the matter. British Gas says it also paid £50 compensation for a delay in 
responding to his complaint.
Mr H didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says the boiler was approximately 25 years old 
and beyond economical repair. She thought British Gass engineers had tried to fix the boiler 
but had reasonably shown this wasnt possible. Our investigator thought it fair that British 
Gas had paid £295 for the kitchen worktop damage, despite its engineer denying hed 
caused this. She said it was also fair that British Gas had waived the £99 excess fee as its 
repair attempt wasnt successful.  
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read the engineer records British Gas supplied. Visits took place in June and July 2022, 
which involved the replacement PCBs. There was then a gap between engineer attendances 
before the next visit took place in October. The records show a new valve and combustion 
gaskets were fitted. In a subsequent visit the engineer noted a gas leak was fixed but there 
was an issue with the carbon monoxide level. This is referenced in the notes with an entry 
that says, Fitted gas manifold gaskets fixed gas leak now ratio is well out. 
I can see a different engineer visited the following day. He also confirmed the readings were 
high. British Gas says this was the view of one of its senior engineers.  
British Gas has provided information to show Mr Hs boiler was on a reduced service list. It 
says this is because the boiler stopped being produced in 2010 and some of its parts are no 
longer available. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs view that the engineer mustve damaged his boiler. But Ive not seen 
evidence to support this. The records show he reported a smell of gas. The engineer thought 
this was due to faulty gaskets. These were replaced and the leak was stopped, but there 
were other issues with the boiler that couldnt be repaired. 
In its submissions to our service British Gas says Mr Hs boiler is 25 years old. I note his 
view that the age of his boiler isnt known definitively. However, this is the opinion of the 
expert engineers who attended. I dont think its unreasonable for British Gas to rely on its 
engineers opinion regarding the approximate age of the boiler. 
Mr H hasnt supplied a report from an independent engineer that shows British Gas 
damaged the boiler or that it couldve been repaired. Im not an expert in this field, so I must 
rely on the view of those who are. Based on this evidence, Im satisfied British Gass 
engineers tried to fix Mr Hs boiler, but as the boiler had been discontinued, the parts needed 
to complete the repair werent available. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments about the carbon monoxide detector not registering an 
issue prior to the engineers attendance in October 2022. I understand the point hes making 
 but Im not persuaded by his comments that hes shown British Gas is responsible for his 
boiler being condemned. 
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments that he was promised a discount on his new boiler. We asked British Gas if it had a recording of this call. It didnt. It says calls are only kept by its 
sales team for 90 days. It has provided a copy of a note that was taken from this call. It says 
its agent wouldnt have been in a position to have provided an outcome at that time. It thinks 
Mr H may have confused a discount with comments its agent made about not charging the 
excess fee. 
I dont dispute Mr Hs recollection of what was discussed in this call. But I havent been able 
to listen to it to establish what was said. Mr H has provided screenshots of emails he 
exchanged with British Gas after his boiler was condemned. In one of these emails, he says:
There has still been no further correspondence.and a discount for the fact we went from a 
fully functioning boiler that went from a gas leak to high carbon monoxide issue following 
numerous attempted repairs as we have previously detailed
This indicates a discount was discussed. However, I cant see that it was agreed. Similarly, I 
dont think British Gas is responsible for Mr H needing a replacement boiler. Based on this 
evidence I cant reasonably conclude Mr H is entitled to a discount that British Gas failed to 
provide. 
Ive seen photos of the damage Mr H says the engineer caused to his kitchen worktop. From 
the records provided its engineer denies causing this damage. He says he always uses a 
dust sheet to protect customers property. However, British Gas confirms this matter was 
settled with a payment of £295. In the circumstances I think this was fair. 
In his emails I can see Mr H raised concerns with how his new boiler had been installed. I 
Ive seen the photos hes supplied of his new boiler that show the new pipework and some 
cracked wall tiles. But Mr Hs boiler wasnt replaced under the terms of his insurance policy 
with British Gas. Nor can I see there is a requirement to do so under the cover he had in 
place. The new boiler was installed separately to Mr Hs policy. So, although Im sorry hes 
dissatisfied with the installation of his new boiler, I cant consider these concerns here. 
Having considered all of this I dont think British Gas treated Mr H unfairly. I think its 
engineers have reasonably shown his boiler was reaching the end of its useful life, and 
despite carrying out several repairs, the parts needed to resolve the problem werent 
available. So, although I think it was fair that it refunded the £99 policy excess and paid £295 
for the damaged worktop, I cant reasonably ask British Gas to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman