DRN-3548784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) have dealt with a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs W hold an LEI policy with DAS. They made a claim under their policy and 
DAS appointed solicitors (Company A) to act on their behalf.
Company A provided Mr and Mrs W with a retainer agreement which they needed to 
sign to become its clients. Mr and Mrs W havent signed this, saying they have 
concerns about additional costs they may be liable for, above what their insurance 
cover or DAS will provide. And they complained to DAS. 
DAS said it appreciated they were apprehensive to sign terms, but it could not 
interfere with a relationship between a solicitor and its client, and if they did not sign 
the terms, then cover would be withdrawn. It went on to say that it would only be in 
the unlikely event of a substantial term of the policy was breached, that Mr and Mrs 
W would become responsible for their own legal costs. 
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. She felt DAS 
hadnt done anything wrong as retainers of this nature were standard practice, and 
DAS wasnt responsible for Company As terms. And she said Mr and Mrs Ws policy 
required them to co-operate with Company A  which they werent doing. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, saying the terms of the LEI policy were unfairly forcing 
them to sign a contract with Company A  and that they had no selection of the 
solicitor. And to resolve the matter DAS could simply instruct Company A to produce 
a new agreement which included a guarantee that Mr and Mrs W would not be liable 
for any legal costs. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She explained DAS was 
able to appoint a preferred law firm as appointed represented at the first stage 
without the matter going to court. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W are concerned about the possibility of having to cover legal costs 
themselves due to the terms of Company As retainer.
So, the question I have to answer in this case is whether DAS is responsible for 
those terms by appointing them, and in turn whether it was fair and reasonable for it 
to withdraw the claim after Mr and Mrs W refused to sign the agreement. 
As our Investigator has explained, our Service can only consider a complaint about 
what DAS, the insurer, is responsible for. We dont have the power to consider a 
complaint against Company A in their capacity as solicitors. 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy sets out their responsibilities as policyholders. This specifies 
they must co-operate with DAS and appointed representatives. This is a common 
requirement within insurances of this nature, and I think is a reasonable expectation. 
The policy terms allow for DAS to choose one of their own panel solicitors at this 
stage of the claim as the matter hasnt yet proceeded to court. This isnt in dispute.
Mr and Mrs W feel this term has unfairly left them forced to agree to Company As 
terms. 
The solicitors here arent acting for DAS  they act for Mr and Mrs W who are their 
clients. So, its standard practice for the solicitors to ask a client to sign their client 
care letter. Thats a matter between the solicitors and their client. Its not something 
DAS has control over.
I would note, the terms in question arent out of line with other agreements Ive seen 
and dont appear unusual. And I think DAS has reasonably given its assurances 
about the situation where costs may not be covered.
So, while I take on board Mr and Mrs Ws strong feeling, I dont agree that DAS 
needs to intervene here or try to provide a guarantee that all legal costs would be 
covered as theyve requested.
And as Mr and Mrs W havent agreed to Company As terms, in the circumstances of 
this case, Im in agreement that Mr and Mrs Ws actions are not in line with their 
policy obligation to co-operate with their appointed representative.
DAS attempted to resolve matters by giving assurances and explaining the 
consequences of not signing the agreement. And in turn, Im satisfied DAS has fairly 
and reasonably withdrawn this claim as Mr and Mrs W have refused to do so.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman