Complaint
Mr W says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Mr W is represented by a third party.
Background
Mr W borrowed £600 from Satsuma on 13 July 2017. The loan was set to run for six months. 
It appears this loan is still outstanding.
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. He said given the loan amount 
and what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances, it wouldn't have been proportionate to 
ask for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. He said 
there was nothing in the information provided that meant it was proportionate to start 
verifying this information. Our adjudicator also explained that he didn't think the period the 
loan was borrowed for wouldve shown that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulty.
Mr W didn't accept the adjudicators view. He said, through his representative that the 
checks carried out by Satsuma weren't sufficient  it would have been reasonable for it to 
have conducted further checks and verify what Mr W told it before granting the loan. If it had, 
it would have been brought to Satsumas attention that Mr Ws outgoings were far in excess 
of those assessed by Satsuma. Not only did Mr W not have any disposable income, but he 
already had a number of payday loans from other companies.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Satsuma could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
DRN-1586885But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
As Ive explained above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldn't have expected Satsuma 
to undertake a full review of Mr Ws circumstances. In this case when looking at the checks 
Satsuma carried out and thinking about what it knew about Mr Ws circumstances from those 
checks, I think the checks it did were proportionate and I dont think it would have needed to 
verify what Mr W was saying.
When Satsuma gave Mr W his loan, he told it that his income was £2,400 per month. He 
said his housing costs were £600, his financial commitments were £180, and his other 
expenditure was £275 - leaving Mr W based on his own figures with £1,345. Satsuma 
applied further safeguards which increased Mr Ws declared expenses to £1,533.91 and it 
added a further expenses buffer of £33. Based on its own checks, Satsuma reasonably 
believed Mr W had a disposable income of £643.49, taking into account the repayment 
amount of £189.60 for this loan. Its checks also revealed no bankruptcy, no judgments and 
no debt management plan. These checks also showed two other payday loans in the last 
month and no active credit accounts in arrears.I dont think there was anything in the checks Satsuma carried out that would have led it to 
think this loan was unaffordable or unsustainable even if in hindsight this turned out to be the 
case. When it gave Mr W his loan this was the first loan it had made to Mr W and I think it 
factored in some additional expenditure when deciding whether Mr W had sufficient income 
to afford the loan.
Overall, I think Satsumas assessment for this loan was proportionate and the checks carried 
out likely showed Mr W could afford it and it was sustainable.
I understand there is an outstanding balance on this loan. I remind Satsuma of its obligation 
to treat Mr W fairly.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Provident Personal 
Credit Limited to take any further action in respect of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman