DRN-1757206
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt approve a chargeback claim. 
What happened
On 2 August 2019 Mrs Y paid a travel agent £286 to amend a ticket for a flight. Mrs Y has 
advised that the ticket was in her friends name. 
Mrs Y has told us that a short time later she contacted the travel agent again to cancel the 
amendment as it wasnt required any longer. Mrs Y has also advised that the travel agent 
failed to send her confirmation of the amendment after it was made. 
After Mrs Y provided some further information about her claim, Lloyds contacted the travel 
agent. On 29 August 2019 the travel agent told Lloyds the booking wasnt in Mrs Ys name, 
so confirmation of the amendment wouldnt be sent to her. Mrs Y sent Lloyds some further 
details about her claim and on 4 September 2019 it advised the chargeback wasnt 
approved.
Mrs Y referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mrs Y asked to appeal so her case has been passed to me to make a decision. Our 
investigator recently asked Mrs Y for some additional information and she told us that no 
further chargeback claims have been raised and that the flight was ultimately cancelled with 
a partial refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs Y raised a chargeback claim, Lloyds wrote to her and requested further details 
about what had happened. I appreciate this took some time, but Im satisfied that once 
Lloyds had checked the details of the claim with Miss Y it was able to look at whether a 
chargeback could be approved. 
Lloyds contacted the merchant who advised that as the flight amendment wasnt made in 
Mrs Ys name it wouldnt send confirmation to her. The confirmation was sent to the ticket 
holder. I appreciate Mrs Y paid for the flight amendment, but the travel agent explained why 
it wouldnt send private information to a person who isnt named on the ticket. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation and I can see that Lloyds passed it on to Mrs Y. 
I recently asked for some further background from Mrs Y. She has told us that the flights 
were cancelled and that a partial refund was received from the travel agent. Mrs Y also 
advised that she didnt raise a follow up chargeback claim with Lloyds.
I can understand why Mrs Y is concerned, but I havent been persuaded to uphold her 
complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs Y but I havent found anything to show that Lloyds 
made a mistake or treated her unfairly. After Mrs Y asked for a refund Lloyds contacted her 
to check the circumstances surrounding her claim. Mrs Y responded and Lloyds went on to 
contact the travel agent. It was at that stage that the travel agent explained why it hadnt 
forwarded confirmation of the ticket amendments to Mrs Y directly as she wasnt the 
passenger. The travel agent also confirmed that the date of the flights themselves had yet to 
pass. Ultimately, Lloyds can only process and approve a chargeback claim where it meets 
the scheme rules. Im satisfied that the circumstances of Mrs Ys claim didnt meet the 
chargeback rules, so there were no grounds for Lloyds to approve it. 
On 4 September 2019 Lloyds emailed Mrs Y and explained its decision. Lloyds explained 
that it may be able to review the chargeback claim again if the flights were not available. 
Mrs Y has told us that the flights were subsequently cancelled and a partial refund for the 
amendment was received from the travel agent. But circumstances of the situation have 
changed from when Mrs Y first tried to raise a chargeback claim. Ultimately Mrs Y would 
need to refer her concerns about the amendment back to Lloyds following the cancelation of 
the flight and receipt of a partial refund to see if there are grounds to raise another 
chargeback claim. I make no comment on whether any subsequent chargeback claims will 
be successful or not. 
Mrs Y sent Lloyds an email on 21 October 2019 to say she had referred her complaint to our 
service. Mrs Y has explained that she thought her email would lead to another chargeback 
claim being raised. But whilst the email confirms Mrs Y was unhappy with Lloyds earlier 
response, it doesnt ask Lloyds to raise a new chargeback claim. We asked Mrs Y whether 
she had anything to show she had raised another chargeback claim with Lloyds but she 
confirmed that the 21 October 2019 email was the only one she sent. Whilst I can see the 
email confirmed Mrs Y remained unhappy, it didnt ask Lloyds to take any further action. 
As Ive said above, Mrs Y has the option of attempting a further chargeback claim but it will 
be subject to the scheme rules. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds dealt 
with Mrs Ys chargeback claim and subsequent complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman