DRN-2238346
The complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr M between         
March 2013 and November 2017. A summary of Mr Ms borrowing history is below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 08/03/2013 31/05/2013 1 £400.00 £540.00 2
2 14/06/2013 31/07/2013 1 £400.00 £520.00 1
3 01/08/2013 31/01/2014 1 £550.00 £715.00 5
4 01/02/2014 30/05/2014 1 £500.00 £650.00 2
5 02/10/2014 15/01/2015 6 £1,000.00 £416.66 0
6 03/02/2015 27/04/2015 3 £400.00 £213.33 0
Break in lending
7 13/11/2017 13/11/2017 12 £1,500.00 £310.46 0
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loans 3 to 6 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr M as the repayment cost for loan 3 was a significant portion of his income. 
Mr Lender disagreed but it offered to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4. The offer was 
put to Mr M, but he didnt accept it.  
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
There was a significant break in Mr Ms borrowing from Mr Lender. There was a gap of two 
and a half years between loans 6 and 7. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to 
view this gap as an indication that Mr Ms finances had stabilised. So, I will look at Mr Ms 
borrowing in two separate chains. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 1, 2 and 7. Mr M didnt respond 
to the adjudicators explanation. As there appears to no longer be a dispute with these 
loans, I wont be making any further findings on them.  
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the complaint 
about loans 3 to 6. Ill explain why. 
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mr M when he applied for his fourth loan. 
This included verifying his employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. 
I can see that the checks detailed above were carried out. However, I think if Mr Lender 
had properly considered the information it had about Mr Ms financial situation and the 
lending, I think it would have seen that Mr M was not able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because Mr M was borrowing £550, which was due to be repaid in one instalment 
plus interest. This meant that Mr M would be repaying £715 from his declared income of 
£1,750. The repayment represented a significant proportion of Mr Ms income and I think   
Mr Lender ought to have realised this and the potential for Mr M to struggle to make the 
repayment. Given Mr Ms income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of 
Mr M having to borrow again to meet his commitment not just under this loan but for all his loans. I think this was proven when Mr M deferred the repayment of the full amount of this 
loan five times. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4 I say 
this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out four loans in just under 13 months. So,             
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £400 and loan 7 was for £650.  At this point Mr Lender ought 
to have known that it was unlikely Mr M was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan 6 was 
taken out just under two years after Mr Ms first and was for the same amount. Mr M 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 to 
loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 6 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 3 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Ms credit file;
any information recorded about loans 4 to 6 is adverse. So, all entries about these 
loans should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman