DRN-3092575
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot (Santander) wont allow his wife to 
access internet banking.
What happened
Mr R has a Cahoot credit card, which is owned and run by Santander. The limit in June 2021 
was £8,000. His wife has an additional card. Mr R receives paper statements addressed to 
him. He accesses the credit card details using internet banking.
Mr R complains that his wife cant access details about her card using her internet banking 
credentials. This would be useful for her to track her spending and purchases. He says that 
not to do so is discriminatory.
Santander said that Mrs R is an additional cardholder on Mr Rs Cahoot credit card. Its not 
possible to arrange online banking access because shes not the main account holder. The 
credit card is in Mr Rs name, not his wifes. Online banking is a service that allows access to 
account details and operates other functionality. Mr R has allowed an additional cardholder 
to use his credit card account and spend his credit facility. Mr Rs wife cant apply for a 
Cahoot card in her own name as these are no longer offered by Santander. They didnt feel 
their policy is discriminatory as no additional cardholders are allowed access to a Cahoot 
credit card using online banking.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Santander had acted fairly. 
There werent any regulations that says that Santander should offer this service to its 
customers. And  Santander is free to decide how it runs its online banking system as it 
wishes.
Mr R disagreed. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He said that the 
investigator had just rehashed what Santander had said. He also wanted to raise a 
complaint  that Santander had asked him to close his accounts with them  he thinks 
because of the number of complaints hes made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between 
customers and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of Santander  thats the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell business to change their policies or 
practices. So  here, its for Santander to make its own commercial decisions as to how it 
runs its online banking. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and 
reasonably  based on the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
On that basis, Ive considered Mr Rs complaint. He says that his wife should be allowed to 
access the Cahoot credit card details for the card in her name  so she can track her 
spending. And he says that Santander are being discriminatory in not allowing that to 
happen.
I can appreciate that Mr R thinks thats a reasonable thing to ask of Santander  but I think 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably and will explain why. The Cahoot credit card is in Mr Rs 
name. He is the account holder. The credit limit of £8,000 was given to him based on his 
credit standing. What happens with an additional cardholder  his wife - is that she can use 
Mr Rs credit card account. Its not her account. And  shes not liable for any purchases or 
money owed on the card. Ive seen the paper bank statements  and they are addressed to 
Mr R, and sent to his address. Online banking also allows Mr R to change certain things on 
his account. And  so its logical that Mr Rs wife isnt allowed to access Mr Rs account 
using online banking.
Ive looked at the Cahoot terms and conditions. They state that the additional cardholder is 
just that. They are not responsible for the card account, and in this case - Mr R is 
responsible. The terms say Additional cards:
9.1 You can ask us to issue an additional credit card on a cahoot credit card account to 
an additional cardholder.
9.2 An additional cardholder will not be responsible or liable for any purchases, cash 
transactions, interest, fees, charges or other sums charged to your cahoot credit card 
account. You will be responsible for these.
Mr R has said that Santanders policy is discriminatory. I dont think it is  as it applies to all 
additional cardholders, not just a group or some of them. During our investigation, hes also 
raised a new complaint  that Santander have asked him to close his accounts. He thinks 
this is due to the number of complaints hes made. But  as this is a new complaint, we 
havent looked at this  and Mr R will have to raise this in the first instance with Santander.
I can see that Mr R feels strongly about his complaint and will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I think that Santander have acted fairly - and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman