DRN-3855863
The complaint
Ms T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC won't refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 24 November 2022, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both parties a chance to provide any further evidence and arguments before I issued my 
final decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened
In February 2021, Ms T was introduced to what was described as a savings scheme by a 
colleague. Her colleague said that she needed to pay a little over £1,000 to join the scheme 
and if she found two other people to join, she would receive £2,000 back. The group 
members said that she would have a week to bring in further people and they could help her 
do this.
Ms T says that she couldn't find anyone else to join the scheme, so asked whether she could 
sign her sisters up but pay for them. This was agreed and she was told she'd now receive 
£8,000 back. In total she made two payments totalling £3,240.
Ms T says she was convinced of the legitimacy of the scheme because of the involvement of 
her colleague, video calls with a group of people who all said that they'd made money, 
professional presentations by those operating the scheme and good reviews. It appears that 
people Ms T spoke to about signing up to the scheme expressed doubts about its legitimacy 
- even suggesting that they'd lost money in similar schemes in the past. When Ms T couldn't 
get anyone else to sign up to the scheme she asked for her money back but was told it 
couldn't be refunded without someone 'buying her position'.
She reported the matter to Lloyds. It said that the payments weren't covered under the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model "CRM Code" {which obliges 
signatories like Lloyds to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances) as the payments were made to a pyramid scheme - which is illegal in the 
UK. However, Lloyds said that even if the payments were covered under the CRM Code, Ms 
T lacked a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of her payments was legitimate 
and that she was paying for genuine goods or services as she didn't understand what she 
had invested in.
Ms T referred the matter to our service, but one of our investigators didn't uphold it. They 
agreed with Lloyds that Ms T had lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the 
payments - arguing that the rate of return promised to Ms T was too good to be true. They 
also thought that Ms T knew that the scheme was a pyramid scheme and should have 
known that the requirement to bring in other members to the scheme meant it was likely to 
be fraudulent.
Ms T disagreed, she said that Lloyds ought to have done more to protect her from financial 
harm from fraud and had it discussed the payments with her, the fraud would have come to 
light.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What I've provisionally decided - and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to hear that Ms T has lost money here, particularly considering the difficult 
circumstances her family finds themselves in. But I don't think Lloyds has made a mistake by 
declining to refund her money. I'll explain why.
The starting point in law is that Ms T is responsible for payments she's made herself. But, 
I've also considered whether Ms T is entitled to a refund under the CRM Code and whether 
Lloyds did enough to protect Ms T from financial harm from fraud.
I've reviewed a limited number of messages between Ms T and her colleague. It's clear that 
the group relied on new members joining in order to make payments to previous ones. It's 
also clear that this was a pyramid scheme and not a particularly sophisticated one. Unlike 
other schemes of this nature, there doesn't appear to be any pretence of an underlying 
economic activity. Given that operating such a scheme is illegal in the U.K., I'm satisfied that 
the group was a scam.
Lloyds have argued that this matter should be excluded under the CRM Code because Ms T 
didn't believe she was transferring funds for a legitimate purpose. I don't think this is fair. 
While I do think Ms T showed some appreciation that this was, or might have been, a 
pyramid scheme, I don't think she believed that the scheme was illegitimate, illegal or would 
inevitably cause harm to people when it collapsed - and reassurances were given to that 
effect. The fact she paid into the scheme multiple times also indicates she may not have fully 
grasped that by doing so she was potentially increasing her exposure to loss. Overall, I think 
Ms T did believe that she was sending money as part of a legitimate scheme. I also note 
from her comments that the scheme may have superficially resembled informal savings 
schemes that she was familiar with.
So, I think the matter is covered under the provisions of the CRM Code. However, I think that 
Lloyds can fairly rely on one of the exceptions in the CRM Code - that Ms T lacked a 
reasonable basis for believing that her payment was for genuine goods or services.
As mentioned, Ms T shows herself to be aware of pyramid schemes. She is assured that the 
scheme is not a pyramid scheme but 'a community of people that come together to empower 
them self to have financial freedom'. I can't see that she challenges this answer further, 
despite it giving no meaningful insight into how the scheme was different to a pyramid 
scheme.
After making the first payment, Ms T said that she was having difficulty recruiting other 
members to the scheme because she didn't understand how it worked or what it was. I don't 
think it was reasonable for Ms T to have invested in the scheme without this knowledge. 
And, despite the difficulty persuading other people to join and Ms Ts concerns about the 
nature of the scheme, she went on to make a further payment - amounting to two additional 
entries to the scheme.
I appreciate that Ms T was enticed into the scheme by video calls, including testimonials, which suggested that it would be very easy to recruit people, but Ms T made the payments 
without knowing whether she'd be able to persuade anyone else to invest and without a real 
understanding of how the scheme operated. Had she asked friends about the scheme 
before investing (and I think, given she would have needed their participation, it would have 
been reasonable to do so) it appears that several of them would have told her about similar 
schemes they'd been involved in and lost money as a result. Finally, though Ms T has 
mentioned seeing good reviews for the scheme, I haven't seen any evidence these were 
independent reviews from reliable sources.
So, I don't think Ms T had a reasonable basis for believing that her payment was for 
legitimate goods or services and Lloyds can fairly rely on this exception under the CRM 
Code to decline to reimburse her.
I've also considered whether Lloyds acted fairly in relation to its longstanding obligations to 
be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions as well as its obligations 
under the CRM Code. In this case, given the size of the transactions and Ms T's previous 
account activity, I don't think it should have recognised that she was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. So, I don't think Lloyds failed to meet its obligations under the CRM Code and I 
think it acted fairly in letting the payments proceed without further challenge.
In relation to recovery, I can see that Lloyds contacted the bank which received some of Ms 
T's money once the fraud was reported and a very small sum was recovered (the other 
payment went to a Lloyds account). It is worth noting, however, that one of the recipients 
had also been sent payments by Ms T as part of a separate scam. The Lloyds account 
holder who received the other payment appears to have been a victim of the same scheme 
and, as I understand, no funds were returned from that account. Overall, I'm satisfied with 
the attempts made by Lloyds to recover Ms T's money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I've explained, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lloyds nor Ms T had anything further to add, so my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional decision set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman