DRN-3341958
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the transfer he made from his final salary occupational pension
scheme to a personal pension. He considers that Towergate Financial (West) Limited failed
to provide information that was material to his decision to transfer, and therefore he wasnt
put in a position to make an informed decision about it.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 15 February 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set 
out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of that decision here, and it forms part of 
this final decision. 
Mr B had been made redundant from his previous employment. He had deferred benefits in 
the employers final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS). A firm of financial advisers 
was engaged by the sponsoring employer to provide advice to the schemes members about 
the options available to them. That firm has since been acquired by Towergate Financial, 
which is now responsible for the advice it provided to Mr B. Ill refer to the advising firm as 
Towergate for ease through this decision.
Mr B had a meeting with one of the firms advisers on 4 June 2007. A fact-find was 
completed at the meeting and signed by Mr B. This recorded that Mr B wanted to retire at 
age 52, with a net income of £2,000 per month. The fact-find also recorded that Mr B had 
been asked to rank his Retirement Planning Priorities on a scale of 1-6, with 1 representing 
the most important feature. He ranked The ability to retire early as 1, and The security of 
my pension fund as 2.
Mr B has said that he discussed his plans for retirement with the adviser during this 
meeting. He said his initial thoughts were about retiring at age 52 due to his health, the 
nature of his work, and the idea of buying a second property to let out. He said that following 
the meeting he believed the opportunity of receiving the cash incentive in addition to the 
transfer value would enable him to achieve his plans to retire earlier than age 65, and he 
planned to investigate this further.
Mr B has said he was told at this first meeting that as he was considering transferring out 
of the OPS he needed to complete an Insistent Client letter. And the letter was mandatory 
for all those members who wanted to transfer out of the scheme. He said he was told it 
should be completed and returned to the firm d meeting. Mr B says he completed and 
returned such a letter.
A second meeting with the adviser was arranged for 23 June 2007. Mr B says that prior to 
the meeting he carried out an analysis of the benefits of buying a second property, and 
having weighed up all the risks he realised that the possibility of retiring at age 52 was 
unrealistic. So he decided not to pursue that option.
A suitability report dated 20 June 2007 recorded that Mr B had a deferred pension 
payable at age 65 of £24,216. However it said that he could take a cash equivalent 
transfer value of £113,118. In addition, he was offered a cash payment of £110,122 if the 
benefits were transferred out of the scheme. The transfer value including the cash 
payment was £223,240.
The report went onto say that the firm considered Mr B was a cautious to balanced risk 
investor following questions he had answered about his attitude to risk. And that he had 
identified his three main priorities were the ability to retire early, the security of his pension 
fund and to maximise the tax-free cash lump sum at retirement. This was consistent with 
the fact-find.
Mr B has said that instead of buying the second property he intended to use the cash 
incentive to pay off his mortgage and open an investment account which he still holds. He 
said he thought this was the best way of achieving his objective of early retirement. Mr B 
said after taking into account all the information provided by the adviser in the 23 June 
2007 meeting he decided this was his best option. However he said he wasnt made 
aware of the option to retire at age 60 from the OPS, with greater benefits provided over 
his lifetime. The OPS normal retirement date was 65, and he understood that penalties 
applied if benefits were taken prior to that date.
Mr B transferred the benefits from the OPS to a personal pension arrangement in June 
2007. Mr B opted to receive the incentive as a cash payment - just over £110,000 (gross), 
which I understand was around £58,000 after deductions for taxes.
A few years later Towergate carried out a past business review of advice that had been 
given to those members of Mr Bs former OPS that had transferred out of it. Mr B says he 
was told by former colleagues about the review. Mr B contacted Towergate and asked for 
a review. Towergate reviewed its advice. It concluded, in summary, that although it had 
identified a number of areas where the advice could have been improved upon, it didnt 
think any weaknesses in its advice negatively impacted on Mr Bs decision to transfer.
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome of the review and complained. He subsequently 
referred his complaint to us, and one of our investigators considered the matter. The 
investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said that 
Mr B hadnt received advice about the transfer when he was asked to sign the Insistent 
Client letter. The fact find had included a section asking if Mr B had been told to provide an 
Insistent Client letter, and for it to be sent to Head Office within two days. The suitability 
letter also said
While this report needs to be read in full, in summary you wish to transfer your benefits 
away from the [OPS] for the following reasons
The investigator thought this showed there was a pre-determined assumption by 
Towergate that Mr B was going to act against its advice, even before hed actually 
received it. He said this presumption was seen throughout the suitability report.
The investigators view was that Mr Bs overarching goal was to retire before age 65. He 
thought Mr B had decided that buying a second property wouldnt have helped him achieve 
that goal, and that to do so he had instead used the cash lump sum payment to pay off his 
mortgage and hed invested the remainder. The investigator thought Mr B had decided not 
to buy the second property prior to being advised not to transfer. He didnt think Mr B had 
been given a clear explanation of the benefits of staying in the OPS; in particular about 
being able to retire at age 60 without a reduction to the benefits. He said Mr B wasnt a 
pensions expert, and he didnt think Mr B would have understood that he would be better 
off staying in the scheme and retiring at age 60. The investigator thought that if Towergate 
had clearly told Mr B that he could stay in his OPS and receive a level of income at age 60 that was close to or greater than the income he required in retirement, Mr B would have 
opted to remain in the OPS.
Towergate Financial didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that:
It had reviewed Mr Bs case as part of a remediation project which had been 
supervised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The investigators findings 
contradicted the discussions itd had with the FCA about the matter; subsequent 
sampling that had been carried out, and independent verification by a third party 
who conducted TR14/12 relating to Enhanced Transfer Value defined benefits 
advice.
The findings were also inconsistent with other decisions itd had from 
the Ombudsman Service about the same matter.
The investigator had acknowledged that Mr B had been told not to transfer but 
had then said Mr B wasnt a truly insistent customer. It said this was irrational, 
and there was no doubt that Mr B knew he was going against the advice not to 
transfer.
The insistency letter was clearly in Mr Bs own words. It contained a significant 
amount of detail and reasoning, and it showed Mr Bs decision was thought 
through. It said the letter didnt match any of the other letters it had received from 
other clients relating to the same OPS.
Although the investigator had referred to the regulators expectations surrounding 
Insistent Customers, there were no such rules in place in 2007. Guidance had 
been issued since that date. It had discussed its approach with the FCA as part 
of its review, and the FCA was content with its approach on insistency and 
suitability.
Mr B had met with the adviser again in 2012 to take maximum tax-free cash from 
his pension. It thought this demonstrated that Mr B was motivated to access the 
maximum cash available in the shortest period of time. It said it wasnt the actions 
of someone who wanted to preserve their defined benefits.
The investigator responded to say, in summary, that:
The Ombudsman Service considered each case on its own individual merits.
He didnt think the overall process to establish an Insistent Client had been 
followed. Although COBS 9.5A.4 wasnt introduced until 2018, he thought this 
guidance was an amalgamation of what was considered good practice before that 
date. Although it couldnt be applied retrospectively, he thought the general 
principles applied in Mr Bs case. Mr B hadnt been given a personal 
recommendation at the time hed initially wrote the 4 June 2007 letter. So he didnt 
think he could be correctly classed as an Insistent Client.
Mr B took tax-free cash from his pension in 2012 to pay off a second mortgage, as 
he thought this was the best way to help him achieve his aim of retiring as early as 
possible.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to consider.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator said, complaints are considered on their own individual merits. I accept 
that Mr Bs case may have been part of a review that was overseen by the FCA. And his 
case may have been independently verified by an independent third party. However, Im 
bound to consider the matter on the evidence that has been presented to the Ombudsman 
Service, and on the basis of what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint.
Clearly the suitability of a pension transfer is dependent on the particular circumstances 
surrounding it. And here, there was an incentive on offer for members if they transferred 
out of the scheme. Such incentives can appear very attractive, cloud judgements, and act 
as a strong motivating factor behind a members decision to transfer out. I think in these 
circumstances in particular, a members decision to transfer is very much fact specific, and 
whether or not any failures in the firms processes caused a member to make a different 
decision can be a matter of fine judgement.
Mr B has said that a number of his former colleagues received compensation following 
Towergates past business review of advice given to members of Mr Bs OPS. He thinks 
his circumstances are the same, and therefore he should receive compensation. However, 
as I have said above, each case will depend on its own particular facts. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that because other scheme members have received compensation, Mr B 
should also receive compensation. It will depend on his circumstances, objectives, what he 
was told and what he said, amongst other things.
Mr Bs incentive was over £100,000. That was a significant sum in itself, and the incentive 
was around the same amount as the transfer value. I think on the face it, the overall offer 
would have appeared to be very attractive to Mr B, as I think it would to most members of 
an OPS without any particular knowledge or experience of such matters. So I think the 
firms advice was particularly important in the circumstances. And I think it needed to 
provide clear information to Mr B to enable him to make an informed decision.
I accept that the firm advised Mr B not to transfer, and treated him as an Insistent Client. 
Whilst there may not have been any specific Insistent Client rules or guidance in place at 
the time Mr B was advised, the firm was still bound by the Regulators Principles  
including that it had to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The reasons why Mr B wanted to transfer out were set out in the Insistent Client letter 
dated 4 June 2007. The main reason  to buy a second property - was consistent with 
what Mr B has subsequently told us was his thinking at the time. So I think the letter is 
credible in so far as it shows that Mr B thought transferring out was the best way to achieve 
his objectives.
However, as explained by the investigator, Mr B wrote and sent in his Insistent Client letter 
before he had received the firms formal advice. Mr B couldnt make an informed decision to 
insist on going against the advisers recommendation if he hadnt yet seen that 
recommendation, and with all the reasons behind it. I dont think the firm would have had 
due regard to Mr Bs interests if it processed the transaction on his insistence, without having 
a reasonable belief that he was able to make an informed decision about it.
As Ive said above, I do think the incentive would have acted as strong motivation for Mr B to
transfer. So I think whats key is to decide whether it was more likely than not that Mr Bwould have still insisted on transferring from his OPS having had the firms recommendation 
and all the material information to enable him to make an informed decision about it.
When Towergate reviewed the advice it sent Mr B a letter dated 4 September 2020 setting 
out the outcome of the review. Although it identified some weaknesses in the advice 
process, it didnt think that any failings caused Mr B to make a different decision; that is, it 
thought he would have decided transfer irrespective of its compliance failings.
It said:
The primary concern that we identified on your case was around the disclosure of early 
retirement benefits. The normal retirement age of the scheme was 65. However, age 60 
was the most beneficial retirement age for you to retire, as the [name of scheme] 
permitted you to take your pension at this age without any early retirement reduction.
Although not meeting our highest standard, in your case early retirement was explained to 
you. The Suitability Report explained your ability to retire at age 60 on unreduced pension 
on page 4. You were also provided with the Transfer value analysis in Appendix 2 of the 
suitability report; this showed what pension you could expect to receive at both 65 and 60 
(on pages 2 and 3 respectively).
Accordingly, we are satisfied that you were correctly told not to transfer out your benefits, 
and we are also satisfied that you knew you were acting against advice. We reviewed the 
advice process followed and disclosures provided and did note some areas where the 
advice process could have been improved, however we are satisfied that the 
fundamentals of the information that you were provided with was sufficient for you to act 
on an informed basis.
It is not reasonable to conclude that further elaborating on the details of your retirement 
income at age 60, which was already provided, would have outweighed your motivations 
for transferring out and taking the cash incentive. You had a clear and compelling rationale 
for acting against advice. This is strengthened further, by your desire to retire "as early as 
possible".
Mr B has said he didnt want to wait until age 65 to retire, given the nature and pattern of 
his work and problems with his health. He said that he understood from the information that 
had been provided to him that if he took the pension before age 65 his benefits would be 
reduced  such as by 20% at age 60. He said he didnt want to lose pension value from 
anything in the region of 20% or above, so he began to consider alternative ways of being 
able to amass the required funds to be able to retire earlier. This consisted of several plans 
for investment, including the possibility of buying a second property to let. But he said he 
wouldnt have transferred if he had known that he could have taken his benefits unreduced 
from age 60.
So I think that, taking what appears to be the same approach as the firm in its review, 
what ultimately needs to be considered is whether Mr B would more likely than not have 
decided not to transfer out of the scheme if hed been told that the most beneficial 
retirement age was 60 and the reasons for that.
As noted above, Mr B wrote his Insistent Client letter on the same day as his first meeting 
with the adviser. He was told that he had two days in which to write and return that letter.
And as noted by the investigator, the suitability letter started:
ObjectivesWhile this report needs to be read in full, in summary you wish to transfer your benefits from 
the [name of OPS] for the following reasons:
Like the investigator said, this indicates there was an existing assumption that Mr B was 
going to go against the firms advice. Clearly its not possible to know with any reasonable 
degree of certainty what was discussed with Mr B at that first meeting. But he approached 
the second meeting with the decision to transfer out already in his mind  before seeing 
the firms views on the pros and cons of a transfer in the suitability letter. The adviser had 
already set out the path for Mr B to go against the advice not to transfer. So I think the 
content of the suitability letter would have had a lesser impact than if the reasons why the 
firm recommended that Mr B stay in the scheme were explained - in particular given his 
priority of early retirement and how this could be achieved by staying in the scheme and 
then he had the opportunity to decide to go against that advice.
The suitability letter said that a pension of £24,261 would be payable from the scheme at 
age 65. And then said:
Any early retirement benefits to which you are entitled without early retirement penalties 
being applied are detailed in the Transfer Value Analysis Report*. However, these are 
payable without penalty depending on when you became a DEFERRED member of the 
scheme, as follows:
A table was provided explaining what penalties would be applied depending on when 
the member left service. The table did say that the benefits would be unreduced at age 
60 for the date that Mr B became a deferred member. It went onto say:
For transfers previously made into the [scheme name], early retirement penalties 
applicable to those benefits may vary slightly in that any transfers in made between 6th April 
1991 and 5th April 1997, will be eligible for penalty-free benefits at age 65 for both males 
and females.
Mr B had been provided with scheme information which said that the pension would be 
payable at a reduced rate if benefits were taken early  such as 20% at age 60 or 40% at 
age 55. This was in relation to benefits that had been transferred into the scheme.
Mr B refers to Towergate saying he was informed the benefits offered under his 
employers scheme were regarded as better than under a personal pension. However hes 
said that page 2 of the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) document didnt reflect this; he 
said it showed both the annual pension and tax-free cash, and the reduced annual 
pension showing higher returns for the personal pension. And that the values on page 3 
show the estimated tax-free cash and annual pension payable to be higher for a personal 
pension.
Mr B said the figures in the TVAS referred to above werent consistent with the figures in 
the TVAS subsequently sent to him by Towergate when it was dealing with his complaint. 
He said this later version had values that were far less favourable for the personal pension 
than those in the 2007 version.
My understanding is that two TVASs were produced; one based on the full transfer value 
assuming the incentive was included in d on the transfer value not including the incentive 
(£113,118).
The TVAS based on the full transfer value said the projected benefits at the mid-rate of 
return from the OPS was £24,216, or £24,942 from the personal pension. It said if Mr B took tax-free cash of £98,191 the reduced pension would be £14,729 from the OPS. Or he 
could take £157,867 from the personal pension and have a reduced pension of £18,707
For early retirement at age 60, it showed the starting pension from the OPS as £21,028. 
And the starting pension from the personal pension as £16,198. However it went onto 
show that tax-free cash could be taken from the OPS at age 60 of £89,529. With a lower 
annual pension starting at £13,429. This compared to the personal pension which might 
pay £118,076 in tax free cash, and a reduced pension of £12,148.
So it appears that Mr B was referring to the figures in the TVAS based on the full transfer 
value when he said the personal pension benefits were projected as to be potentially higher 
than the OPS. The TVAS based on the £113,118 transfer value showed the projected 
benefits from the personal pension at the mid-rate of return were significantly lower than 
from the OPS at both age 65 and 60. However its not clear that this was given to Mr B or 
discussed with him. The suitability report said the TVAS was included under Appendix 2. 
But this referred to the Full Enhanced Transfer Value Analysis Report  which suggests it 
was the TVAS based on the full transfer value and which Mr B has referred to  rather than 
reports plural which might suggest both reports were included.
The reports said they were for financial advisers and shouldnt be distributed to or relied 
upon by private customers. Given the suitability report focussed on the figures provided in 
the TVAS based on the full transfer value, it seems likely to me that this would also have 
been the focus of the discussions the adviser had with the Mr B.
Towergate has said, Mr B had a clear and compelling rationale for acting against 
advice. This is strengthened further, by your desire to retire "as early as possible". Whilst I 
agree that Mr B had clear reasons to act against its advice, I think the evidence suggests 
those reasons were that he understood he had a better alternative plan to reach his goal of 
retiring early. Mr B said after his first meeting with the adviser his plans changed (from 
what he had said in his Insistent Client letter), as hed realised they werent feasible. He 
says instead of buying a second house to let he was going to use the cash incentive to pay 
off his mortgage and invest the remainder; but again his objective was to retire early.
The suitability report said Mr B wanted to transfer for the proposed purchase of a second 
property for commercial letting. But I think irrespective of which plan Mr B had by the time 
of the second meeting, the firm clearly knew Mr Bs reasons for transferring out were to 
achieve his goal of retiring early. This was clearly set out under Objectives in the 
suitability report:
Early Retirement
You could POTENTIALLY receive greater tax fee cash upon early retirement, although 
there are no guarantees that this will be the case.
You could potentially retire earlier than the normal retirement age of the scheme on a 
higher pension.
This appears to be consistent with the figures in the TVAS based on the full transfer value. 
However the firm were aware that Mr B was intending on taking the incentive as a cash 
payment, and had plans to obtain a return from it in order to retire early.
Although the suitability letter provided generic warnings about the risk of the transfer, it 
didnt address the feasibility of Mr Bs plans, particularly given the impact on the overall 
return he would likely achieve on the incentive payment given hed lose half of it in 
deductions. I dont think the risks involved with Mr Bs preferred option were clearly explained. This was in the context that there appeared to be a seemingly straightforward 
option of staying in the scheme and taking his benefits unreduced at age 60, and without 
risk. As the firm has acknowledged, the fact he could take benefits at age 60 and be better 
off overall than waiting until age 65 wasnt explained to Mr B.
As explained by the investigator, Mr B wasnt a pensions expert. Mr B thought he had a 
better alternative to achieving his objective of retiring early than staying in the scheme. 
Although I accept that the suitability letter provided a number of warnings about the risks 
of transferring, I dont think they were tailored to Mr Bs particular circumstances. Like the 
investigator, I dont think they provided any detailed breakdown of what Mr B could have 
received from the scheme on early retirement, particularly in comparison to Mr Bs 
alternative plans to retire early.
So I think the fact that all the benefits of staying in the scheme and taking benefits at age 
60 werent clearly explained was material in the circumstances of this particular case. If Mr 
Bs overriding motivation to go against the firms advice was because he thought that was 
the best way to retire early, I think it follows it was more likely than not that he would have 
chosen not to transfer if hed been told the best way to achieve this objective was to stay in 
the scheme.
What Mr B has said about his objectives when asking Towergate for a review and in making 
his complaint to us are consistent with the documentation from the time that the advice was 
given. And this was identified in Towergates own review; that his number one priority was 
early retirement, and his second most important priority was the security of his pension. Both 
of these would be consistent with remaining in the scheme and taking benefits at age 60.
So as I say, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think the compliance failing was 
material, and it caused Mr B to make a decision to transfer that he would otherwise not 
have made.
Accordingly, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I asked Mr B and Towergate to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision.
Towergate didnt accept my provisional findings. It said, in summary:
Mr Bs case had been part of a past business review it had been required to 
complete by the FCA. The methodology for the review had been agreed with the 
FCA, and it had revisited Towergates work and sampled a number of cases to 
ensure the review had been carried out correctly. Mr Bs case formed part of that 
sample and had been independently checked. The provisional decision contradicted 
the review methodology and the reviews findings. Other Ombudsmans decisions 
had taken on board the review methodology when deciding the outcome.
The provisional decision mentioned that the incentive on offer acted as a strong 
motivating factor for Mr B. Mr B had a clear intention from the start of what he wanted 
to do with the cash lump sum going into the meeting with the adviser. The decision to 
an offer an incentive for members to leave the OPS was the pension schemes itself, 
and Towergate couldnt be held responsible for the schemes actions. 
The adviser had correctly advised Mr B not to transfer away from the OPS.
Although Mr B had said that he had changed his mind about buying the second 
property between the first and second meeting, this information only came to light when Mr B made his complaint in 2020. It wasnt recorded in the documentation from 
the time, and the adviser was acting on the information that hed been previously 
given. Mr B could have followed the advice and stayed in the OPS if hed had any 
doubts after the initial meeting, however he chose to transfer.
Although there were areas of the initial advice that needed clarification, specifically 
with regard to the unreduced benefits being available at age 60, this omission formed 
the basis of the FCA review; to challenge causation. Based on Mr Bs circumstances, 
the initial insistency letter and later responses to the review, it thought Mr B wanted 
to access the maximum amount of cash available to him and wasnt someone who 
wanted to retain his pension benefits.
It thought Mr Bs challenge to the review and referral to us was motivated by the 
possibility of compensation, as he was aware that some of his former colleagues had 
received it following a review of their individual advice.
The transfer application form recorded that Mr B intended retirement age was 65. 
This contradicted Mr Bs statement that he wanted to retire as soon as possible.
The provisional decision had said the firm should pay Mr B £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B by the lower pension benefits and his inability to retire 
earlier. However if Mr B had followed the initial advice to stay in the OPS he wouldnt 
have suffered any distress and inconvenience. So it didnt think the award was 
warranted.
Mr B said that he agreed with the provisional decision and had no further evidence to 
provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
I havent seen the methodology that was agreed between Towergate and the FCA for its 
review of the advice. But I dont think, from what I have seen, that the approach taken in my 
provisional decision is inconsistent with that general methodology. In brief, Ive considered 
whether there were any compliance failings. And then gone onto consider whether any 
compliance failings identified were material compliance failings in terms of causation, and 
whether Mr B would more likely than not have made a different decision had that compliance 
failing(s) not occurred.
I dont think its in dispute that there was a compliance failing  that Mr B wasnt informed 
about the advantages of taking unreduced benefits at age 60 from the OPS, and how this 
was financially favourable overall. It seems to me that where my findings are different to the 
firms is in deciding whether it was material, and whether Mr B would likely have made a 
different decision had he been given that information in a clear manner.
As I said in my provisional decision, I am bound to consider what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Ive made my decision on the balance of all the evidence and arguments 
that have been provided for this complaint. The firms review was based on the evidence 
collected for its own review.But in any event, as I said in my provisional decision, ultimately, deciding whether Mr B 
would likely have made a different decision is a matter of judgement. For the reasons I set 
out, on the balance of the evidence presented, Im persuaded that Mr B would more likely 
than not have made a different decision about the transfer had he been clearly informed 
about the benefits of staying in the scheme and taking benefits at age 60. 
Towergate has said that the transfer application form recorded Mr Bs intended retirement 
age as 65. However I think the overwhelming weight of evidence as I referred to in my 
provisional decision, and identified in Towergates own review, supports Mr Bs assertion 
that his main priority was early retirement.
Towergate has said that Mr B had a clear intention of what he wanted to do with the cash 
lump sum going into the meeting with the adviser, and the adviser was acting on the 
understanding he was intending to buy a second property. However I dont think the change 
to Mr Bs specific use of the lump sum was material in these circumstances, as his 
motivation to use that money remained the same  to obtain a return from it to help his main 
objective of retiring early. 
As I said, Mr B thought he had a better alternative to achieving his objective of retiring early 
than staying in the scheme.  But the risks involved with Mr Bs preferred option werent 
clearly explained. And there was a straightforward option for Mr B to achieve his objective - 
staying in the scheme and taking his benefits unreduced at age 60, and without risk. As the 
firm has acknowledged, the fact he could take benefits at age 60 and be better off overall 
than waiting until age 65 wasnt explained to Mr B.
Im satisfied that Mr Bs overriding motivation to go against the firms advice was because 
he thought that was the best way to retire early. And I think it follows it was more likely than 
not that he would have chosen not to transfer if hed been told the best way to achieve this 
objective was to stay in the scheme.
So as I say, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think the compliance failing was 
material, and that Mr B would more likely than not have made a different decision but for it. 
I accept that Mr B may have been prompted to complain following compensation being paid 
to some of his former colleagues. But that doesnt mean Mr B is unable to have his 
complaint decided on its merits. And although the incentive was offered by the OPS and 
clearly Towergate wasnt responsible for that decision, Ive considered the matter in light of 
Towergates own particular obligations and responsibilities.
Towergate has said the advice was not to transfer. Again that isnt in dispute, But for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision, it has to be considered in the context of the 
overall circumstances, as is any identified compliance failings and causation. 
Towergate has said it doesnt think the £500 for distress and inconvenience is warranted 
given its advice was not to transfer. However for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Mr B would have made a different decision but for the failings in the advice 
process. Im satisfied that Mr Bs losses flow from those failings. Therefore I think £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as far as its possible into the 
position that he would likely have been in if he hadnt transferred. I therefore intend to order that Towergate Financial (West) Limited calculates and pays compensation to Mr B on the 
following basis. 
Towergate Financial (West) Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision. It should use the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Towergate Financial (West) Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his 
likely income tax rate in retirement  which I think is likely to be 20% here. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the 
date of Towergate Financial (West) Limited receiving notification of his acceptance of 
my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate Financial (West) Limited to 
pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
I also order that Towergate Financial (West) Limited pays Mr B £500 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied he has been caused by the lower pension 
benefits as a result of the transfer and the impact on his ability to retire early.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described 
above. However, I recommend that Towergate Financial (West) Limited pays Mr B the 
balance if it is over £160,000, plus any interest.
This recommendation does not form part of my determination or award. My recommendation 
isnt binding on Towergate Financial (West) Limited.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I order Towergate Financial (West) Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B as I 
have set out under Putting things right above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman