DRN-3064061
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) refused to reimburse 
her after its approved repairer fitted faulty brakes to her car following a theft, which she had 
to have replaced.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs As car was stolen. It was recovered the next day, but the brakes 
were damaged  possibly because of the high speeds at which is was driven during the 
police chase. Mrs A contacted Admiral to make a claim and the car was taken to a garage. 
All four brake discs and pads, as well as other the damage from the theft, were fixed under 
Mrs As insurance policy.
In February 2021 Mrs A noticed that the steering wheel of the car was vibrating, especially 
when braking. Mrs A took the car to the garage that initially did the repairs and it she was 
told that the vibration was being caused by the brakes, and not the steering wheel itself. Mrs 
Mrs A says she contacted Admiral and she was told to have the issue resolved and submit 
the invoice to Admiral for reimbursement.
Mrs A had the brakes fixed at a cost of just over £400 and submitted the invoice and 
payment receipt to Admiral for reimbursement. The garage noted that the discs were 
probably faulty from the time of fitting in December 2020 and were possibly warped. 
Mrs As claim was declined due to general wear and tear of the brakes. 
Mrs A made a complaint to Admiral about this. In its response Admiral said that following the 
initial incident in November 2020 it was noted that Mrs As brakes were almost ready to be 
changed anyway  so it should have asked her for a contribution towards the repair which 
saw new brake discs and pads fitted. It also said that the new brakes that were fitted at this 
time were new and genuine manufacturers parts, so its not possible they couldve been 
faulty or warped at the time of being fitted. Admiral concluded that the failure of the new 
brakes was likely due to excessive heat generation as a result of normal driving. 
As she was unhappy with Admirals response, Mrs A referred her complaint to this service 
for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He thought 
that on the balance of probabilities the brakes that were installed in December 2020 were 
either not fitted correctly, or faulty when they were installed. He said this because Mrs A had 
only driven around 1,000 miles before the issue arose. 
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision and bring matters to a close.
Ive noted that Mrs A has raised several other complaint points with Admiral, both during and 
after the claim. But these appear to have been resolved as the only part that has been 
referred to this service relates to the issue with the brakes. So I wont be commenting on any 
of the other issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint, broadly for the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
In its response to the investigators opinion Admiral provided some comments by its in-house 
engineer. The engineer noted that they werent aware of how Mrs A had been driving the car 
since the brakes were changed, nor the road conditions that Mrs A had been driving on. So 
they maintained that it was entirely possible that the issue that arose in February 2021 was 
a new issue, unrelated to the work that was completed in December 2020. 
Even if I were to accept that theres a very slim possibility that the issues with the new 
brakes had been caused by wear and tear, I think its clear that this is very unlikely. As our 
investigator explained  and as Admiral agreed  a non-faulty and correctly fitted set of 
brakes would be expected to last around 50,000 miles before needing to be replaced. The 
evidence Ive seen shows that this issue arose less than two months after the brakes were 
fitted, during which time Mrs A had driven just over 1,000 miles. I think its reasonable to say 
that its very unlikely that Mrs As style of driving, and indeed the road conditions, wouldve 
caused the new brakes to deteriorate so quickly. So Im not persuaded that wear and tear, or 
the road conditions are to blame here.
Ive also considered Admirals initial assertion that the new brakes were genuine 
manufacturer parts, so theres no chance that they couldve been faulty. I dont agree here. 
Despite best intentions, and no matter who manufacturers a product, its common knowledge 
that mistakes do happen and faulty products always exist. And I think its entirely reasonable 
to say thats most likely what happened here  as this is a much more plausible explanation 
than that provided by Admirals in-house engineer. 
I should note that Admiral has correctly noted that Mrs A was in fact asked to provide a 
written report to it from the garage before instructing the garage to complete the repairs, as 
opposed to having the repairs completed and then submitting the invoice. I accept that Mrs A 
didnt follow the correct process here. But considering the scenario as a whole, that doesnt 
affect my decision about the crux of the complaint in question. Even if Mrs A had followed 
the process and submitted the report, Id still believe the fault in question stems from the 
initial fitting of the brakes, or the brakes themselves. So it doesnt make me think that 
Admiral has acted reasonably by declining to reimburse Mrs A for the brakes she had fitted 
in February 2021.
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and Admiral needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs A £400.28, which is reimbursement 
for having her brakes replaced in February 2021. 
Admiral must also pay Mrs A 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date she paid it to 
the garage until the date Mrs A receives payment. My final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited and I require the 
business to do what Ive said above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman