DRN-3565302
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Nationwide Building Society. She says their cash deposit 
machine did not credit an amount to her account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In January 2022, Mrs S used a cash deposit machine. She says she deposited four 
envelopes worth of cash, with the fourth containing £220. She explained that the machine 
broke down and didnt credit her final deposit. She also complained about the customer 
service she received.
Nationwide did various checks and said Mrs S had only deposited three envelopes worth of 
cash, and the machine had jammed on the third occasion but did credit her account with the 
money. They found no evidence of a fourth deposit of hers. They did accept they should 
have called Mrs S back when they said they would, so they apologised and offered her £50 
compensation for that.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mrs Ss representative was keen to see CCTV footage of what 
happened. But Nationwide didnt have a camera for this machine. And theyre just a building 
society, so they werent able to compel any surrounding businesses to give their footage  
that would normally be something only organisations like the police could do. In any case, 
such footage wouldnt have still been available by the time our service was investigating as 
its only kept for a short time. And if its any consolation, it is unlikely that other businesses 
wouldve had a camera watching Nationwides ATM, and unlikely that the footage would be 
detailed enough to see exactly what happened or be helpful. Ive looked carefully at the 
evidence that is available.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Mrs S made three deposits. The first two went in 
without a problem, whereas the third envelope got temporarily jammed in the machine, 
causing it to suspend itself for a time. According to the logs, this happened on the third 
deposit, and there was no fourth one. This matches up with the three cash envelopes that 
were deposited for Mrs S. The third envelope of cash still credited Mrs Ss account.
The branch staff later checked things and went through every single deposit envelope that 
had been received. They also found there were only three of Mrs Ss. There were no cash 
envelopes that were unaccounted for. And Nationwides servicing team looked at the 
machine and found it was not inherently faulty. I can see that other customers were able to 
successfully use the machine both before and after Mrs S that day. Again, it really looks like 
there was just a temporary jam on Mrs Ss third deposit.
If the ATM had taken a fourth envelope of cash with £220 in it, but not credited it to Mrs S, 
then Id expect it to have had £220 or so of extra cash in it afterwards. But when the machine 
was checked for balancing, the staff member found that it balanced. This also suggests that 
Mrs Ss cash was deposited properly, and that there was not a fourth envelope.
So the evidence I have strongly supports that Mrs S only deposited three envelopes, and 
that all three were credited to her account. And Ive not seen anything which shows or 
substantiates that she put in any cash that was not then deposited. So I dont have a fair 
basis on which to tell Nationwide to credit her account with £220 now. I appreciate that this 
will come as a disappointment for Mrs S, though it is not my intention to disappoint her. But 
given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
Lastly, I also understand that Mrs S is unhappy with the customer service she received from 
Nationwide, such as when they didnt call back. Having looked at what happened, I think 
Nationwides apology and offer of £50 compensation was fair here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman