DRN-1132935
 
The complaint
Mr D and Ms B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited would not release their savings 
earlier than the notice period of their account, which caused them to incur additional costs. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms B held a joint personal savings account with Shawbrook and in November 
2018 gave notice to close the account. Shawbrook started the 120-day notice period before 
the funds would be released, with accrued interest. 
Mr D and Ms B contacted Shawbrook in early January 2019 to request early release of the 
funds. They told Shawbrook that they were needed early to cover an overseas payment.
Shawbrook confirmed at this point that the funds would not be released early, and the 120-
day notice period stood. 
In late February, Mr D and Ms B contacted Shawbrook again to raise the same request. 
They were told at this point that their request could be reviewed and over the following 
weeks they submitted evidence to Shawbrook for consideration. Mr D and Ms B said the 
overseas payment was required imminently.
Shawbrook didnt agree to the early release of the funds. It asked Mr D and Ms B to provide 
further information about why the overseas payment was imminent  but it said it wasnt 
provided with a fixed due date for the payment as it had requested, and therefore it didnt 
agree to early release of the funds. 
In late March 2019 the 120-day notice period expired, and the funds were released to        
Mr D and Ms B. 
Mr D and Ms B complained to Shawbrook that their request for early release hadnt been 
agreed  as they felt their financial circumstances should have met its requirements. They 
also complained that they needed to arrange finance elsewhere to ensure they met their 
overseas payment  and this finance, together with additional interest added to their 
payment because of the delay, left them with additional charges. 
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mr D and Ms Bs complaint. It said withdrawal of the funds was 
subject to the full 120-day notice period. Shawbrook said it did review Mr D and Ms Bs 
individual financial circumstances, but without evidence of a definitive date for their overseas 
payment, it couldnt agree to release the funds early.
Mr D and Ms B didnt accept Shawbrooks response and referred the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommend the complaint be upheld in part. She 
said that Shawbrook was entitled to rely on its 120-day notice period. But that it should have 
reviewed Mr D and Ms Bs request for early release of the funds at the first point they made it aware of their financial circumstances. She made an award of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
Shawbrook responded to our investigator and agreed to the £100 award.
Mr D and Ms B disagreed with our investigator. They said the award didnt cover the 
additional costs theyd incurred as a result of Shawbrooks decision not to release the funds 
early. They wanted the total value of these costs to be awarded, which they say totalled 
£243.26. 
Mr D and Ms B asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked Shawbrooks Key Product Information document, and the terms and conditions 
of the account to see what it would reasonably be expected to do when someone requests to 
access their funds and close their account. 
The Key Product Information document clearly sets out within the initial summary that:
WITHDRAWAL ARRANGEMENTS Withdrawals are only available subject to 120 days 
notice. 
And within the terms and conditions, under the section titled Withdrawal of funds it states:
Withdrawal or closure requests on accounts where there is a notice period will be actioned 
on the expiry of the notice period.
I think the terms are clear in explaining that when a customer wants to withdraw funds or 
close their account, funds would only be released once the 120-day notice period had 
expired. 
Mr D and Ms B say they made Shawbrook aware of their financial situation and the nature of 
the payment  and that Shawbrook should have agreed to release their savings within the 
120-day notice period. But I cant see that Shawbrook acted outside of its account terms and 
conditions by not agreeing to their request.
As our investigator has said, a financial business is entitled to exercise its own commercial 
judgement when considering requests like this, so I wont be making a finding on 
Shawbrooks decision to not release the funds. But I will consider if Shawbrooks actions 
were fair and reasonable based on what Mr D and Ms B told it.
Having considered everything, I do think Shawbrook should have reviewed Mr D and Ms Bs 
request sooner, which would have been in early January 2019 when they first asked it to 
release the funds early. And had this happened Ive considered that Mr D and Ms B would 
have been in an informed position at an earlier point. This could have given them the 
opportunity to request any further evidence they may have felt relevant. 
Therefore, I think Shawbrooks delay in considering Mr D and Ms Bs request caused them 
some distress. And I agree with our investigator that £100 would be fair compensation for 
this.  Ive considered Mr D and Ms Bs comments about other financial businesses releasing their 
funds at an earlier point. But as I think Shawbrook has acted in line with the account terms 
and conditions, I cant fairly or reasonably require it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Mr D and Ms B £100 compensation.
Shawbrook Bank Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr D and Ms B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman