DRN-2313300
Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs A took out an MPPI policy to cover their mortgage. The MPPI provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and they paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs As have said they were told they had to have the MPPI and werent given the 
option to refuse it. Halifax, however, says it would have given Mr and Mrs A a choice and 
would have gained their consent before adding it to their mortgage. 
Halifax isnt able to provide the paperwork from when the sale of the MPPI took place. 
However, this isnt unusual given the sale took place over 20 years ago and businesses are 
not required to keep records indefinitely. Because of this, Halifax also doesnt know how or 
when the MPPI was sold to Mr and Mrs A. So, its asked us to proceed on the basis that the 
MPPI was taken out during a meeting at the same time the mortgage was arranged, which 
seems to be supported by what Mr and Mrs A have told us. 
Because the point of sale information isnt available, I have to base my findings on what I 
think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. In order to uphold this complaint, 
Id need to see persuasive evidence to show that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs A a choice 
when it came to the PPI. Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs As said. But, taking 
into account the time thats passed and the limited information provided by both parties, I 
cant assume that something went wrong, when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest 
that something did. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint on this basis.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt receive any advice from the adviser when they took out MPPI. 
Halifax on the other hand, says it doesnt know whether or not it gave advice, but has 
assumed that it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. This means that it 
needed to ensure that it was right for them and based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr and Mrs A were eligible for the policy, and it 
doesnt look like they would have been affected by any of the significant limitations or 
exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs A have said they would have been entitled to between six and twelve months 
sick pay if they were too ill to work. They have also told us they didnt have any savings or 
other means they could have used to cover the mortgage repayments if they ever fell on 
hard times. Having thought about what Mr and Mrs A have told us about sick pay, I dont 
think this means Halifax was wrong to recommend the MPPI to them. I say this because the 
MPPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay they would have received from their 
employers and also would have paid a benefit if either of them became unemployed. So I 
think the MPPI would have been useful to Mr and Mrs A if they ever became too unwell to 
work or lost their job. It also looks like it was affordable. It follows that I dont think Halifax 
was wrong to recommend the PPI to them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr and Mrs A dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks 
like the policy could have been useful to them. So I dont think better information would have 
stopped them buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs As comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman