DRN-3504687
The complaint
Mr S says Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In January 2018, Mr S borrowed £15,000 from Omni to pay for some dental procedures for 
his friend, Mr K. He borrowed a further £5,500 from Omni in February 2019. Mr S says he 
set up this loan to pay the balance of Mr Ks treatment and for some dental procedures for 
himself. However, he says the dental practice activated this second loan prematurely and 
without his consent. And, before Mr S received any treatment and Mr Ks treatment was 
complete, the dental practice went into administration.
In August 2019, Mr S contacted Omni to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Omni declined his claim. It said section 75 doesnt apply in this case because the specific 
relationship thats required between Mr S, the dental practice and Omni doesnt exist.
Mr S then referred his complaint to our service. And he contacted Omni in February 2020 to 
say he hadnt signed the second loan agreement.
Our investigator didnt think the second loan had been activated prematurely and without 
Mr Ss consent, and she didnt think it was unfair for Omni to decline Mr Ss claim for the first 
loan because she didnt think section 75 applied either. However, she recommended that 
Omni reduce the second loan by the cost of Mr Ss treatment on the basis that section 75 
applied to this element of the loan, and Mr S hadnt received the treatment hed paid for.
Mr S disagrees with our investigators conclusions. He says the dental practice should have 
told him not to borrow the money for Mr K if it meant he couldnt claim under section 75. And, 
understandably, Mr K doesnt think its fair either  he wants Omni to pay for his treatment to 
be completed at another dental practice.
Omni also disagrees with our investigator. First, it explained that Mr Ss testimony about his 
treatment plan doesnt reflect whats said in the emails hes provided between himself and 
the dental practice. Second, the loan agreement includes a Description of Goods and 
Services to be financed by credit. This says, Teeth in a Day Bridge, which is a reference to 
Mr Ks treatment only  it doesnt mention any treatment for Mr S. However, in the absence 
of a treatment plan or invoice for Mr S, Omni contacted a dental practice for the average cost 
of the procedures mentioned in the emails between Mr S and the dental practice (£1,045)  
and its offered to reduce the second loan by this amount.
As the parties disagreed with our investigators conclusions, the case was passed to me for 
a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2022, which explained why I thought Omnis offer to 
reduce the second loan by £1,045 fairly compensated Mr S for the suppliers breach of 
contract. It included the following provisional findings:
Was the second loan activated prematurely and without Mr Ss consent?
Above, Ive explained that Mr S says the second loan was activated prematurely and without 
his consent. However, its clear from his testimony and the emails Ive seen that he agreed 
to borrow the money to pay the balance of Mr Ks treatment and for some treatment for 
himself. Omni has explained that the loan agreement was emailed to Mr S for him to sign 
electronically  and its provided an audit trail which indicates thats what he did. Its also 
provided the audit trail for the first loan  and theres no discernible difference between the 
process followed for the first loan, which Mr S accepts he signed, and the second loan. Omni 
says an employee from the dental practice would need access to Mr Ss email account and 
password for the loan agreement to have been signed electronically without his consent.
All things considered, Ive seen insufficient evidence that the second loan was activated 
prematurely and without Mr Ss consent.
Mr Ks treatment
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Mr S is the debtor and Omni is the creditor. However, the dental practice, which is the 
supplier, almost certainly entered into an agreement with Mr K not Mr S for the treatment 
financed by the first loan and part of the second loan. I say this because, although theres 
limited paperwork available, its clear the loans financed dental procedures for Mr K and only 
the patient can consent to and receive such treatment.
I know Mr S and Mr K will be very disappointed, but this means there isnt a debtor-creditor- 
supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) for the first loan or the part of the 
second loan that financed Mr Ks treatment  which means section 75 doesnt apply.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr S and Mr K  theyre in a very difficult situation 
through no fault of their own. However, because of what Ive said above about the absence 
of a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, Omni isnt responsible or legally answerable 
for the suppliers breach of contract with Mr K or any potential misrepresentation about this 
contract. Therefore, I dont think it was unfair for Omni to decline this element of Mr Ss 
section 75 claim.
Mr Ss treatment
Based on the emails Ive seen between Mr S and the dental practice, I think its clear some 
of the money he borrowed was to pay for treatment for himself. To this extent, Im satisfied 
that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and that section 75 of the CCA applies to 
this element of Mr Ss borrowing. This means Omni is legally answerable for any breach of 
contract by the supplier. It's accepted by all sides that the dental practice went into 
administration before Mr S received any treatment and there was, therefore, a breach of 
contract.
Two questions remain: what did Mr S pay for and how much did it cost?
Mr S says he was supposed to have teeth whitening, one or some filings, a veneer and a 
tooth removed. Ive reviewed the emails between Mr S and the dental practice. One simply refers to crown/filling/teeth whitening. Another says:
[Mr S] was originally going to his [sic] crown done, fillings and get free teeth 
whiteninghe has I believe a false tooth so we just need to review what was done by 
the previous dentist.
Omni contacted a dental practice to ascertain the average cost of the procedures mentioned 
either by Mr S or in the emails. Ive included this information below:
1 x crown £850
Filling £130
Tooth removal £120
1 x veneer £850
Teeth whitening £480
False tooth investigation/examination £65
In the absence of a costed treatment plan or invoice for Mr S, I think this is a fair way of 
calculating the cost of the various procedures.
Omni, relying on the email Ive quoted above, has offered to reduce the second loan by 
£1,045  which is the cost of one crown (£850), one filling (£130) and a false tooth 
examination (£65). As the email specifically says the teeth whitening is free, I dont think its 
unfair for Omni to exclude this. I note that Mr S mentions a veneer but not a crown, whereas 
the emails refer to a crown but not a veneer. As they cost the same, I dont think this matters 
 but, to be clear, I think he paid for one, not both. And as the emails dont mention a tooth 
removal, I dont think Omni needs to reduce the loan by the cost of a tooth removal too.
I appreciate that one email refers to fillings (plural) and the other refers to filling (singular). 
In an email to us, Mr S also used filling (singular) but when he spoke to our investigator, he 
said he was supposed to have some fillings. Given the ambiguity, I dont think its unfair for 
Omni to reduce the second loan by the cost of just one filling. However, if Mr S has any 
additional evidence which shows he paid for more than one filling, he can send it to me when 
he replies to this provisional decision.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Omnis offer to reduce the second loan by £1,045 
fairly compensates Mr S for the suppliers breach of contract.
Mr S has confirmed that hes received my provisional decision. He says he doesnt think its 
fair, but he hasnt asked me to consider any further comments or evidence.
Omni has confirmed that its received and accepts my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Omni has accepted my provisional decision, and Mr S hasnt asked me to consider any 
further comments or evidence, I confirm my provisional findings. My reasons remain the 
same.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I direct Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to reduce Mr Ss second 
loan balance by £1,045.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman