DRN-1116149
The complaint
Ms A complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) withdrew funds from her 
account following a chargeback claim by a third party and then delayed in reimbursing her, 
causing her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. For ease of reading, Ill refer to 
the funds which were withdrawn from Ms As account as the Disputed Sum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On balance, I find it likely that Ms A provided PayPal with the evidence needed to 
defend the chargeback as soon as she became aware this was required. I think that 
happened in around May or June 2019  before Ms A came to this service.
I dont find that PayPal communicated with Ms A enough about the chargeback 
claim. If theyd done more, I think her evidence would have been acted upon earlier 
and Ms A wouldnt have been deprived of the Disputed Sum for so long.
But Ms A had to bring the complaint to this service in order for PayPal to address the 
issue. She provided the evidence to our investigator early on, which confirmed she 
had sent the item to her buyer. At that stage, PayPal reimbursed the Disputed Sum. I 
dont think it should have been necessary for Ms A to involve this service for this to 
happen and I think PayPal are responsible for the delay. So I think they need to pay 
interest on the Disputed Sum from the date they withdrew it from Ms As account (24 
April 2019) to the date they repaid it (19 August 2019).
Ms A has described the impact this issue had. She was deprived of the Disputed 
Sum for around four months and says she wasnt able to go on holiday without that 
money. The situation was stressful and very frustrating. And Ms A was only able to 
achieve a satisfactory outcome by escalating the complaint to this service. So I think 
a payment of compensation is warranted here.
Our investigator recommended compensation of £150. Ms A doesnt think this is 
enough to reflect what happened. Its difficult to put a monetary value on the stress 
and inconvenience caused by a situation like this. Our awards arent intended to 
punish a business, but to reflect the impact of their mistake and put that right so far 
as possible. Looking at the situation overall, I think £150 is a fair amount of 
compensation here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should:
Pay Ms A simple interest of 8% a year on the Disputed Sum to cover the period from 
24 April 2019 to 19 August 2019 (less any applicable tax); and
Pay Ms A compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman