DRN-3415659
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) wont allow him to take a 
lump sum from his Freedom Bond. He has said that when the policy was sold to him it was 
his understanding that hed be able to take a cash lump sum from the policy. Mr A is also 
unhappy with the value of his pension fund.
What happened
In 1989, Mr A transferred preserved benefits under a previous employers pension scheme 
into Freedom Bond with Phoenix  previously known as Pearl. In 1999, the sale of Mr As 
plan was reviewed and he received redress as part of the industry wide pension review. 
 
In 2021, Mr A complained to Phoenix that he was unable to take a cash lump sum from his 
pension. Phoenix responded to Mr As complaint and explained that the the original transfer 
advice had already been reviewed under the pension review which was a one-off exercise. It 
also explained that Mr As plan must provide a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) and 
due to the value of the plan there was no further benefits available so it couldnt pay Mr A a 
lump sum. And finally, it said that the plans value is based on investment performance 
which cannot be guaranteed. 
 
Mr A referred the complaint to this service. He has said that at the time he started the policy 
it was his understanding that he could take a lump sum from this pension. 
 
One of our Investigators reviewed the submissions from both parties but didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. The Investigator explained that the terms and conditions set out the way in which 
benefits can be paid out under Mr As Freedom bond. And the value of Mr As pension 
meant there was no excess for a lump sum to be paid due to the cost of providing the GMP 
on Mr As plan. The Investigator also noted that the retirement pack sent to Mr A explained 
that the requirement to provide the GMP could restrict the options available at his retirement. 
 
Mr A didnt accept the Investigators findings so the complained has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ive explained why below.
 
Ive not considered the original advice to transfer because it was included in the industry 
wide pension review. This was a one-off exercise and Phoenix are not obligated to revisit the 
review. 
The crux of the complaint here is the way in which Mr A wishes to take his benefits. 
Mr As Freedom Bond is a Section 32 buy-out plan. This was set up to receive a transfer 
payment from his previous employers pension scheme. Because Mr As former employer 
chose to contract out of the state second pension (also known as SERPS) they were 
required to provide Mr A with a pension equivalent to the state benefits given up  the GMP. 
When Mr A transferred these benefits to his Phoenix Freedom bond the responsibility for 
providing that GMP passed to Phoenix. 
The theory behind Section 32 plans was that rather than leaving the pension in an old 
employers pension scheme, the money would be transferred, and then invested. The 
expectation was that the investment growth would give a better pension than leaving it with 
the old pension scheme. So there was the potential for the fund to have a surplus in excess 
of the GMP. But regardless of fund performance, the insurer  in this case Phoenix - 
accepting a transfer into the Section 32 plan essentially promised to provide at least the 
GMP at retirement.
 
So whilst I appreciate Mr A will find this outcome disappointing, the type of pension plan he 
holds requires Phoenix to pay a minimum level of benefit. Phoenix has explained that the 
cost of providing Mr A this income (his GMP) exceeds the fund value built up and so Phoenix 
will make up that difference. What this means, however, is that there are no further funds 
Mr A can access as a cash lump sum  the entirety of Mr As plan must be used to meet the 
GMP as per his policys terms and conditions. 
In 2015 the government introduced new rules which meant that some individuals (in certain 
circumstances) were able to access their pensions as a lump sum. However, Mr As plan 
pre-dates this and the new rules, sometimes referred to as pension freedoms, dont alter 
Phoenixs obligation to provide Mr A with his GMP. 
 
Phoenix is administering the policy as per the plans terms and conditions in meeting the 
requirement to pay Mr A the GMP attached to his pension. 
Mr A also has concerns about the performance of his plan. Im not looking at the sale of the 
plan so I havent seen the original paperwork. But I think its unlikely the plan has performed  
as predicted in any illustrations produced at that time. The regulator at that time specified the 
standard growth rates that pension illustrations had to be based on, those being a lower rate 
of 8.5%, mid-rate of 10.75% and higher rate of 13%.  Unfortunately, the hoped for growth 
rates havent been reached - far from it. This is not unique to Mr As plan, investments 
across the board havent performed as expected. Across the industry most investment 
classes have had problems. The economic and regulatory situation is very different now 
from what it was in the late 1980s when the policy was sold. That doesnt mean that Phoenix 
has done anything wrong with the way it has invested Mr As plan and Im not aware of the 
regulator having any concerns about Phoenix in this regard. 
I do appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed his plan hasnt performed as hoped and that 
there are no excess funds which he can take as a lump sum. However, the very nature of 
investments means theyre not guaranteed and just because an investment hasnt performed 
well doesnt necessarily mean that the business has done anything wrong. For these 
reasons, I dont think Phoenix has been unfair by not allowing Mr A to take a lump sum from 
his plan. And Im not asking it to take any further action with regards to Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited .  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman