DRN-2981551
The complaint
Miss M complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Miss M as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableLoan status
 1 5/9/2016 £2,000 24 months £214.63 £5151.12 Paid on 27/11/17 
using loan 2
 2 27/11/17 £3,000 24 months £308.59 7,406.16 Still outstanding
Miss M told us that her mental health was not good at the time because of spiralling debt 
and that this had not only affected her credit rating but also her future security and wellbeing. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Miss M with the loans and he set out the steps that needed to be taken to put 
things right. 
Everyday Loans responded by telling us that it accepted what our adjudicator had said about 
upholding loan 2. But it disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loan 1.
In summary, Everyday Loans said that whilst Miss M had some adverse credit history the 
loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, it would be used to repay other debt 
and so put Miss M in a better position. Everyday Loans also said that its affordability 
calculation was extremely generous. And whilst the repayment of credit was around a third 
of Miss Ms income, she lived with parents and her bank statements supported its view that 
her living expenses were significantly below average.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss Ms complaint. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss Ms complaint.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. 
For loan 1, Everyday Loans gathered information from Miss M by asking her about her 
income and expenses and looking at some of her recent bank statements before it agreed to 
lend to her. It also checked Miss Ms credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was 
satisfied that the loan was affordable for Miss M.  
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the comments it has 
made in response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair 
lending decision when it provided loan 1. 
I say this because I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what 
Miss Ms credit history and the information it saw in the bank statements revealed about her 
overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see the extent of Miss Ms 
existing borrowing and in particular her reliance on credit cards and mail order accounts as 
well as loans from other expensive high cost credit providers.
I think Everyday Loans couldve seen that there were eleven outstanding revolving credit 
accounts shown on Miss Ms credit file. 
This included four credit cards which were all effectively up to their account limit. Two of 
these accounts were shown as being in debt collection  along with another loan account. 
Miss Ms other active revolving credit was made up of seven mail order accounts. All in all, Everyday Loans recorded information that showed the outstanding balances on Miss Ms 
credit cards and mail order accounts added up to £6,556.
As well as this, Everyday Loans was aware that Miss M had three payday loans outstanding. 
Miss Ms credit history showed that managing her debt had got beyond her control  
Everyday Loans saw that she had been unable to pay her existing contractual credit 
commitments even though she was still taking out expensive high cost credit to supplement 
her income.
And according to the information Everyday Loans had gathered, Miss M was already paying 
around a third of her take home pay just on servicing her existing debt. To me, that was a 
clear warning sign that she was over-reliant on credit  and the fact that she wasnt 
responsible for paying housing costs or bills doesnt affect my view on this point. I think 
Everyday Loans should have been especially concerned about why a person in Miss Ms 
particular financial situation, especially as it thought she would have more than average 
spending money compared to people in similar circumstances, still needed to use so much 
expensive credit. 
I think that Everyday Loans saw enough to realise that whatever its affordability checks 
appeared to show, it would be irresponsible to lend further to Miss M when it was evident 
that she was already failing to manage her existing debt  and this loan risked adding to her 
overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. I've taken into account that the loan was 
intended for debt consolidation. But Everyday Loans didnt have control over this  it paid the 
money direct to Miss M. 
Everyday Loans worked out that after using its loan to clear debt that was previously costing 
Miss M around £252 each month, her new monthly repayments on this loan represented an 
overall saving on her monthly repayments. 
But I think the scale of her overall debt and the extent of her evident money problems, 
compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. 
And even after taking out this loan and using it to pay some of her other debt, it looked like 
Miss M would still need to spend around a third of her take home pay on her contractual 
credit repayments  and more than this if she was really going to be able to make any 
meaningful inroads into clearing her debt within a reasonable period of time by making more 
than the minimum monthly repayments on her cards and mail order accounts. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Miss Ms monthly income this was a 
further reason why Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Miss M would 
be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way. 
So, for all these reasons, I am upholding Miss Ms complaint that she should not have been 
given loan 1.
As Everyday Loans has already agreed to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 2 I dont 
need to say any more about this other than to include it in my directions for putting things 
right.
I agree with the redress suggested previously by our adjudicator but I've set out what 
Everyday Loans needs to do using simpler wording so its easier to understand how Im 
putting things right. Miss M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with. Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what Everyday Loans did wrong. So, I think Everyday Loans needs to take the 
following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss M shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss M keeping in mind its 
obligation always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman