DRN-2912208
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc restricted her account and then, following the 
provision by Miss P of the information that Santander had requested, caused delays to the 
unrestricting of her account. 
What happened
On 2 July 2020, Santander restricted Miss Ps account following a receipt of credits into the 
account. On 16 July 2020, Miss P visited a local branch and provided Santander with 
information demonstrating the legitimacy of the credits received. 
Following this, Miss P made numerous calls to Santander seeking an update on when the 
restrictions would be removed from her account. It was later discovered that the information 
Miss P had taken into branch hadnt been forwarded to Santanders investigation team. On 
29 July 2020, Miss P resent the information to Santander via email. On 3 August, Santander 
completed their investigation into Miss Ps account and removed the account restrictions.
Miss P wasnt happy with what had taken place, including that shed been asked to visit 
branch during a pandemic, or that Santander hadnt correctly forwarded the information that 
shed taken into branch. So, she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Miss Ps complaint. They acknowledged that the investigation had 
taken longer than it should have done because Miss Ps information hadnt been forwarded 
correctly when she supplied it in branch. So, they upheld Miss Ps complaint and apologised 
to her. Santander also offered to make a payment to Miss P of £200 to compensate her for 
any distress or inconvenience incurred.
Miss P didnt think that Santanders offer went far enough, so she referred her complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Santanders 
response to Miss Ps complaint, including the offer of £200 compensation, represented a fair 
outcome to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this  where a business has acknowledged that it made an error  
what this service would expect would be that the business would take the steps necessary to 
correct the error and, if appropriate, make an offer of payment to fairly compensate the 
customer for any distress of inconvenience the customer may have incurred.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, I think that Santander have already 
done that here. Theyve acknowledged that their investigation into Miss Ps account had 
been delayed unnecessarily as a result of the information supplied by Miss P not being 
forward as it should have been, and theyve apologised to Miss P and offered to make a 
payment of £200 to compensate her for any trouble and upset the delay may have caused.
Matter of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one party not being considered as being such by another party. However, while I appreciate 
that Miss P may disagree with me, the £200 already offered to Miss P by Santander does 
feel fair to me, and I confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, 
given the circumstances here.
I understand that Miss P also feels that it was unnecessary for Santander to have asked her 
to come into branch in July 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic was still in effect, and I note 
that Miss P was living with an elderly person at that time and that she was concerned about 
her exposure to the Covid-19 virus because of this. 
I can appreciate Miss Ps points here. However, at that time, Covid-19 related restrictions in 
England were lifting and many businesses had reopened. And while I feel that it would have 
been preferable for Santander to have facilitated Miss P supplying the information by email if 
possible, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Santander to have asked Miss P to visit 
branch if they deemed it necessary, and I dont feel that any further compensation is merited 
in regard to this point.
Miss P has also stated that she was told on several occasions by Santander staff that the 
restrictions on her account would be lifted within a short time - only for this not to take place. 
I can appreciate how this would have been frustrating for Miss P but having listened to 
several recorded telephone calls supplied by Santander, I havent heard any instance of 
Miss P being given such information.
This doesnt necessarily mean that Miss P wasnt told by Santander that her account 
restrictions would be lifted shortly, only for that to then not take place. However, given that 
this service is an impartial dispute resolution service, I dont feel that it would fair or impartial 
for me to censure Santander for providing Miss P with misleading information when Ive 
been unable to verify that such misleading information was indeed provided. 
This means that Im satisfied that the response to Miss Ps complaint already issued by 
Santander, including the offer of £200 compensation, does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Santander to take any further action here, beyond which theyve already agreed. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss P was wanting, but I hope that she can 
understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman