DRN-3418048
The complaint
Mr B says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on the accounts be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about the catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Mr B. 
Account A was opened in January 2013 with Mr B being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
This limit was increased 4 times until it reached £900 in June 2013. 
Account B was opened in December 2017 with Mr B being given an initial credit limit of 
£125. This limit was not increased. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. He thought that Account A and its 
increases were not unreasonable lending decisions. He also thought that J D Williams 
ought to have realised that Mr B wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit 
on Account B by the time it offered Mr B that credit. 
Both parties agreed with the adjudicators assessment of the merits of this case and J D 
Williams offered to arrange the redress as specified. So, in the absence of any argument 
about the merits of the complaint, I propose to say nothing more about them in this 
decision. 
Mr B was happy with the suggested redress but is concerned that J D Williams hasnt 
proceeded as agreed. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
In the assessment the adjudicator explained how J D Williams should put things right. He 
said,
How to put things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right, its fair and reasonable 
for JD Williams to refund any interest and charges incurred by Mr B as a result of 
the credit unfairly granted to him.
I dont think account J4613156 shouldve been opened in December 2017. 
Therefore, JD Williams should remove any interest and charges incurred on this 
account.
JD Williams should work out how much Mr B would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mr B made since December 2017 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr 
B along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr B no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file 
from December 2017.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, JD Williams should look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mr B for the outstanding amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
I think that this is the correct redress for this case. 
So, I think that J D Williams should put things right as detailed above. 
Putting things right
J D Williams & Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above. J D 
Williams has told us it has already done so. But, for transparency, it ought to provide Mr B 
with its workings  how it calculated the amount it rebated against the existing debt. 
And Mr B needs to be aware that the debt has been sold to a third party. So, it is not for J D 
Williams to arrange an affordable payment plan for the remaining amount. Mr B can contact 
the third party that holds the debt if he wishes to do so. If Mr B feels the debt purchaser 
arent treating him fairly, he can raise a separate complaint about their actions with them, if 
he wishes to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman