DRN-3942759
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system including grid-trading battery and voltage optimiser (the system). 
Mrs Q is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs Q bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over ten years. 
In January 2022, Mrs Q engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Shawbrook a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its 
contract with Mrs Q, and that Mrs Qs relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on her 
because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the savings summary 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were misleading and inaccurate.
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The benefits achieved by Mrs Q are significantly less than those shown in the quote, 
so the quote was not prepared with reasonable care and skill. 
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim. The CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. One of our adjudicators considered the matter and didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. The CMC disagreed but provided nothing further to be 
considered. Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mrs Q during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
her at that time. So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely 
discussed before Mrs Q agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £9,900.00. However, the overall cost to Mrs Q was more, due to her paying 
for the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options in a section titled your agreement  all of our 
payment options, including one over 120 payments of £116.84 per month. This was £1.48 
per month less than the actual monthly payment shown on the credit agreement. But I think 
Mrs Q wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost per 
month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 120 monthly 
payments of £118.32. It shows the total amount payable would be £14,298.40 including the 
£100.00 deposit. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mrs Q would pay for 
the system was made clear to her when she agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimiser savings were misleading and inaccurate.
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. How P calculated the savings was also explained in 
the quote. 
The quote also included various warnings in the frequently asked questions section:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures. 
The savings are based on case studies and your existing bills, these figures could go 
up or down. 
The energy saving optional extras are based on figures or systems illustrated. These 
figures could go up or down based on your own lifestyle and size of system and 
should be used as a guide only. 
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mrs Qs home and how she used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the savings summary table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system more attractive.
The savings summary table would have been clearer if it had included the cost of credit. 
However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the documents 
that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mrs Q knew what 
she were paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the credit 
agreement. So, she could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding to buy the 
system.
The your agreement  all of our payment options table showed the annual benefit would 
not exceed the annual loan repayments during the ten-year loan term. And the what will you 
earn and save per year table showed it would be about 15 years before the overall benefits 
of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
Allegation  The benefits achieved by Mrs Q are significantly less than those shown in the 
quote, so the quote was not prepared with reasonable care and skill. 
I think that P used reasonable assumptions when providing the quote and the estimated 
benefits of the system. This was based on one or a combination of standard assumptions 
used in the industry at the time, what P knew about the products it was selling, what P knew 
about Mrs Qs home and how she used electricity. It also made assumptions about inflation 
rates looking into the future, based on historic Office of National Statistics (ONS) data.
I dont think the difference in benefits experienced by Mrs Q shows there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P. The quote includes various warnings that the 
benefits will depend on how Mrs Q uses electricity within her home and that the benefits and 
actual inflation rates may be higher or lower than shown. The benefits realised will depend 
on how Mrs Q uses electricity in her home, which is outside the control of P and could vary.
I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
Allegation  the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
The CMC has pointed to between 10% and 30% of cases it had seen against P where the 
inflation data used did not match the underlying ONS data it referred to. This does not strike 
me as a systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every case. 
This appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or 
deliberately done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being 
used  thereby making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been 
the case if no error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, 
not more. 
In this case it appears there was no error in the inflation rate used. So, there was no 
detriment to Mrs Q in this case. The quote warned that inflation may be higher or lower than 
the rate used. I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. 
And I dont think it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual 
inflation has not matched Ps assumption. Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mrs Q. I 
think the information provided to Mrs Q before she agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mrs Q before she agreed to the purchase.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I do not think that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mrs Q due to the way P sold the system to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman