The complaint
Mr H complains about charges applied to his accounts by Nationwide Building Society in the 
last six years. He said this had caused financial hardship, and he wanted all these charges 
to be refunded, with interest.
What happened
Mr H wanted Nationwide to pay back the charges hed incurred for direct debits, 
unauthorised overdrafts, and standing orders for the last six years. He explained in detail his 
personal circumstances, the financial situation hed been in, and how the charges 
Nationwide had applied had contributed to his difficulties. He wanted Nationwide to pay back 
£1,080 of charges, and add £100 of interest. 
Nationwide said that it hadnt known Mr H was in financial difficulties, and it didnt think it 
shouldve realised this. It paid Mr H back a small amount of recent charges, but it wouldnt 
do more than that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He explained we cant look at 
whether charges were unfair. He said hed look at whether charges were applied correctly, 
and whether Nationwide treated Mr H fairly once it was aware of his difficulties. 
Our investigator sympathised with the difficulties that Mr H experienced when he was out of 
work, and Nationwide wouldnt give him an overdraft. But Nationwide doesnt have to lend to 
him. It makes a lending decision based on a number of factors, and if Mr H doesnt meet its 
criteria it wont lend. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide shouldve realised that Mr H 
was in financial difficulties before he told it that. When he did tell Nationwide he was in 
financial difficulties, it refunded £30 across both accounts as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator thought that Nationwide had only applied charges in line with its terms and 
conditions, and it had acted fairly when Mr H told it about his financial difficulties. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree. He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for the final stage of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
DRN-1671780Our investigator has explained that a court case from 2009 means that our service cant 
consider charges for unauthorised overdrafts. These cant be challenged on the grounds that 
theyre too high. So, like our investigator, I cant look at that. I can consider if the charges 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I havent seen anything to 
suggest to me they werent. 
Ive looked carefully at Mr Hs statements from the relevant time, and I also think that his 
accounts were relatively well run. Mr H has told us about the problems he was having, and 
that he only managed with the help of loans from friends. But I dont think Nationwide 
necessarily ought to have realised that. I dont think it shouldve realised, from the conduct of 
Mr Hs accounts, that he was having financial difficulties. 
I can also look at what happened when Mr H told Nationwide he was having financial 
difficulties. We expect businesses to be positive and sympathetic in these circumstances. I 
can see that Nationwide refunded recent charges on both accounts. I can also see that when 
Nationwide has written to Mr H to tell him about charges on his accounts, it has suggested 
sources of further support if he is finding it difficult to manage. 
Mr H also said it was unreasonable and unfair for Nationwide to refuse to lend him money 
when he was having problems making ends meet. But, as our investigator explained, banks 
and building societies make their own, very detailed, assessment of whether or not to lend to 
someone. Our service wont usually interfere with that decision. 
I know that Mr H feels very strongly about this, so I do realise hell be very disappointed by 
my decision. But I dont think Nationwide has been unfair or unreasonable. And it hasnt 
failed to do anything I would expect it to do, to help someone in Mr Hs positon. So I dont 
think Nationwide has to do more now. And that means I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman