DRN-3825765
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to recover a 
payment it had made for an item it discovered wasnt genuine.
What happened
S bought an item online for £149.99. When it received this, it says it wasnt genuine. It raised 
this with Starling Bank and provided the evidence it asked for. A chargeback was raised. S 
says that it didnt receive a request by email saying that the seller had contested this. And 
that even if it had it had already provided all the evidence. S wants the payment to be 
refunded.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It had submitted the chargeback. But 
this had been contested. And it had contacted S on 16 March 2022 and then 23 March 2022 
to ask it to review the merchants evidence and provide rebuttal points. These messages 
and the evidence were sent by email and there were also in app messages. The deadline for 
a response was 30 March 2022 in order to continue the dispute and this was due to 
timeframes set out under MasterCards guidelines. Starling Bank explained that these set 
out that the evidence must be reviewed by the cardholder and rebuttal points provided. So, it 
said it couldnt do anything more.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought that 
Starling Bank had enough information to continue the dispute without any further 
involvement from S. The merchant alleged that it hadnt had any contact from S and that the 
items hadnt been returned for a refund. But S had shown it had tried to obtain a refund 
through the online portal of the merchant and had provided an email of its attempts to 
contact the merchant by email. There was no requirement to return counterfeit goods under 
MasterCard rules for a chargeback to continue. And S had told Starling Bank that it had the 
goods when it raised the dispute and had tried to get a refund. S had provided evidence that 
the goods werent genuine. So, he thought Starling Bank had deprived S of the opportunity 
to obtain a successful chargeback. He said that the refund should be applied back from the 
date that chargeback was denied. And that S be paid £50 in compensation.
Starling Bank didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It said that it didnt 
agree with our investigators interpretation of what was required to continue with the 
chargeback. And it said that S hadnt responded and so it couldnt pursue this further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked through our investigator for some more information from Starling Bank and in light of 
this if it wanted to reconsider its position. In response it said that the second presentment by 
the merchant was on 4 March 2022. And that the 45-day time period for rebuttal ended on 
18 April 2022. It confirmed as a result that the deadline of 30 March 2022 for C to respond 
was an internal one. It also confirmed that it had submitted all S evidence initially. And it 
said that the response of the merchant in light of what seemed to be compelling evidence 
was outside its control. It referred to the messages sent to S which said that it needed 
updated comments. The merchants comments werent rebutted in a tangible way and S 
could have asked about the requirement if it wasnt clear. No further evidence was required 
other than S written rebuttal and it referred to the MasterCard guidelines stating that this had 
to be dated after the merchants comments. So, it stood by its position on the complaint.
I note that S didnt respond to the messages of 16 and 23 March 2022 Id seen. When 
Starling Bank sent its business file to this service it said that due to a limitation in its 
customer management system only one email address could be linked to the account. So, it 
didnt seem that the director who was dealing with this issue for S was receiving emails. In 
any event he did see the message of 30 March 2022 saying that the temporary credit would 
be refunded.
I appreciate that the chargeback process is determined by the relevant scheme rules and 
that Starling Bank doesnt make a decision on the chargeback. It does seem here that there 
was the prospect of a successful rebuttal and I need to think about whether that should have 
happened.
There were 45 days for this process. It is unclear to me what Starling Bank did between the 
date of the representment on 4 March 2022 and its first contact with S. And I say that in 
particular because its message of 16 March 2022 seemed to be a standard one which made 
no reference to the particular circumstances of this case. Or in my view linked the 
requirement to the specific card scheme rules as clearly as it had later done in the final 
response letter. It set a deadline for response of 30 March 2022. While it would need to have 
time to deal with any comments from S, as it wasnt expecting new evidence it had it seems 
18 calendar days to send S comments  noting that as it has explained these had to come 
from S and it couldnt respond on its behalf.
A director of S did write to Starling Bank on 31 March 2022 saying that I sent the evidence 
in months ago. Here it is again. On 1 April 2022 Starling Bank responded and said that 
This is unfortunately not what we were asking for and  We still did not hear back in time 
and we are now past the deadline and as such will need to allow this transaction to stand. It 
said that the account would be re-debited and so the temporary credit reversed on 14 April 
2022. That led to a complaint being raised.
Im looking at what is fair and reasonable. S had provided everything Starling Bank asked for 
before the chargeback and had gone to some lengths to do so even getting expert evidence 
that the item wasnt genuine. I find it likely that S didnt see the messages until after the 
deadline. It has provided its explanation for that. And that it didnt understand the 
requirement and how that linked to MasterCard rules. Its clear to me that there were strong 
grounds for rebuttal and that on 31 March 2022 S wanted to rebut what the merchant had 
said. I dont accept that there fairly wasnt an opportunity then for this to be quickly rectified 
with Starling Banks help. Rather than S being told that the payment would be re-debited on 
14 April 2022 and so before the scheme deadline had expired. 
It is a matter for Starling Bank to set its processes, but I can fairly look at how these were 
applied in the circumstances of this case and taking into account as it wants me to the 
MasterCard guidelines. In coming to my decision, I note the period Starling Bank had both 
before it had contacted S and after its internal deadline. And as it has described the very 
limited basis for rebuttal with no further evidence to be reviewed or sent through. So as I 
indicated in my request for information to Starling Bank I think fairly that it as the expert here 
and understanding what S had said about not responding earlier should reasonably have been able to allow S to respond even after its internal deadline. Had that happened and the 
evidence been properly looked at by the card issuer then I think it more likely than not that 
the chargeback would have succeeded. So, I will be requiring a refund and compensation for 
S in the way our investigator has recommended as I think thats the fair resolution here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Starling Bank Limited to:
1) Refund S with the payment of £149.99 backdated to the date that the chargeback 
was denied, and the amount had been re-debited to the account.
2) Pay S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman