DRN-3908340
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges applied to a reviewable whole of life policy he holds with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr M has held the policy since 1990 and over the years he received statements showing the 
charges that had been applied.
In March 2021 Mr M received some different information from Aviva about how the policy 
was administered. This showed the way in which premiums were applied to the policy and 
how the money was used to buy units in the underlying fund and pay the cost of cover 
through a bid/offer process. 
Mr M complained to Aviva about his saying the way the bid/offer process worked meant he 
incurred a charge that hadnt been previously disclosed on the statements. Avia didnt 
uphold the complaint saying the bid/offer spread was explained in the terms and conditions 
of the policy. They also said the statements werent misleading as they are designed to give 
an update on premium escalation and not the details of units bought and sold, but that this 
information was available on request.
Remaining unhappy Mr M brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. They thought Aviva had acted reasonably in the information 
provided to Mr M and that the terms and conditions explained how the bid/offer process 
worked. 
Mr M disagreed saying any bid/offer spread dealing expense that was kept by Aviva should 
be considered part of the fund related charges. Because an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr M that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service. Aviva and our Investigator both 
provided an explanation of how the policy works so I wont repeat all the details again here. 
The Fund Management Expenses part of the policy terms and conditions say the company 
shall have entitlement To receive the difference between the value at the Offer Price of all 
Units in the Fund which are created at that price on that Valuation Date and the value at the 
Bid Price thereof.
Mr M says this should be shown in the fund related charges on the statements. Aviva say 
the statements are designed to give an update on premium escalation and arent designed 
to confirm all expense details. Because of this the statement doesnt show the details of 
units bought and sold and nor the bid/offer spread. I think Aviva have acted reasonably when 
saying this as there isnt a requirement to show the bid/offer spread, however I can 
understand why Mr M disagrees. 
I think the policy has been administered correctly and Ive not seen any evidence of errors 
being made.
After carefully considering everything Im satisfied Aviva has treated Mr M fairly and 
reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman