DRN-2331510
The complaint
Mr G complained to Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) that a car he was paying for 
under a conditional sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality from the outset. He also 
says that the credit was unaffordable for him and shouldnt have been agreed.
What happened
Moneybarn agreed credit of £7,414 for Mr G on 6 November 2019 via an intermediary in 
order for him to acquire a car. The total amount owed (including Mr Gs deposit of £580) 
came to £15,328 which was to be repaid over 59 monthly instalments of £2501.
The finance was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Mr G would own the 
car once it had been repaid. Moneybarn was the owner until that point and Mr G was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. Any complaints about the quality of the car as given to 
Mr G then fall to Moneybarn. 
Mr G voluntarily terminated the agreement on the 10 January 2020 and returned the car. 
Moneybarn says that Mr G is liable for half the amount owed under the terms of the 
agreement, in other words £7,665. 
Moneybarn has confirmed that the voluntary termination of the agreement was completed in 
early 2020, and Mr G was sent a final billing letter for the amount of £7,084 (half the total 
amount minus his deposit). Ive assumed that the car has been collected though I dont know 
if the debt has been sold to a third-party debt collector at this point.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended that it be upheld in 
part because they found that Moneybarn was irresponsible to have entered into a conditional 
sale agreement with him. They didnt uphold the aspect of his complaint relating to the 
quality of the car. 
Neither Moneybarn nor Mr G has responded to our investigators view so the case has been 
passed to me to review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
The facts of the case are well known to both parties and are not in dispute, so I wont go into 
what happened in any more detail but will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator: I dont 
1 All figures quoted are rounded to the nearest pound.
think that the car was of unsatisfactory quality but I do find that Moneybarn was irresponsible 
to have agreed credit for Mr G on this occasion. My reasons are as follows.
It is not in dispute that the interior of the car had some damage prior to Mr G taking 
possession of it. However, having considered what both parties have said about that and 
having looked at the photos provided by Mr G, I dont think the damage was out of proportion 
to the wear and tear that could reasonably be expected in a car of such age and mileage. 
I accept that the damage to the car wasnt mentioned in the advertisement for the car nor, it 
seems, was it pointed out to Mr G. However he did have the opportunity to take the car for a 
test drive albeit in the evening. Furthermore, it doesnt seem that Mr Gs use of the car was 
limited by the condition of its interior and I cant say that he was unable to make fair use of 
the car for the time it was in his possession.
It is also not in dispute that the car was advertised as having a tyre mobility kit. Mr G says 
this was missing. I can see that Moneybarn directed Mr G to speak to the selling dealership 
in the first instance. I dont know what has happened regarding this item but, as events have 
now moved on, I dont feel I need to comment further on this point.  
Ive concluded that Moneybarn was irresponsible to have entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Mr G. This is because I find that Moneybarns affordability assessment 
wasnt proportionate on this occasion, and that a reasonable and proportionate check would 
likely have shown that Mr G wouldnt be able to meet his repayments without experiencing a 
significant adverse impact on his financial situation. 
Moneybarn says it accepted what Mr G told the intermediary about his income and 
expenses. It says it compared these figures with statistical datasets and checked his credit 
file, though it hasnt provided the results of this or commented further. I dont think relying on 
statistical comparisons was appropriate in this case. Mr Gs income consisted solely of state 
benefits, including disability payments. He had several accounts in default and ongoing 
arrears, some of which Moneybarn would likely have seen on its credit file check. 
Furthermore, from the credit file information Mr G has provided it seems he had an existing 
unpaid debt with Moneybarn for over £3,000. Moneybarn hasnt commented on this but I 
cant say that agreeing further credit for Mr G under these circumstances was fair.  
Altogether, I dont think Moneybarn took reasonable steps to ensure Mr G would be able to 
meet his repayments without difficulty over the five year finance term. On reviewing the 
available information, I dont think further checks would have provided any reassurance to 
Moneybarn that Mr G would have been able to do so. Mr Gs bank statements support what 
he says about his monthly income consisting of benefits and amounting to about £700. He 
was making token payments to two debt management companies, which suggests to me 
that he wasnt managing to clear his existing debt. 
Agreeing this finance for Mr G increased and prolonged his indebtedness, left him with a 
debt of over £7,000 to have the use of a car for two months and the agreement has been 
recorded on his credit file. 
Putting things right
Putting Mr G back into the position he would have been in, had Moneybarn not agreed 
finance for him, means that he shouldnt be liable for the outstanding amount. If Moneybarn 
has sold the debt then it will need to work with the current owner to put things right as Ive 
set out below.I think its fair that Mr G pays something for the time he had the use of the car as there was 
likely to have been a cost to him in staying mobile without it. I understand that Mr G didnt 
make any payment for the car beyond his initial deposit of £580. In this case, I think its fair 
that Mr G pays the agreement amount of £250 a month for the use of the car for two months. 
In summary, Moneybarn should:
a) Recover the car from Mr G at no cost to him and end the agreement (Im including 
this for completeness as I think it has already carried out these actions); and
b) Cap the total amount Mr G needs to pay at £500; and
c) Refund any amounts hes paid (either to Moneybarn or a third-party) above this 
amount along with 8% simple interest* per annum; and
d) Remove all adverse information about this agreement from Mr Gs credit file once the 
agreement is settled. As Ive found Mr G shouldnt have been given this finance, it 
follows that he wouldnt have been in the position of voluntarily terminating the 
agreement and so Moneybarn shouldnt record this as such on his credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman