DRN-4221458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled their claim on
a caravan breakdown assistance insurance policy. 
What happened
In about 2010, a large European vehicle manufacturer made a van or motorhome. Since at
least 2017, Mr R had that vehicle.
Mr and Mrs R had the motorhome covered on a breakdown assistance policy. That
contained separate sections covering breakdowns in the United Kingdom and in Europe.
Acromas was responsible for dealing with any claim for a breakdown in Europe.
Unfortunately, in early June 2022, the motorhome broke down in continental Europe. Mr and
Mrs R called for help under the policy. They waited about a day for a recovery vehicle. When
it arrived it was too small. But it took the motorhome away, leaving Mr and Mrs R at the
roadside.
The recovery vehicle took the motorhome into storage for about three weeks. Mr and Mrs R
stayed in a tent for two weeks, a bungalow for two nights and then a villa.
On about 27 June 2022, a recovery vehicle took the motorhome to a garage franchised by
the vehicle manufacturer. The garage said it couldnt look at the motorhome until 4 July
2022. Later, the garage said that it would take a further three weeks to get parts for the
repair.
So Mr and Mrs R cancelled or postponed the ferry crossing they had booked for 10 July
2022. They flew back to the UK.
After the garage did some repairs, Mr and Mrs R flew out to collect the motorhome. They
paid the garage €3,767.48. But the motorhome wouldnt start. So they had to pay for a new
battery.
On reaching a campsite, Mr and Mrs R noted damage. That included damage to an electrical
socket, the step, the leisure battery, the cupboards and some paintwork. Also some tools 
were missing.
They caught a ferry back to the UK. Mr and Mrs R complained to Acromas about delay,
damage and costs.
They cancelled a ferry crossing and trip they had booked for October 2022.
By a final response dated 11 October 2022, Acromas said it wasnt responsible for the
actions of the recovery company or the garage. Acromas apologised for its poor
communication and said it was sending a cheque for £250.00.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us in mid-October 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
the recovery had caused distress and inconvenience. She recommended that Acromas
should: 
1. consider the costs Mr and Mrs R paid for emergency accommodation, taxis, hire 
cars, and the flights to collect the motorhome in line with the relevant terms, and 
make a payment for the eligible costs on receipt of the required receipts and in line 
with the policy limits; and
2. arrange repair of any damage that occurred whilst the motorhome was in storage 
pending repair, or make payment of this on receipt of the invoice if Mr and Mrs R 
have already had this fixed; and
3. make payment of an additional £100.00 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay experienced with their recovery.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs R and to Acromas on 21 June 2023. I summarise my findings:
Under the rules, I would deal only with the complaint that Mr and Mrs R made to 
Acromas before the final response.
Keeping in mind that the policy terms said that Acromas wasnt responsible for the 
recovery agent or the garage, I didnt hold Acromas responsible for any acts or 
omissions of the recovery agent or the garage.
Acromas caused Mr and Mrs R distress and inconvenience. Each of them had health 
issues and worries about what they could afford. So the impact on them was 
magnified. 
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs R or from Acromas, my provisional 
decision was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R (jointly and insofar as it hasnt already made such 
payment) £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the provisional decision in part. She says, in summary, that: 
Luckily, they had managed to pull the motorhome in a bit at the side of the road and it 
was on a dual carriageway. Acromas said a recovery vehicle would be with them 
within a couple of hours. But that turned out to be 24 hours from breakdown. 
She explained that everything they had was in the motorhome. The recovery driver 
said he was taking it. They had only a few desperate minutes to get two carrier bags 
with medication, clothes, phones, money etc. 
The driver said they would have to ring up to find out where the motorhome was later 
that day. He took it over 70 miles away. He left them at the roadside.
They didnt expect it to be about 8 weeks before it would be repaired.
There was nothing wrong with the batteries. But the garage let them run down and 
blew the electrics and leisure battery restarting it all the time. The battery wouldnt 
start the motorhome. The garage was jump starting it and said it should charge up on the road. She told them she couldnt rely on that as, once they stopped, they wouldnt 
be able to start it again. The garage said it needed a new battery. They had to buy a 
new battery at the garage.
Nothing was working because the garage had blown the leisure battery and 
damaged the electrical socket. They needed to rush to the ferry crossing, petrified 
the motorhome would break down again. 
A ratchet screwdriver set, a small drill and a roll of gaffer tape were missing from the 
motorhome.
They werent sure if they would be able to repair all the damaged items. They used 
all their savings paying out for everything and hadnt received a date to be 
reimbursed. So in September 2022, they didnt pay for their planned crossing in 
October 2022 and cancelled it.
They have not received any offer from Aromas other than the £250.00 which they 
were disgusted at. She tried many times to get in touch with Acromas and was 
passed from pilar to post. She didnt actually get to speak with them as she kept 
getting cut off.
She is a cancer survivor. She had to do her best to keep calm in extremely difficult 
circumstances. Acromas knew how stressed she was in the phone calls. 
Acromas disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It didnt fail to contribute to Mr and Mrs Rs expenses.
It is responsible for the poor communications.
Theres no justification for awarding £500.00 in total. The investigators 
recommendation of a further £100.00 would be reasonable redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms
The policy terms included the following:
Third party service providers, including garages, repairers, recovery operators, car
hire companies, etc. are not approved by the  Caravan Breakdown Assistance
cover and do not act as agents of the  Caravan Breakdown Assistance.
Caravan Breakdown Assistance cannot be held liable for any acts or omissions of
any such garages or other third parties. 
Vehicle recovery is not Relay and usually Vehicles are only recovered
unaccompanied.
The policy terms said that Acromas would pay for roadside assistance, towage and up to
£100.00 for garage labour. The policy terms said Acromas wouldnt pay for spare parts. So
the policy didnt cover the cost of garage repairs beyond £100.00 for labour.
The policy said that Acromas would pay for additional travel expenses up to £1,400.00 per
party per trip. Im satisfied that  in the context of this policy  party meant (together) the
driver and any other persons travelling in the vehicle.
The policy said that Acromas would pay for emergency accommodation up to £900.00 perparty per trip.
The policy said that Acromas would pay for one persons travel and accommodation costs to
go overseas to collect the vehicle. That was subject to a limit equivalent to the value of the
vehicle.
Scope of the complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. One of those rules means that - before we can investigate a complaint  the
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated business and waited for up to
eight weeks for a final response.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Acromas in August 2022. In early September 2022, they sent
Acromas a claim form for their outlay.
Ive seen an email dated late January 2023 in which Acromas said it was working on the
claim.
Mrs R told us in February 2023 that the claim was for about £1,000.00 and about €6,000.00
(including repair of the vehicle).
Acromas told us in May 2023 that it had made an offer of £2,429.78 but Mr and Mrs R hadnt
responded.
So, whilst we can anticipate that Mr and Mrs R may wish to complain to Acromas that it
hasnt offered enough in response to their monetary claim, they havent yet made such a
complaint to Acromas or brought it to us.
Under the rules, I will deal only with the complaint that Mr and Mrs R made to Acromas
before the final response.
Findings on the complaint
Notwithstanding that the policy said that vehicle recovery would be unaccompanied, I 
consider that Acromas shouldve done more to manage Mr and Mrs Rs expectations and to 
prepare them for the recovery.
There was delay in the recovery. After the recovery to storage, there was further delay in
finding a garage that could take the motorhome and do the repairs. After it was booked in,
there was delay in transporting the motorhome for the garage to assess. There was further
delay in starting work.
Keeping in mind that the policy terms said that Acromas wasnt responsible for the recovery
agent or the garage, I dont hold Acromas responsible for any of this delay.
The policy only covered roadside assistance, towage and up to £100.00 for garage labour.
So, keeping in mind that the policy terms said that Acromas wasnt responsible for the
recovery agent or the garage, I dont hold Acromas responsible for any acts or omissions of
the recovery agent or the garage. That includes any damage caused to the motorhome in
storage or at the garage.
In addition to failing to prepare Mr and Mrs R for the recovery, Ive noted that Acromas was
responsible for poor communication for many weeks. I find that the impact on Mr and Mrs R
included that they often felt forgotten or ignored. They felt that they had to chase forprogress or updates.
Acromas caused Mr and Mrs R distress and inconvenience. Each of them had health issues
and worries about what they could afford. So the impact on them was magnified.
Responses to the provisional decision
Ive said that I consider that Acromas shouldve done more to manage Mr and Mrs Rs 
expectations and to prepare them for the recovery.
Ive said that I dont hold Acromas responsible for any acts or omissions of the recovery 
agent or the garage. That includes any damage caused to the motorhome in storage or at 
the garage.
To be clear, that includes any damage to the electrical socket, the batteries, the step, 
cupboards and paintwork. It also includes any removal or loss of items from the motorhome.
It is a curious feature of this case that Mr and Mrs R deny Acromass statement that it has 
offered (but not yet paid) about £2,400.00 in settlement of the claim. However, I consider 
that I cant deal with that dispute for the reason set out under Scope of the complaint 
above.
From what Mrs R has said, the cancellation of the planned trip in October 2022 was due to 
the damage and due to the lack of reimbursement from Acromas. 
I havent held Acromas responsible for the damage, so I dont hold Acromas responsible for 
the cancellation insofar as it was caused by the damage. I cant deal with the dispute about 
settlement of the claim, so I cant deal with the complaint about the cancellation insofar as it 
was caused by lack of reimbursement from Acromas.
Ive said that Acromas was responsible for poor communication for many weeks. And Mr and 
Mrs R each had health issues and worries about what they could afford. So the impact on 
them was magnified. I find it likely that they were worried about each other. 
Putting things right
Acromas tried to put things right by sending a cheque for £250.00. Overall, I consider that 
wasnt enough compensation for such distress and inconvenience. 
I consider that  keeping in mind the duration and depth of the impact on Mr and Mrs R - a 
total of £500.00 between them is fair and reasonable in line with our published guidelines on 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R (jointly and insofar as it 
hasnt already made such payment) £500.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman