DRN-3559544
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc restricted its account stopping 
genuine payments.
What happened
T found that its account had been blocked. The director tried to contact Santander about that 
on 24 and 25 September 2021 but its phone lines were either closed or not answering. The 
director was then away and tried to phone again on 1 October 2021 but gave up after waiting 
for 90 minutes. He went into a branch on 2 October 2021 and the account was unblocked. 
He says that this affected important payments for staff which he made instead from his 
personal account.
Santander said that in order to protect customers from fraud it had automated systems in 
place. Payments were checked and if suspected to be fraudulent referred. It said that T had 
made a number of payments on 24 September 2021 which resulted in the account being 
referred and blocked. It recognised that T had confirmed these payments as genuine and the 
inconvenience caused. It offered to pay T £200 after it complained.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do more than this. He said our role wasnt to 
punish Santander. It like other financial businesses had to be watchful for payments that 
seemed unusual and exercise reasonable care. And we wouldnt tell Santander how to run 
its business. He thought that the compensation was reasonable, noting that the complainant 
here was a limited company that couldnt suffer distress. The offer reflected the 
inconvenience.
T didnt agree. The director said he couldnt get the issue resolved and had no idea how long 
this would take. He wasnt notified of the failed payments. And he had to pay staff and 
emphasised what would have happened if he hadnt been able to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that under the terms and conditions of the account Santander can restrict access 
to prevent suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use. Clearly a suspicion is only that, but 
it can take precautionary action to prevent loss. That means that as here sometimes an 
account is blocked when the payments in question are genuine ones. And while technically 
an error it is part of fraud prevention. And as our investigator has said the design and 
operation of such systems is generally a matter for Santander.
I would have expected it to be easier for T to deal with this having found out what happened. 
And in its terms and conditions Santander also says that following contact it will look to 
rectify things as soon as possible. I wont be mandating how long it should take for a call to 
be answered or the opening hours of its teams. And I also wont be considering what might 
have happened only what did here. T was able to arrange for staff to be paid to mitigate 
things. 
Santander has recognised that this has caused inconvenience and offered to pay T £200. 
Having taken all the circumstances into account including the period before this was 
resolved and our published guidelines about compensation I find that to be a reasonable 
offer to settle the complaint. And so, I wont be requiring Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
Santander has made an offer to settle the complaint which I think is fair. So, my decision is 
that Santander UK Plc should pay T £200 as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman