DRN-3098667
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help when she was 
the victim of an online investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2020 Miss S sadly fell victim to a scam. 
She was persuaded to invest with an online trading company Ill refer to as B. At the time 
she believed this to be a genuine investment opportunity. 
She made two payments that she believed were going to B. One for around £250 in August 
2020 and another for £2,000 in September 2020. When she had problems making 
withdrawals from her account with B, Miss S concluded shed been the victim of a scam. 
Shes highlighted a warning about B from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which was 
first published in July 2020 to support this. 
Miss S reported the scam to Nationwide and asked that they try to help her get her money 
back. The two payments hadnt necessarily gone directly to B. The smaller payment went to 
a merchant Ill refer to as K and the larger payment went to another merchant Ill refer to as 
B2. 
Nationwide raised chargebacks in relation to both payments. They also applied temporary 
credits to Miss S account whilst this took place. The chargeback against K wasnt defended 
by the merchant and so that refund became permanent. B2 defended the chargeback at the 
first stage. Nationwide took the chargeback to the next stage, but again the merchant 
defended it. Nationwide then declined to take the chargeback to the final stage of arbitration. 
They wrote to Miss S in January 2021 to inform her theyd be re-debiting the £2,000 
payment and they went on to do so shortly afterwards.
Miss S complained. She says she wasnt told the initial refund could be taken back. She also 
still thinks that Nationwide should reimburse her. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she thought Nationwides 
actions with regard to the chargeback were fair. And she didnt think there were any other 
reasons why they ought to provide a refund. 
Miss S disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Miss S, 
so Ill explain why. Im satisfied that, during a call in which Miss S reported matters to 
Nationwide, she was told the refunds might not be permanent. So I dont agree Nationwide 
misled her in that way. 
I dont think there is a reasonable basis to have expected Nationwide to have done more 
when the payments were made. It isnt unusual for people to make slightly larger payments 
from time to time. So whilst the £2,000 payment may have been for more than Miss S would 
typically spend on her account  I dont think this was so unusual that Id have expected 
Nationwide to have intervened prior to processing it. Ive considered the FCA warning about 
B. But as neither payment showed on the statements as going directly to B  I dont think 
this is something Nationwide could have picked up on at the time.
Ive next gone on to consider the chargeback process. Nationwide can only act within the 
scheme rules which in this case is Visa. The chargeback against K was successful, so I 
wont comment on that further. And they took the chargeback against B2 to all but the final 
arbitration stage. I think their decision to not take it further was reasonable.
It appears the B2 are a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. And it would appear they did 
what was asked of them in return for the payment. That being converting Miss S funds into 
cryptocurrency and passing it on to the wallet address requested. Therefore I dont think 
Nationwides conclusion that the claim would ultimately fail was unreasonable. 
Its only possible to raise a chargeback against the merchant that received the payment. So 
it wouldnt have been possible for Nationwide to raise a chargeback with B directly. I accept 
that Miss S was the victim of a cruel scam. But being the victim of a scam doesnt 
automatically entitle the cardholder to a refund under the chargeback scheme. Overall, I 
dont think Nationwide are responsible for Miss S outstanding loss. Nor do I think they 
hindered its recovery through the chargeback scheme. So there isnt a reasonable basis 
upon which I can tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman