DRN-1075924
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs Ns complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HL) is about the unsuccessful transfer of some of their shares. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs N owned shares in a company (company A) that was being taken over by a 
foreign company. The shares were held in the account that Mr C and Mrs N had with another 
provider. That provider told Mr C and Mrs N that their account wouldnt be able to support 
shares in the foreign company because they werent listed on the UK stock exchange. 
Mr C and Mrs N therefore decided to transfer their shares in company A to their HL account. 
They completed a transfer form, dated 16 December 2018, and sent it to HL. 
HL contacted Mr C and Mrs Ns existing provider on 19 December. But before the transfer 
could take place, the other provider sold the shares. They told HL the transfer request had 
been received after the deadline theyd set. 
Mr C and Mrs N complain that HL are responsible for their shares not being transferred in 
time. They have also made a complaint against the other provider, but in this decision Im 
only looking at the actions of HL.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think HL had done anything 
wrong. Mr C and Mrs N disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mrs N completed a form requesting the transfer of the shares on 16 December 
2018. They made clear that they didnt want their cash balance to be transferred to HL. 
But they didnt say there was a deadline for the transfer of the shares.
HL say they received the transfer form on 19 December and contacted the other provider on 
the same day for information on Mr C and Mrs Ns holdings. This was in line with their 
standard process when arranging a transfer. 
The other provider responded to HL on 20 December. They provided information that 
included both Mr C and Mrs Ns shares and their cash balance. 
HL submitted a transfer request to the other provider on 21 December covering just the 
shares. By this time, Mr C and Mrs N had contacted HL and told them the shares could be 
sold if the transfer request wasnt made in time. So HL called the other provider to see if the 
transfer could be processed. The other provider told HL that it wasnt possible for the shares to be transferred.
Following further exchanges, they said that because the transfer request hadnt been 
received by 20 December, Mr C and Mrs Ns shares had been included in a bulk sale that 
took place on 21 December. 
I appreciate that it must have been very frustrating for Mr C and Mrs N to be told that their 
shares had been sold. But having looked at what happened, I cant see that HL did anything 
wrong or acted unreasonably. 
HL didnt receive the transfer request until 19 December. They were unaware that this was 
just one day before the deadline that Mr C and Mrs Ns existing provider had set.
Despite that, HL contacted the other provider on the same day. And once theyd received a 
response, they submitted the transfer request one day later. 
I think HL handled the transfer request promptly. And once they knew there was a deadline, 
they called the other provider a number of times to try and resolve things. So I dont think I 
can fairly say that HL were responsible for the transfer not going through.
I realise this wont be the decision Mr C and Mrs N were hoping for, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Ns 
complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Matthew Young
Ombudsman