The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about First Central Insurance Management Limited (FCI) and the 
decision to cancel their car insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 April 2019, Mr H contacted FCI to purchase a car insurance policy after finding a quote 
online using a comparison website. Mr H was the named driver on the policy with Mrs H 
being the main driver.
On 29 April, FCI wrote to Mrs H requesting further documents as theyd noticed several 
online quotes had differing start dates for Mr Hs license. These were provided by Mrs H on 
14 May. On 21 May, after reviewing these documents, FCI issued a notice of cancellation as 
the incorrect date for Mr Hs license had been used. 
Mr H called FCI to discuss this the same day. Mr H explained it had been human error which 
had led to the incorrect date being provided. But, FCI didnt agree. They thought the 
incorrect information had been provided deliberately so they confirmed they were cancelling 
the policy. They explained this cancellation would be reported and would need to be 
disclosed to any other insurers moving forward. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this, so 
they raised a complaint.
They complained that FCI had cancelled the policy unfairly as details Mr and Mrs H provided 
werent included in the policy documents theyd received or confirmed on the initial sale call. 
So, they didnt think they were given a reasonable chance to notice the error. Because of 
this, they didnt think it was fair to classify the mistake as deliberate.
FCI didnt agree. They explained the details for the policy were taken from the information Mr 
and Mrs H had submitted online. So, the onus was on Mr and Mrs H to make sure they were 
correct. This information was available in the Statement of Fact (SOF) which was available 
to view on their online portal. So, they thought Mr and Mrs H had a fair chance to notice the 
error. And even then, they explained theyd seen several quotes were obtained over different 
comparison sites in the days leading to the inception policy where the incorrect license date 
had been used. So, they thought they were fair in deciding Mr and Mrs H had used the 
incorrect date deliberately. And because of this, they were fair to cancel the policy. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt agree, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought FCI had acted 
fairly when deciding from the quotes obtained that Mr and Mrs H had misled them 
deliberately. He explained Mr and Mrs H had used both the correct and incorrect date and in 
doing so, wouldve realised there was a significant different in the price. Because of this, he 
thought FCI had acted fairly when cancelling the policy. And they couldnt be held 
responsible for the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs H when seeking new insurance as 
DRN-2272354they had an obligation to report the cancellation. So, he didnt think they needed to do 
anything further.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They explained they didnt select the cheapest quote they 
received, so this showed they werent looking to profit financially. They maintained the 
mistake was purely down to human error and provided screenshots of one of the comparison 
websites to show how this error was possible. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact this has had on both Mr and Mrs H. I understand the 
cancellation of the policy meant they were unable to drive the car suddenly, which wouldve 
been problematic. And more crucially, Im aware as the cancellation is reported, its had a 
financial impact on them when trying to source alternative insurance moving forwards. And I 
appreciate the seriousness of this implication and its one Ive made sure Ive considered as 
Ive come to a decision. But, its not my role to say for certain whether I think Mr and Mrs H 
purposely provided the incorrect information when obtaining their insurance. I fully 
understand Mr and Mrs Hs position that it was human error. Instead, its my role to decide 
whether I think FCI looked at the evidence fairly and that the cancellation was reasonable 
and in line with the law. And in this situation, I think they have.
When buying an insurance policy, insurers will ask consumers a number of questions that 
allow them to weigh up the risk of providing that insurance. This is used to calculate 
premiums and decide whether cover will be offered at all. The onus is on the consumer to 
ensure the information provided is accurate. If an answer is inaccurate, or misleadingly 
incomplete, this can be classed as mis-representation. But an insurer is only entitled to take 
action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So, Ive first considered whether Mrs 
and Mr H using an incorrect license date qualifies.
In order to decide whether it qualifies, I need to decide whether I think Mr and Mrs H took 
reasonable care when providing the license information. Ive seen a spreadsheet provided 
by FCI which shows 43 different quotes Mr and Mrs H received from FCI through a number 
of comparison websites between 4  6 April 2019. Of these, 36 used the incorrect license 
date of March 2018, when Mr H received his license in March 2019. I understand there is 
only a years difference between the two dates, and Ive seen the screenshot of the drop-
down box from one of the comparison sites that Mr H used. So, I could understand why an 
error may have been made on a few occasions. But this showed that the majority of the 
quotes were obtained using the incorrect information. And I dont think this shows Mr and 
Mrs H taking reasonable care when providing information to FCI for them to calculate a 
policy premium.
But Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments about FCI failing to provide them with an 
opportunity to rectify their error. And I agree they werent asked to confirm the details on the 
sales call. However, I dont think FCI did anything wrong by not doing this as they were using 
the details Mr and Mrs H provided online on the comparison website moments before and I 
think it was fair for them to consider them to be true and accurate. After the policy had been confirmed, Ive seen FCI sent Mrs H a welcome email which explained her policy documents 
were available on her online portal. Included in this was the Statement of Fact (SOF). 
The SOF clearly showed the incorrect license date had been used so I wouldve expected 
Mr and Mrs H to notify them of this. But Mr and Mrs H explained they couldnt access the 
documents as they were unable to log in to the portal. They feel the SOF shouldve been 
sent to them alongside the insurance certificate and had it been, theyd have notified FCI of 
the change. But I dont agree.
I think the email made reasonably clear the majority of the policy documents were online. If 
Mr and Mrs H had difficulty accessing this, Id have expected them to contact FCI to rectify 
this. But I cant see that they did. I think their failure to view all the policy documents after its 
inception, and ensure they were correct, is another example of Mr and Mrs H failing to take 
reasonable care that all the information they provided was accurate. So, when considering 
all this together, Im satisfied this was a qualifying mis-representation and FCI were entitled 
to take action.
But, the limit of the action FCI could take is dependent on whether the mis-representation 
was careless or deliberate. FCI decided the mis-representation was deliberate so Ive 
considered whether I think this was fair.
Ive looked at the quotations Mr and Mrs H obtained between the 4th and 6th April. On 4th 
April, at around 10pm, Mr and Mrs H obtained a quote using the correct license date. This 
gave a premium price of £2,733.29. Then, between 10pm and 11pm the same evening, Mr 
and Mrs H obtained several quotes using the incorrect license date which gave a best 
premium price of £1,863.73. Crucially, within this same time period, Mr and Mrs H made a 
obtained another single quote using the correct license date which took the premium price 
back up to £2,905.25.
On 5th April, Mr and Mrs H obtained one quote using the incorrect license date, which gave a 
premium of £2,147.51. Then, on 6th April, Mr and Mrs H obtained two quotes using the 
correct license date just before 8am giving a premium price of £2,788.72. They then 
obtained another two quotes using the incorrect license date just 10 minutes later, giving a 
premium of £1,895.64. Mr and Mrs H then obtained a final quote at around 4pm on the same 
day, using the incorrect license date to secure the premium.
The quotation evidence above shows Mr and Mrs H swapping the license dates and when 
doing so, there were significant differences in the premium prices. I think the difference 
between the cheapest and the most expensive is significant enough for Mr and Mrs H to 
realise there was a discrepancy in the information they were providing as the quotations 
were being obtained. And this was pattern continued over a number of days, making it less 
likely that the same error was mistakenly being made.
Im also aware that at the time of obtaining the quotes, Mr H had received his licence just a 
month before. So, I think it would be reasonable to expect Mr H to know the specific date he 
received his license, even more so the year it was received. 
When considering both of the above, I can understand why FCI would believe this to show 
the mis-representation was deliberate. Although I understand Mr and Mrs Hs point that they 
didnt choose the very lowest premium quote which they feel shows they didnt mis-represent 
the information for financial gain, I dont think this is enough to show FCIs decision was 
unfair. The pattern of the searches and the time they were made suggest that Mr and Mrs H 
were analysing the costs of the premiums with the differing information. And in the end, they 
chose the premium based on the incorrect license date. Because of this, I cant say that FCI 
acted unfairly when deciding the mis-representation was deliberate.So, as I think FCI acted fairly, they are entitled to take the action set out on CIDRA for these 
circumstances. And CIDRA states an insurer is entitled to cancel the policy if they can show 
the mis-representation impacted the cost of the cover, or whether the cover would be offered 
at all. Ive seen evidence that shows the premiums were lowered by the incorrect license 
date being used, so I think FCI were entitled to cancel the policy and acted fairly when doing 
so.
And as they cancelled the policy, they have an obligation to report this to insurance 
databases so other insurers can consider this as part of their own risk analysis. And Mr and 
Mrs H are also obliged to disclose this to other insurers as it affects the potential risk. I 
understand this has had severe financial implications for Mr and Mrs H and I can appreciate 
the inconvenience its caused. But as I think FCI acted fairly when determining the mis-
representation to be deliberate, and so acted reasonably when cancelling the policy, I dont 
think they should be held responsible for the impact Mr and Mrs H now experience. Because 
of this, I dont think FCI need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint about First Central 
Insurance Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman