DRN-2320759
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked a transfer to a third party. He would like an 
explanation why this happened.
What happened
Mr W had two accounts with HSBC a current account and a savings account.
On 14 September 2019. Mr W tried to send money (£3,081.26) from his current account to a 
third-party account at a different bank via his mobile banking App.
The payment was held for a security check. HSBC contacted him but Mr W wouldnt speak 
to them because he was concerned about security. He decided he would contact them 
instead. Later that afternoon Mr W contacted HSBC and it was identified the incorrect bank 
details had been input on the mobile App for the bank transfer. With Mr Ws agreement the 
payment was cancelled and reversed.
Mr W called HSBC an hour later, and he was told by a HSBC representative who I will refer 
to as B, that the payment had gone ahead. But this wasnt the case and the payment hadnt 
gone through. 
Mr W then set up a new payment to the third-party beneficiary and processed it on 
18 September 2019.
Mr W complained to HSBC. He said he had been told the payment was cancelled and then 
that it had gone through. But because it hadnt arrived at the third partys account, he was 
concerned that his money was lost.  HSBC looked into the complaint and said they were 
entitled to block payments if they suspected a potential fraudulent payment. They apologised 
that Mr W had been told the payment had been released when it hadnt. And they were sorry 
he had been given incorrect information by B.
Mr W was unhappy with their response, so he complained to our service. He said HSBC 
hadnt explained why even though he had given the HSBC fraud team the correct details 
their employee was viewing incorrect details and continued to block the transfer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said looking at the evidence and 
having listened to the calls he thought the details provided by Mr W for the third partys 
account were different to those held by the bank. He didnt think the bank had acted unfairly 
in stopping an incorrect payment from being made. he accepted that HSBC had given Mr W 
incorrect information when he called on the day of the blocked transfer and they had 
apologised for this. Which he felt was fair.
Mr W was unhappy with the view. He said HSBC had caused him to worry about the money 
not being transferred and then added to the confusion by agreeing that the money had been 
transferred. He had problems with his payees on internet banking that HSBC never 
explained. HSBC hadnt explained how the incorrect information had been set up as a 
payment. Mr W said he had lost confidence in HSBC.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
HSBC have a responsibility to safeguard customers accounts, detect and prevent fraud. In 
this case HSBC have explained they identified that the account details Mr W had provided 
didnt match the third party, and for this reason they contacted Mr W to confirm hed 
authorised the payment. On contacting Mr W, he confirmed that the payee details werent 
correct, and the payment was cancelled.
In view of the information provided Im satisfied HSBC were trying to comply with their duty 
to safeguard customers accounts when they reviewed and blocked Mr Ws payment.
Mr W has suggested that HSBC got the details of the transfer wrong. He has also said he 
isnt clear how the mistake happened. I have listened to the calls and I am satisfied that the 
bank had different details to those Mr W had. Mr W was also convinced of this and therefore 
he agreed to cancel the transfer. 
But I disagree that it was the bank that got the details wrong. Looking at the evidence I can 
see that the payment request was input via the mobile banking app and therefore Mr W was 
the one who input the payment details. It isnt clear whether the beneficiary was a new or 
existing beneficiary but as it was made via the mobile app it follows that it was Mr W who 
must have entered the payment details. As these details were incorrect, I believe its most 
likely Mr W made an error when he input those details. HSBCs actions in querying the 
payment prevented Mr W from having his money paid into a wrong account. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
HSBC have accepted that they provided Mr W with conflicting information and have 
apologised to him. Mr W has said he was concerned about where his money was, because 
of the conflicting information. I appreciate Mr Ws frustration and his concern regarding 
where the money had gone especially once the HSBC representative said the payment 
wasnt showing as cancelled. However, she did reassure him that the money wouldnt have 
been lost but was probably being held in a suspense account. 
I understand from Mr W that although he wasnt able to speak to the relevant team until two 
days after the first attempted transaction, he was aware the money had been recredited to 
his account, as agreed, the next morning. I understand Mr W was likely worried the money 
might be lost, however because he discovered it had been refunded soon after Im satisfied 
the apology from HSBC is fair. 
Mr W has also said that he wants an explanation about why the internet banking wasnt 
working properly. He says this because one of his beneficiary details disappeared. I 
understand Mr W believes there is an issue with the internet banking, but HSBC have 
advised this isnt the case and Ive not seen anything to support Mr Ws view. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. In summary, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think on balance Mr W accidentally entered the wrong payee details. I cant say 
HSBC has acted unreasonably and treated Mr W unfairly when it blocked the payment and contacted him to clarify the details of the payment. So, I am not going to ask them to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman