DRN-3517250
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) has 
asked him to repay funds previously paid under an income protection claim.
What happened
Mr L made a successful claim under his income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly 
after an accident at work. Mr L then took his employer to court, and was awarded 
compensation. 
Shepherds Friendly wanted Mr L to repay it £15,388.32. Unhappy with this, Mr L brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the terms of the 
policy allowed Shepherds Friendly to recover any payment made from the compensation 
awarded by the court. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
If you are making a claim because of an accident, we have the right to recover any 
payments from any compensation you receive
Shepherds Friendly provided Mr Ls solicitor with details of benefit paid to him (as well as 
confirmation of his contractual obligation to repay Shepherds Friendly from any 
compensation received). This was so that the information could be provided to the court as 
evidence of Mr Ls loss. 
Mr Ls solicitor confirmed that only two years of injuries formed part of the compensation 
claim through the court. The solicitor calculated that the benefit payments made by 
Shepherds Friendly over that two-year period amounted to £15,388.32, which Shepherds 
Friendly accepted. This is the amount that Shepherds Friendly has asked Mr L to repay. It 
hasnt asked him to repay any benefit payments made to him outside that two-year period. 
This service would not make a finding that a consumer should repay funds. However, Im 
satisfied that Shepherds Friendly was entitled, under the terms of the policy, to exercise its 
right to reclaim the funds it had paid. I therefore dont find that Shepherds Friendly acted 
inappropriately in making this request.
Since referring his complaint to this service, Mr L says that Shepherds Friendly has stopped 
paying his claim. This didnt form part of his initial complaint to Shepherds Friendly, and so if 
Mr L wishes to complain about this, he should contact Shepherds Friendly in the first 
instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman