DRN-2272229
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how Black Horse Limited (BHL) dealt with her request to voluntary 
terminate her hire purchase agreement. Miss A is represented in this complaint by Mr A, so 
Ill also be referring to him in this decision.
What happened
In January 2016 Miss A entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car.
She said that in January 2019 she served a notice under section 99 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) informing BHL that she wanted to end the agreement. She said she also 
told them that:
(1) on the  date of the Notice, I had met the  relevant criteria under s.100(1) of the  
CCA 1974;
(2) my liability is limited to one half of the total price payable;
(3)  any  additional  costs, expenses,  compensation  or  otherwise  relating to  any  
breach  of  the agreement  are irrecoverable.
(4) the  agreement  is ended with immediate effect.
She said the notice also stated that the car was available for BHL to collect and that they 
should make the necessary arrangements at their own cost.
She said BHL tried to get her to sign a form agreeing to accept liability for charges, including 
collection charges, and confirming the vehicle had a valid MOT. She said she refused to sign 
the form as she understood her liabilities ended when she served the notice.
She said it wasnt until June 2019 that BHL said they accepted the notice had been properly 
served by her, and they would collect the car at no cost to her, and with no further liability.
She said she wasnt available on the days BHLs agent wanted to collect the car, and she 
said BHLs agent wasnt available on the days shed suggested. She said her availability was 
limited as she had a baby in June 2019. She said she could be available but needed 
sufficient notice from the agent.
She said she went abroad for a month in September 2019, and that she told the agent she 
wasnt available. She said that BHL then wrote to her in October 2019, when she returned to 
the UK, telling her that she needed to make all the payments due from January 2019 to 
October 2019. She said she eventually got them to accept that shed terminated in January 
2019, but she said they insisted in payments for the period July 2019 to September 2019.
She said shed been attempting to arrange for the car to be collected at a time convenient to 
her. She wanted BHL to accept the agreement ended in January 2019, and this would be 
correctly shown on her credit file. She also wanted them to arrange for the car to be 
collected with no liability to her, as she said theyd agreed in June 2019.
BHL said they were not responsible for any delays in collecting the car from Miss A. They 
said Miss A had originally asked how to voluntary terminate in October 2018. They said they 
sent her an information pack explaining how to do this. They said in November 2018 Mr A 
called to say Miss A wanted to keep the vehicle.
They said Miss A called them in January 2019: they said she told them she now wished to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and had returned the forms. They said theyd cancelled 
the previous request to terminate so they issued a new information pack for her to complete.
They said Mr A called them in February 2019. They said he told them Miss A wouldnt be 
completing any paperwork and would be taking the car direct to the auction house (BHLs 
collection agent). Then in March 2019 he told them the car had been in an accident and hed 
arranged for it to be repaired before returning it to the agent.
BHL said Miss A contacted them in June 2019 to ask why the car hadnt been collected. 
They said at this point they agreed to arrange for the car to be collected, with no liability on 
Miss A. They said their agent attempted to contact Miss A over three days without success. 
BHL said they tried to contact Miss A, making contact in October 2019. They then arranged 
for the agent to contact Miss A. They said the agent told them that the customer cancelled 
the collection and had told them she was keeping the car.
They explained Miss A was liable for the payments from July 2019 to December 2019 as she 
refused to return the car.
They said The liability balance is the amount overdue on the account prior to the customer 
agreeing to Voluntary Terminate the agreement. In order to terminate with no liability the 
customer needs to have repaid half the total amount repayable plus any arrears/payments 
that fall due until the vehicle is collected.
They said Miss A was in arrears by £3,221.68 but they agreed to reduce this to £1,464 within 
their final response in order to assist the customer.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said she couldnt be certain of the 
exact reason the car was not returned once an agreement had been reached to end the 
contract. But she thought it was within Miss As interest to facilitate this and communicate 
with the parties involved to make sure it went smoothly.
She said the mileage information obtained indicated the car was being used after January 
2019 and she thought it was fair that Miss A pay for that usage. She thought that by reducing 
the liability BHL had acted fairly considering the time and usage of the car.
Miss A disagreed so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In determining a complaint, Im required to consider all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. In doing 
so, I take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.The issue I need to consider here is the application of the rules around the voluntary 
termination of a Consumer Credit agreement.
Section 99 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase or 
conditional sale agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire-
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement
provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the 
creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence
of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for
the payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
The Hire Purchase agreement sets our Miss As contractual obligations. The agreement 
includes the following clauses:
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you 
make your payments  to. They will then be  entitled  to  the return  of  the  goods  and 
to half the  total amount  payable  under this  agreement,  that  is  £13,524.18.  If  you  
have already  paid  at  least  this  amount  plus  any  overdue  instalments   and  
have  taken reasonable care of the goods,  you will not have to pay any more.
7.2   You must  return  the Goods to a reasonably  convenient place that we shall 
notify to you
9. YOUR RIGHT TO END THIS  AGREEMENT
You  may  end  this  Agreement  by  giving  us  written  notice.  If  you  do  so,  you  
must immediately  return the Goods to us in accordance  with clause 7 and will have 
to make the payments set out in clause 11.11.   WHAT YOU MUST PAY WHEN THIS AGREEMENT  ENDS
11.1 If  you   or  we  end  this  Agreement  under  clauses   9  or  10  you  must   pay  
us  all Repayments  shown  on page 1 which  are at that time overdue plus any sums  
due to us under clauses 3, 4, 6.3, 7 and 8; and the Total Amount Payable for the 
Insurances (if any) less the Repayments  for the Insurances  (if any) paid or due up 
to that time and less any applicable rebate; and
11.2 If you end this Agreement under clause 9 or if this Agreement is brought to an 
end as set  out in clause  10.3  you must  pay us the amounts  set  out in clause  11.1 
plus,  by way  of  compensation  or agreed  damages.  an  amount  equal to one half  
of the Total Amount Payable for the Goods less the Repayments  for the Goods paid 
or due up lo that time.
My Findings
Im satisfied that Miss A did enough to serve notice to BHL that she wished to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. The letter she sent to BHL dated 9 January 2019 refers to section 
99 of the CCA and clearly sets out her intention. She also states her rights under section 100 
of the Act  that her liability is limited to half of the total amount payable under the 
agreement, and excludes any sum payable as a penalty for breaches of the agreement. I 
understand BHL may have wanted to clarify Miss As liabilities on termination, particularly 
around any costs for excessive damages that Miss A may have been liable for, but I cant 
see why it needed her to fill in another form.
Like our investigator, I cant see any reason for the six month delay before BHL agreed 
Miss A wouldnt be liable for any further costs. I can see Mr A said hed arrange to return it, 
but this never happened. But I dont need to consider this as BHL accepted that Miss A is 
not liable for payments up to June 2019, even though she was still in possession of the car.
In June 2019 BHL accepted Miss A had properly served notice to voluntary terminate and 
agreed to collect the car with no liability to Miss A.
I would agree that, subject to the vehicle being in a reasonable condition, its likely Miss A 
would have no further liability as shed paid the necessary amount set out in the agreement. 
But in this case, Miss A held onto the car. Mr A told us he didnt allow BHLs agent to take 
the car. He said this was because his complaint had not been resolved. 
I need to consider whether or not BHL has done anything wrong, and I cant fairly say that 
they have. They agreed no further liability and to pay for the collection. Section 9 of the 
agreement requires the vehicle to be returned immediately for a voluntary termination to be 
effective. As Mr A, on behalf of Miss A, refused to return the vehicle, I dont consider hes 
taken the necessary steps required to make the Voluntary Termination  happen.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to invoke your statutory right to voluntary terminate a hire 
purchase agreement, then refuse to return the car that was the subject of the agreement.
So I think its reasonable for BHL to charge the equivalent of five monthly repayments whilst 
Miss A still had the car in her possession. I note our investigator has said why she believed 
that Miss A had used the car. But I dont think it matters if she drove the car or not. She 
retained possession of the car, and I think she should pay for the time she had the car.
Mr A says BHL didnt put a time period on the need to return the vehicle. But in the 
agreement, and in their exchanges, they made clear to Mr A the car needed to be returned. And Mr A told BHL on several occasions he would take the car to their agent  but he never 
did so.
I accept BHLs notes that they, and/or their agent attempted to call Miss A on a number of 
occasions between July 2019 and August 2019 to arrange collection  but the calls were 
never returned by Miss A.
In October 2019 Mr A told BHLs agent he was only available before 8am or after 5pm, and 
that it wasnt possible for the car to be collected from his place of work. I dont think this was 
reasonable. He was aware the car needed to be returned but I dont think he made 
reasonable attempts to fulfil his obligations (to return the car on behalf of Miss A).
And to compound matters he then refused to allow BHL or their agent to collect the car. He 
said wouldnt return the car until he received a response to his complaint about why BHL 
was holding Miss A liable for payments. Whatever his motives, I find this unreasonable.
Mr A asked me to consider two court judgements. The first relates to the amount the 
consumer had paid when a car was repossessed by the respondent. The second relates to 
charges for excess mileage. Neither of those issues is relevant to this complaint. Ive 
considered whether or not it was reasonable for BHL to charge Miss A monthly payments 
due under the agreement whilst she was in possession of the car. Mr A argued that the 
agreement ended when the notice of voluntary termination was issued to BHL in January 
2019. 
I may have been inclined to agree if hed made efforts to return the car that was the subject 
of the agreement. He knew the vehicle needed to be returned but I cant see he made 
reasonable efforts to do so, despite telling BHL on several occasions he would return the car 
to the agent.
So I dont think its fair that Miss A can retain the possession of the car, and claim no liability 
for payments just because she served the required notice to voluntary terminate. She had 
the car from January 2019, when she legitimately notified BHL she wanted to terminate the 
agreement, until February 2020, when the car was collected.
As Ive previously said, if Mr A had returned the car I may have been more likely to uphold 
Miss As complaint. But as the car remained in her possession, I find it reasonable for BHL to 
hold Miss A liable for the monthly payments due under the agreement, as the failure to 
return the agreement frustrated the voluntary termination process  and I dont consider this 
process was completed  having the effect that in my opinion its unfair to consider the 
agreement as terminated.
BHL agreed that Miss A had no liability to June 2019. They reduced her liability to £1,464 
(the equivalent of five monthly payments), and said they were willing to arrange for any 
adverse information to be removed from Miss As credit file without admission of liability and 
in settlement of the complaint.
I think this is a fair way to resolve the issue so I wont be asking BHL to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman