DRN-3357935
The complaint
Mr G held an account with Secure Trust Bank Plc. He complains that he was not notified of 
an interest rate drop and this has caused him a financial loss.  
What happened
Mr G held a 60 Day Notice account with Secure Trust which held £95,000. He received 
interest every 3 months. 
In September 2021 Mr G had not received the interest payment, and he logged into his 
account to check it. He noticed that the interest rate had dropped from 0.9% to 0.6%. Mr G 
told us that he hadnt been notified of this change and so he rang Secure Trust to complain. 
He says it took them 17 minutes to answer the phone, and they then advised him that the 
rate had dropped at the beginning of June. He was also advised that as it was a 60 Day 
notice account, he would have to give 60 days notice to withdraw the funds. Mr G raised a 
formal complaint. 
On 8 September 2021 Mr G received a final response from Secure Trust which said that the 
rate had dropped on 4 June 2021 and that two e mail notifications had been sent out to him 
on 17 March 2021 and 21 May 2021 and so they were satisfied that he had been given 
sufficient notice.  
  
Mr G was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought that Secure Trust hadnt done anything 
wrong.      
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
The account held by Mr G is a 60 Day Notice account, which has a variable rate of interest. 
In the terms and condition of the account at section 13.4.2.3 it says:
If we are reducing your interest rate set out in the Rate Card (please note that we 
will not reduce an interest rate where we have told you that it is a fixed rate), the 
following rules apply:
if the notice period for withdrawals is 30 days or more, we will give you 14 days in
addition to the normal notice period for withdrawals. After that time, the change will 
take effect. If you wish to close your Account or switch your Account the normal 
notice period for withdrawals will apply to your Account, as will any withdrawal 
charges that apply."
So, Secure Trust were required to give Mr G 74 days notice of the change to the interest 
rate. 
Secure Trust Bank have provided us with copies of the e mails and the account notes which 
show that they sent e-mails to Mr G advising him of the rate change on 17 March 2021, and 
again on 21 May 2021, and the interest rate was changed on 4 June 2021. These e mails 
are shown as successfully sent, with no rejection e mails being received and so I am 
satisfied that they were sent to Mr G. The first was sent 79 days before the rate change and 
so I am also satisfied that sufficient notice was given. 
Mr G says that he didnt receive the e mail, and that he is vigilant about correspondence to 
do with his income as he uses his savings interest to supplement his pension and acts on 
any information immediately. He says they may have been received in his junk e mails, but 
that his e mail provider empties that folder every month. Whilst I can appreciate that this is 
frustrating for Mr G, I cant fairly say that Secure Trust are responsible for the e mail not 
being received or opened. 
Mr G was also unhappy that once he found out about the interest rate change he still had to 
give 5 days notice to make his withdrawal, which would mean that by the time he had 
access to his funds he had lost 5 months of a higher rate of interest. He asked Secure Trust 
to allow him earlier access to his funds but they refused. I have thought about this, but as I 
am satisfied that Secure Trust havent done anything wrong in terms of notifying Mr G about 
the rate change, they are entitled to require the 60-day notice period to be served. 
Finally, Mr G has complained that it was difficult to complete the security checks on the 
phone with Secure Trust as his address was not being accepted and there were 
complications resetting his password. Financial institutions are required to ensure they have 
robust security processes in place to combat fraud. While I understand that these can often 
be frustrating and make telephone calls and processes quite long, they are there in order to 
protect consumers and businesses, and I cant say they have done anything wrong in 
implementing them here.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Secure Trust Bank plc.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman