DRN-2656931
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim against
his motor insurance policy and is unhappy about an increase in premium now being
charged. 
What happened
Mr Hs motor insurance policy with Admiral provided cover for multiple vehicles and
additional drivers - the policy renewal date was June each year. In early 2018 Mr Hs son,
one of the named drivers, was involved in an accident where he collided with another car.
Mr H said this was a minor incident and both parties agreed at the scene that no claim would
be made. However, approximately five months later, and after the policy renewed, Admiral
received a claim from the third partys insurer for the damage caused in the accident. Mr H
confirmed the incident had taken place but disputed the amount of damage being claimed 
at this point Admiral started to defend the claim.
Admiral also requested an additional £600 premium as the claim hadnt been reported in the
previous year as it should have. Admiral said if it had known about the claim then the
renewal premium would have been higher, so asked Mr H to pay this amount. The claim
then closed in May 2019 when the third partys insurer confirmed it wouldnt be pursuing a
claim for the damage. When the claim was closed, Admiral recalculated the premium and
reduced the sum to just over £300.
Mr H made a complaint to Admiral as he was unhappy with the length of time it had taken to
close the claim. And he felt the extra premium amount was too high.
Admiral said there isnt a set time for a claim to be completed as it depends on the
investigation. But because of the higher amount of the claim and the circumstances, Admiral
said it did take some time to investigate and receive the information from the other insurer.
And in relation to the additional premium, Admiral explained that it calculates premiums
based on all types of claims and this is based on the evidence obtained from its statistics. It
said the initial premium increase was correct but when the claim was closed as notification
only, it reinstated the no claims bonus on the policy which reduced the amount owed.
Admiral said it offered to defer the payment until the claim was resolved or until the renewal
of the policy  it said this money needed to be paid before it could offer the next renewal.
Mr H didnt renew his policy with Admiral, however, Admiral says he still has to pay the
outstanding premium as he had the benefit of the cover for the whole of the 2018-2019
period of insurance.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service about the poor
handling of the claim. And he said Admiral had told him in a phone call that the additional
premium would be waived.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt find that Admiral had handled the claim
poorly. And in relation to the premium, she found that the way Admiral had calculated the
price of the policy was in line with how it rated other customers policies in similar
circumstance. Because of this she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. She also
listened to call recordings provided of several conversations Admiral had with Mr H and that
none of these show Admiral agreed to waive this additional premium. So, she didnt think
Admiral needed to do anything further. 
In February 2021 I issued my provisional decision in which I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H. Rather it reflects the informal nature of
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Ive set out my findings under the following headings: claims handling delays and additional
premium.
Claims handling delays
The claim was first notified to Admiral in July 2018 by the third partys insurers and didnt
close until May 2019. Mr H feels it took too long to deal with this, and that Admiral didnt
proactively pursue the third party. Insurance claim handling rules say that claims need to be
handled promptly. So, I need to consider what has happened in this case and if Admiral has
acted fairly.
Ive looked at the case notes for the claim and I can see emails were sent to the third-party
insurer in August 2018 saying the damage claimed was disputed as not being related to the
accident that had occurred. The third party came back in December and the information was
resent, continuing to defend the claim for the damages. In March 2019 Admiral chased for a
response and was told that it hadnt received the report, so this was sent again. It wasnt
until a further chase in May 2019 that the other insurer confirmed the claim wouldnt be
pursued and so it could be closed.
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration over the time it took to bring this matter to a resolution,
but I dont think the delays on this case can be attributed to poor handling by Admiral. Any
claim involving a third party is always likely to take longer than one with no other interested
parties. And it was the third-party insurer who was pursing the claim for damages - Mr H was
not making a claim himself. Whilst Mr H doesnt think that Admiral was proactive, it did chase
the position on the claim in both March and May, so I think this shows an active involvement
in wanting to resolve the matter.
additional premium
When taking out insurance Mr H had a duty under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure &
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when providing information to the insurer.
Admiral has provided copies of the renewal documents issued to Mr H in 2018. On these
documents it asks Mr H to notify it immediately if the answer to the following question has
changed;
Have you or any driver had any accidents, incidents, thefts or losses, or made any claims
(fault or non-fault) during the past 3 years other than those listed?And Admiral has also provided a recording of a call with Mr H to discuss the renewal during
which he was asked the same question about additional accidents or incidents  Mr H
confirms there are no changes.
If a consumer fails to give correct information, the insurer can take a number of different
actions as long as it can show that it was a qualifying misrepresentation  as described by
CIDRA. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer needs to show this
information would have made a difference to the insurance offered  either the insurer
would have refused to provide cover or would have offered cover but on different terms
(such as charging additional premiums). Admiral has provided evidence to show that, had
it been made aware of the new incident at the time of renewing the policy, it would have
increased the premium charged. Im therefore satisfied this is a qualifying
misrepresentation.
The options available to an insurer if there is a qualifying misrepresentation depends on if
this was considered to be deliberate, reckless or careless.
Mr H has said he didnt tell Admiral about the incident as this was a minor event and the third
party had stated he didnt intend on claiming. He said he didnt realise he needed to report
all accidents. Ive thought about this carefully and whilst I can understand Mr Hs comments,
the policy is clear on what needs to be declared and Im persuaded that Mr H didnt take
reasonable care when renewing his car insurance. From what Mr H has said and how
Admiral has dealt with this, Im satisfied this was a careless mistake. So, I think Mr Hs
actions are more accurately considered as a careless misrepresentation.
In this scenario CIDRA sets out what remedies are available to Admiral. If an insurer shows
that it still would have entered into the contract, but would have charged a higher premium,
the Act says the insurer can settle any claims (on that policy) proportionately based on the
amount of premium it did receive. It is fair and reasonable for an insurer to ask for payment
of the additional cost but as the Act doesnt allow for the charge of the additional premium,
the policy holder cant be forced to pay it.
What Admiral should have done when it became aware of the claim is explain to Mr H it
would have charged him more premium, if he had told it about this incident at the renewal of
the policy. And therefore, it would deal with any claim on a proportionate basis - unless Mr H
was willing to pay the additional premium. But as mentioned before, it couldnt force Mr H to
pay it. However, as Admiral has asked Mr H for the additional premium its for him to decide
if he is willing to pay this sum or accept the risk that any claims made on the policy would be
met on a proportionate basis and therefore, he might be liable for any shortfall.
Admiral has not acted within the rules set by CIDRA and so it is not fair and reasonable for it
to chase Mr H for the additional premium if he refuses to pay. If Mr H wishes to now pay the
outstanding premium, to avoid any other claims that may have been made on that policy
being paid on a proportionate basis, he should contact Admiral to make the payment.
Mr H has told us that Admiral employed debt collectors to obtain the additional premium. As
charging an additional premium isnt a remedy under the Act Admiral needs to stop this
action. Should Admiral have placed any markers on his credit file as a result of this unpaid
sum it also needs to remove these.
Since late 2018, Mr H has been under the impression that he would have to pay this
additional sum. And Admiral also refused to renew his policy on the basis that this hadnt
been paid  even though this is not a requirement. Mr H has made numerous calls to
Admiral to try to resolve this matter which will have caused him inconvenience and being told
this debt was being put to collections would also have been distressing for him. Admiralshould pay Mr H the sum of £200 to compensate him for unnecessary distress and
inconvenience its caused by chasing him for the additional premium.
Both parties responded to say they accepted the findings of the provisional decision. 
However, Mr H also made some additional comments about the complaint. He said as the 
claim was being challenged, he felt it was inappropriate for changes to the premium to be 
applied before any investigation into the claim had taken place. And that he didnt think 
Admiral had been proactive when handling the claim. In relation to the renewal he wasnt 
made aware that Admiral wouldnt be offering a renewal until about a week before it was due 
 he said they had previously said they would suspend the increase until the claim was 
resolved. He thinks they could still have offered a renewal without his sons policy. And Mr H 
didnt think it was right for Admiral to have passed the debt to a collection agency whilst this 
matter was being reviewed by our service. He also reiterated that Admiral had told him in a 
phone call that the premium increase would be cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
outcome. However, I will briefly respond to the points made by Mr H.
Ive noted Mr Hs comments in relation to the slow handling of the claim. But as explained 
previously, there was no claim being made by Mr H  so he had no financial loss in this 
regard himself. The claim made was purely for the third partys costs. And Admiral did 
defend the claim. So, whilst I appreciate Mr H would have liked things to move more quickly 
than they did, I dont think this is as a result of any poor handling by Admiral.
Mr H didnt dispute that an incident had occurred, but the challenge made related to the 
amount of damage claimed by the third party. Its a requirement of the policy for Mr H to 
notify Admiral of any incidents or accidents at renewal. If he had done so this would have led 
to an increase in the premium at that point, rather than this becoming an issue when the 
claim was made. But as I detailed in the provisional decision, Admiral should not have 
insisted Mr H pay the additional premium - it should have followed the rules set out by 
CIDRA. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comments about his concerns regarding the renewal, the debt collection 
situation and also the phone conversations he had with Admiral. I would point out that Mr H 
had taken out a multi car insurance, so the premium is charged as a whole  there wouldnt 
be a separate policy for his son. But in terms of how he has been treated, I do agree that this 
whole matter has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience and it is for this reason that 
Admiral should pay £200 as compensation.
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance Company needs to stop any collection action for the additional premium
and ensure that it removes any markers it may have placed on Mr Hs credit file.
I also require Admiral Insurance Company to pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for the
distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decisionFor the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman