DRN-4379975
The complaint
Mr S says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance,
who Ill call BPF, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold.
Mr S has been represented by a professional representative, who Ill call PR and hes
submitted his claim on behalf of himself and his wife, but as Mr S is named on the credit
agreement, and for convenience, I will refer only to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect
to Mr Ss wife or his representative when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr S purchased a timeshare on 31 May 2009. He financed the deal through a fixed sum loan
with BPF.
On 6 November 2020 Mr S made a claim to BPF. He said that the supplier, who Ill call C,
were not permitted or authorised to arrange loans as prohibited by section 19 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and that section 26 of the FSMA allowed
for the recovery of money paid under an agreement entered into in prohibited circumstances.
BPF thought Mr S was out of time to raise a claim. They explained that the Limitation Act
1980 allowed him only six years to do so.
PR escalated Mr Ss claim to this Service in June 2021. They expanded on the claim at that
point. There were a number of allegations and its not practical to list them all here, but I
have taken note of them. They said the nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented
and that there had been an unfair relationship which enabled them to raise claims against
BPF under sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Our investigator explained that the Limitations Act 1980 (LA) gave Mr S six years to make a
claim and as he hadnt done so until 2020, he was out of time.
BPF didnt engage further and insisted Mr Ss claim to them in November 2020 had been
made out of time.
PR disagreed. They said the misrepresentations made by the supplier were fraudulent and
that they only became aware of a cause to complain when they saw material online about
timeshare mis-selling and when they saw coverage of a high profile case. They said the
running period was therefore postponed under section 32 of the LA. They said that BPF
should have known known the supplier, who Ill call C didnt hold the correct authorisation
to broker the finance agreement and that BPF had concealed that from them and section 32
of the LA should be applied to extend the period within which a claim could be made by Mr
S. They said there was a general public policy reason for not allowing finance companies to
absolve themselves of liability for their agents.
Mr S, through PR, therefore asked for a final decision from an ombudsman and the
complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since our investigator issued a
view on this complaint. Im not currently inclined to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Mr Ss complaint to BPF in November 2020 concerned whether the supplier had the relevant
authority to permit them to broker the finance agreement. They needed to be licensed by the
Office of Fair Trading at that time. PR have expanded the complaint since they referred it to
this Service. We cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been
made to the business first. BPF havent engaged with PRs more recent submissions and
dont appear to have considered them. So, Ive only considered the complaint point raised
with BPF in Mr Ss November 2020 claim.
The Limitation Act 1980 and section 140A of the CCA
Mr S argues that C wasnt authorised to arrange the credit agreement on BPFs behalf.
Section 140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and a creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken with any related agreement).
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship existed between Mr S and BPF.
If the broker wasnt authorised I think its unlikely theyd be equipped to provide the
necessary advice to Mr S, and it may therefore be that there was an unfairness in the
relationship.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that,
when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the
credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here the
limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr S wishes to make is for
repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to
which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr S would have to bring an action within six years of the
date the credit was repaid. BPF have explained that the account was closed in September
2009 and that meant that at the latest Mr S would have needed to raise his claim under
s140A by September 2015. As he didnt raise his claim until November 2020, and as I cant
see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, I think
he brought his claim too late  which, in my view, is likely to give BPF a complete defence to
it.
The Limitation Act and section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA)
Mr S says that if the broker wasnt authorised they were prohibited by section 19 of FSMA to
arrange loans. Section 27 of FSMA makes allowances for recovery of money in those
circumstances, but that is again subject to a six year time limit under the LA and I therefore
think that claim was brought too late by Mr S and his representatives, for the reasons Ivealready explained.
Section 32 of the LA
S32 relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake, or concealment
are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered).
To conclude that there had been deliberate concealment under Section 32(1)(b) of the
LA, there doesnt have to have been a free-standing contractual, tortious, or fiduciary duty
to disclose a fact. It is sufficient if the non-disclosure was part of an unfair credit-debtor
relationship as this was a breach of a relevant duty. That issue was discussed in Canada
Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021]. A purchaser doesnt have to show that the Supplier
knew that concealment gave rise to a cause of action. Its enough that the concealment was
unconscionable  which means that the Supplier concealed something and was reckless as
to whether it had committed an actionable wrong.
Im not persuaded that Section 32 is likely to be engaged as Im not persuaded I have been
provided with sufficient information from Mr S to suggest the broker was unauthorised. I
dont therefore, think a court would find there was a reason to extend the limitation period.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Neither party provided any additional evidence or comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information and my provision decision, therefore, 
becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman