DRN-2089750
The complaint
Mr G complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr G acquired a second-hand car costing £6,990 funded by a deposit of 
£700 and the balance with hire purchase funding. It was some seven years old. Shortly after 
acquisition Mr G changed the number plate and says he discovered a crack in the front 
bumper. He encountered some other issues with the car, but I understand these have been 
repaired.
The dealer said it wasnt made aware of the crack until a couple of months had passed and it 
believed it had been caused after the car had been sold. Mr G complained to Oodle and it 
said it had no evidence that the car had not been fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Initially he didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he hadnt seen clear 
evidence that the damage had been present at the point of sale.
Mr G submitted photographs he had taken the day after he collected the car which showed 
some distortion of the front grille and this matched with the crack shown on the photographs 
he had sent earlier with the number plate removed. Our investigator accepted that the 
damage had occurred prior to the sale and was concealed by the number plate. 
He recommended that the car be repaired by the dealer at no cost to Mr G. Oodle asked for 
copies of the photographs which had been taken in January but have yet to respond to the 
investigators recommendation and so it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is clear that the front of the car is damaged and that the most obvious sign of the damage 
lay behind the number plate. When that was removed the crack was clear. Mr G changed 
the number plate a few weeks after getting the car and I understand he took it to the dealer 
some two months later. I can see why the dealer took the view that the crack happened 
after the sale, but looking at the photographs with the number plate removed it does look like 
it has been there for some time. Mr G has said it wasnt caused while he had the car and 
having looked closely at the photographs taken the day after the sale I can see there is 
some distortion in the front grill which aligns with the crack in the bumper.
Given the damage appears to be present on the day after the sale I believe it is reasonable 
to conclude that it was present at the point of sale. I also note that the photographs with 
plate removed show the old plate intact and this would suggest that the car had not been 
involved in an accident with Mr G as the dealer had suggested.
I appreciate Mr G has concerns that there is more fundamental damage to the car beyond 
the crack and that may be the case. However, I cannot say what repairs will be necessary, 
but I consider that Oodle should ensure they are carried out at no cost to Mr G.
Putting things right
I consider the damage to have been present at the point of sale and so I consider Oodle 
should cover the cost of repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to arrange and pay for the damage to the front of the car to be repaired and for Mr G to be 
provided with a like for like car for the duration of any repairs at no cost to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman