DRN-2737384
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy for subsidence.
  
What happened
In 2019, Miss A got in touch with RSA because shed noticed cracking in her conservatory. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for investigations to 
establish the cause of the problem.
The loss adjusters findings were, in summary:
The conservatory was built on a 400mm foundation in a clay subsoil.
Whilst conservatories are typically exempt from Building Regulations, they usually 
require a foundation at least 1,000mm deep.
The standards of a certain builder of new homes, N, suggest the foundation ought to 
have been at least 2,300mm deep.
The foundation was inadequate and as the policy doesnt cover damage caused by 
faulty design, the claim was declined.
Miss A wasnt happy with this and complained.  She said she bought the house in 2008 with 
the conservatory already in place. The pre-purchase survey satisfied the mortgage 
companys requirements and didnt mention concerns about the conservatory.
RSA thought the loss adjuster had reached the right conclusion. It accepted there had been 
failings in its service and paid Miss A £50 compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. Whilst she didnt agree with all 
the points RSA had made, overall, she thought the foundation hadnt been designed in 
keeping with relevant standards of the time. But she didnt think it would be fair for RSA to 
decline the claim.
She said the conservatory had been built in 2005 and the damage first noticed in 2018, so 
the conservatory had stood the test of time. She noted the tree roots thought to be the cause 
of subsidence had been found to a depth of 1.5m. So even if the foundation had been built to 
around 1m deep, consistent with the main house and Building Regulations, she thought it 
likely subsidence would still have occurred.
To put things right, she said RSA should deal with the claim and pay an additional £250 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. Noting that Miss A had been in touch with 
experts to help her seek removal of the trees, she also said RSA should reimburse the 
associated costs, plus interest.
Miss A agreed.
RSA didnt. In summary:
It reiterated that it thought the foundation design was faulty and should have been 
deeper.
It noted the investigators comments about the age of the conservatory and the depth 
of the roots. But it didnt think either point was relevant as it considered the 
foundation was faulty.
It also thought there was evidence of previous repair to the conservatory
And it thought the pre-purchase survey suggested Miss A had been advised to take 
advice from an arborist.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and RSA accepts the conservatory has 
suffered subsidence damage as a result of nearby trees drying out the clay subsoil.
The policy doesnt cover any damage caused by or resulting from poor or faulty design. In 
summary, RSA considers the conservatory foundation design was faulty because it was too 
shallow. The onus is on RSA to show its fair to decline the claim for this reason.
The starting point is to decide whether RSA has shown the foundation design was faulty. 
Whilst there seems to be broad agreement that it was, I think its important to comment on 
the key points.
RSA considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. But I havent seen 
any evidence to show that the conservatory was subject to these standards. It wasnt built as 
part of a new home. There was no obligation on the builder to follow Ns standards. So Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to judge the design of the foundation against these standards.
The loss adjuster noted that conservatories tend to be exempt from Building Regulation. Its 
unclear whether RSA thinks Miss As is exempt. But I dont think that matters as Regulation 
is a credible source of guidance for good industry practice of the time. So Im satisfied it was 
something the builder ought to have taken into account when considering the foundation 
depth  even if they werent strictly required to comply with the Regulation.
I understand the conservatory was built in 2005. At this time, Building Regulation required a 
minimum foundation depth of 750mm in clay soils. RSA and the loss adjuster have 
mentioned a minimum requirement of 1,000mm but I dont think that became Regulation until 
2013. So I consider the relevant minimum is 750mm.
The investigation the loss adjuster arranged shows the conservatory foundation depth is 
400mm. I understand Miss A is concerned about the accuracy of that investigation. But I 
havent seen any alternative evidence to show a different foundation depth. So I accept what 
the investigation found.
That means the foundation was significantly below the minimum set out in the Regulations. 
Whilst those Regulations may not apply, Im not satisfied the evidence shows the Regulation 
was taken into account. Because of that, I consider the foundation design was faulty.
RSAs response to our investigator focused on this point. But it should be aware theres a 
second step to consider  whether the faulty design caused the damage. If its likely there 
would still have been damage even if the design wasnt faulty, then its unlikely to be fair for 
RSA to decline the claim.The Regulation sets out a minimum depth but it also notes that will commonly need to be 
increased to take due consideration of the ground conditions and influence of vegetation. 
RSAs investigation found the main house had a foundation depth of 1,100mm.
If the builder had taken into account the Regulations, I think its unlikely they would have 
extended the conservatory foundation below the main house foundation. So its likely they 
would have built a foundation at least 750mm and probably a maximum of 1.1m deep. That 
would be consistent with the Regulations need to go beyond the minimum  whilst being 
consistent with the main house. As roots were found 1.5m below the conservatory, that 
means the roots would still have reached below the foundation had the builder considered 
the relevant guidance. The investigator suggested to RSA this would have led to subsidence 
movement. RSA didnt challenge that point  it insisted the foundation was faulty. I 
understand that to mean RSA accepts movement would likely still have occurred, even if the 
foundation had been built to take into account Regulations.
As movement would have occurred even if the builder had designed the foundation in 
keeping with Regulations  which they werent strictly required to  Im not persuaded its fair 
to say the damage has been caused by faulty design. Its likely the damage would have 
occurred regardless of the faulty design. So Im not satisfied RSA has shown it would be fair 
to rely on the policy term for faulty design.
Ive thought about the other points RSA has made about the pre-purchase survey and the 
possibility of previous damage. But Im not persuaded they make a difference.
The loss adjuster took photos of the pre-purchase survey and gave their comments on it. 
They said the survey didnt identify any structural movement to the conservatory. And whilst 
it noted nearby trees, it said these were owned by the local authority and no action could be 
taken. Ive looked at those photos and this seems to be a fair summary. RSA has referred to 
a hand-written note on the front of the document which mentions an arborist, but Im not 
persuaded this means Miss A was advised to seek advice  or that this would indicate to her 
there was a problem with the conservatory. As a result, I dont think RSA has shown that 
Miss A was given the impression at the time of buying the property that there was a current 
or potential future problem with the conservatory.
RSA says theres evidence of previous repairs where the conservatory meets the main 
house. I think the point being made is that the structure may not have stood without damage 
for as long as the investigator thought. Whilst thats possible, I dont think that changes the 
points above. And I cant see this mentioned in the loss adjusters report following the 
inspection, so its not clear this was considered a significant factor.
Overall, Im not satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim. To put things right, it should 
now accept the claim.
The claim was declined in January 2020. Had RSA accepted the claim then, it would have 
avoided Miss A having to take the next steps in resolving the problem herself. That would 
have reduced the worry and inconvenience shes suffered since then, including the 
uncertainty about who will pay for the damage to be put right.
So I think it would be fair for RSA to pay compensation. Im satisfied £250 in addition to the 
£50 already paid is fair.
Since January 2020, Miss A has taken steps to seek removal of the trees thought to be 
causing subsidence. Shes arranged for regular crack monitoring, which is consistent with 
the steps RSA would usually take when trying to show a tree is causing subsidence. Miss A 
has paid for this and, if RSA had accepted the claim earlier, she wouldnt have had to. So Im satisfied its reasonable for RSA to reimburse Miss A what shes paid, plus interest. Miss A 
has provided four invoices totalling £954.
As part of accepting the claim, RSA should decide what the appropriate next steps are for 
the claim. That includes consideration of whether to continue the crack monitoring. If it does 
continue, I would expect RSA to pay for it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
accept the subsidence claim
pay an additional £250 compensation
pay a total of £954 to reimburse the monitoring cost
pay simple interest* at 8% a year on each monitoring invoice, from the date it was 
paid by Miss A until the date RSA settles it.
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give Miss A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman