The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the interest charged by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop 
Direct) on her Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement. 
What happened
Miss B signed a credit agreement with Shop Direct in 2011. This allowed Miss B to pay for 
online purchases on a credit basis. The credit agreement explained Miss B may sometimes 
pay for purchases by taking advantage of promotional funding options including BNPL. 
In March 2018 Miss B purchased a mobile phone. Miss B chose the BNPL option over a 12-
month period. The terms and conditions for the BNPL option explained that Miss B could 
avoid paying any interest on [her] BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost of the 
transaction before the end of the delayed payment period.  
Miss B was sent monthly statements for her account. Under a bold heading which said Buy 
Now Pay Later Purchases the statement sent in January 2019 explained:
We want to let you know that your payment free period with Buy Now Pay Later is due to 
end on the 15 Mar 19. Don't worry, you can choose from one of the following payment 
options;
1.You dont need to pay the full amount now.  To spread the cost of your items simply
do nothing and the cost of the item(s) £641.08 and the interest, estimated at £281.62,
will form part of your minimum payment so you can pay anything from the minimum
payment upwards each month.
2.Pay the full cash price of £641.08 by 15 Mar 19. This way you won't have to pay the
interest. Simply make your payment online or call us on 0800 092****. Its important
you tell us that your payment is towards your Buy Now Pay Later item:
The statement sent in February 2019 explained:
Buy Now Pay Later Purchases
Your Buy Now Pay Later item(s) have now been included in your minimum payment request. 
The great news is you still have the following payment options;
1.You don't need to pay the full amount now. To spread the cost of your items further
simply pay anything from the minimum payment upwards each month. Your interest,
estimated at £281.62, will be shown on your next statement.
DRN-12964412.Pay the full cash price of £641.08 by 15 Mar 19. This way you won't have to pay the 
interest. Simply make your payment online or call us on 0800 092****. Its important 
you tell us that your payment is towards your Buy Now Pay Later items.
 
Miss B was charged interest for the purchase made in March 2018. This appeared in her 
March 2019 statement. Miss B complained to Shop Direct after receiving this statement, 
saying that it wasnt made clear that the BNPL interest free period was ending. Miss B said 
she wouldve cleared the balance if this had been made clear. 
Shop Direct didnt offer any compensation, saying that the interest had been applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account. Miss B was unhappy with this response 
and referred her complaint to this service. The investigator found that Shop Direct had acted 
fairly, and didnt ask it to do anything in settlement of Miss Bs complaint. Miss B said shed 
like an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Miss B but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Miss B says shes made purchases with Shop Direct using the BNPL option before, so shes 
familiar with how this works. Miss B has also explained that it was her intention to clear the 
balance in full before the end of the interest free period. I dont doubt that Miss B wanted to 
clear the balance before the interest free period ended. Ive seen that Miss B settled the 
balance shortly after finding out that her account had been charged interest. 
Miss B feels strongly that the information on her statements explaining the interest free 
period, and when payment must be made by, was hidden away in small writing, and wasnt 
in bold. Miss B has also explained that she had been burgled, and had a lot of paperwork 
and stress to deal with at the time.
I appreciate Miss B has explained that she was going through a difficult time. But I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Shop Direct to pay compensation, or do anything in settlement of 
Miss Bs complaint, unless theres evidence that itd done something wrong. 
Ive looked at the statements Miss B was sent leading up to the expiry of the interest free 
period for her purchase. I think the information in the statement sent in January and 
February 2019 made it clear that the full balance of her BNPL purchase must be paid by 15 
March 2019 to avoid any interest being charged. Both statements explained Pay the full 
cash price of £641.08 by 15 Mar 19. This way you won't have to pay the interest. The 
January 2019 statement included this information on page one, under a heading in bold 
which said Buy Now Pay Later Purchases. I think this wording is clear. 
I think its fair to say that the responsibility to check the statement in full is with a customer. I 
understand Miss B says nobody reads the small print. Although it may have just been an 
oversight in not checking the statement in full, I still think the responsibility was with Miss B 
to check the statement, and confirm her understanding of when payment was due under the 
BNPL option. In the circumstances I dont think its fair to say Shop Direct did something 
wrong.Miss B says this information was hidden away, and not immediately obvious in comparison 
to the other information on the statement. But looking at the statement, I think Miss B was 
clearly told when the interest free period would end, and what would happen if the full 
balance wasnt cleared before this time. The interest applied to Miss Bs account is in line 
with the terms and conditions of the contract agreed to by Miss B at the time she made her 
purchase. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair to ask Shop Direct to do anything 
differently, or pay any compensation in settlement of Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman