DRN-4190737
The complaint
Mrs C complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs C was advanced four loans from Mr Lender and a summary of her borrowing can be 
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 31/01/2022 05/02/2022 4 £139.80
2 £500.00 12/02/2022 13/04/2022 6 £186.56
3 £400.00 20/04/2022 01/06/2022 6 £197.96
4 £300.00 06/06/2022 outstanding 4 £132.60
Each loan was structed so that each payment decreased in value through the life of the loan. 
Following Mrs Cs complaint Mr Lender wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold 
it  because it had carried out proportionate checks.  Unhappy with this response, Mrs C 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and she said Mr Lender had carried out 
proportionate checks which showed it each loan was affordable. And so she didnt uphold 
the complaint. She also explained that Mr Lender had taken the decision to only collect the 
capital due for loan 4  which left a balance of £35.40 to pay. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the outcome and in summary she said:
Mr Lender didnt do the checks that it claimed. 
Mrs Cs income wasnt as high as Mr Lender was told. She said her income was 
around £1,200 per month but this had been reduced due to being on sick leave.  
No evidence of Mrs Cs income was requested and bank statements werent asked 
for. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mrs C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs C was able to repay 
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
For all of these loans Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks. It asked Mrs C to 
declare her income and expenditure details and it also carried out a credit search. Mr Lender 
also says that for loan three it used a tool provided by a credit reference agency to check her 
income. For loan four it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data, her credit file as well 
as what Mrs C has declared to check her outgoings.  
Having thought about these checks Im satisfied they were proportionate, and the checks 
showed the loans to be affordable. Ive explained why below. 
Mrs C declared her income was £2,100 for loan one, and then between £4,119 and £4,599 
for loans two to four. Mr Lender says for at least loan three the figure was checked using a 
third-party tool provided by a particular credit reference agency. 
Mrs C has said that her income wasnt accurate, and she been on sick leave for several 
months. However, that information wasnt reflected in what she told Mr Lender at the time, 
and it also doesnt appear to have been reflected in the results of the checks that Mr Lender conducted. So, it didnt know and couldnt have known that her income wasnt as 
high. And importantly, at this point in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for it 
to have relied on what Mrs C declared without the need for checking her income through 
either bank statements or wage slips. 
Mrs C declared monthly outgoings of between £1,377 at loan one up to £2,131 for loan 
three. For loan 4, Mr Lender also used averages obtained from the ONS as well as the 
information Mrs C declared and from her credit file. Having done so, it increased Mrs Cs 
monthly expenditure from £1,429 to £1,781. 
In my view, the actions of Mr Lender were reasonable using a combination of the ONS data, 
what Mrs C declared and her credit file, so I dont think it wouldve been prompted to have 
checked the information any further. This means I dont think it wouldve needed to have 
viewed Mrs Cs bank statements.  
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mrs C had 
enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks or to have declined these loans. It knew Mrs C 
wasnt insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County 
Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loans. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for loan one Mrs C didnt have any 
outstanding payday loans. And she had one outstanding loan when loans two to four were 
given. But the presences of one other payday loan wouldnt have prompted Mr Lender to 
have either carried out further checks or to have declined the applications for credit, this is 
because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure assessment. 
There were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Mrs C was in financial 
difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
Overall, given the checks Mr Lender carried out Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the 
information Mrs C declared about her income and expenditure. The checks Mr Lender 
carried out where proportionate and showed Mrs C could afford her repayments.  There also 
wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either be unaffordable for her or 
unsustainable. 
An outstanding balance remains due on the final loan, and Mr Lender has let us know that it 
has taken the decision to collect only the remaining capital, which leaves an outstanding 
balance of £35.40 to pay. I would remind Mr Lender of its regulatory obligation to treat Mrs C 
fairly and with forbearance, if needed.  
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the approval of the loans.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman