DRN-3265748
The complaint
Mrs D complains Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont reimburse money she lost as a result of a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2021, Mrs D was contacted by someone purporting to be from a well-
known telecommunications company. She was told her internet had been 
compromised and someone was trying to access her accounts. Mrs D was told to 
download Anydesk so the caller could help protect her bank account. Mrs D logged 
on to her bank account and sent a faster payment of £3,000 to what she believed 
was a safe account. 
When being told it might take around 20 minutes to arrive in the safe account, Mrs D 
became more suspicious of the call. She went into another room and used another 
line to call Bank of Ireland. It wasnt able to stop her payment but did advise Mrs D to 
change her passwords and it cancelled her card. 
Mrs D complained but Bank of Ireland didnt think it had done anything wrong, as the 
payment had been authorised by her. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it either. She was satisfied Mrs D had authorised the 
transaction and the payment wouldnt have otherwise seemed unusual for her 
account, so she didnt think the bank ought to have intervened in it. She also 
explained the bank hadnt signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
and so its provisions didnt apply. 
Mrs D has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She says she was 
completely taken in by the fraudsters and truly believed she was putting her money 
into a safe account. She says she wasnt aware that once she swiped and authorised 
the payment that it would be held against her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payments rests with the payer even 
where they were duped into making that payment. Mrs D acknowledges she swiped 
to authorise the £3,000 transaction to leave her account  therefore, there is no 
dispute the payment was authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
In the months leading up to this transaction, Mrs D had made other higher payments 
out of the account.  And she had also used the same payment method as well 
online payments. Although this payment would have been to a new payee, Im not 
persuaded that of itself meant the payment was so unusual or so uncharacteristic, 
given Mrs Ds previous account operation, that Bank of Irelands fraud systems ought 
to have triggered. I therefore dont find it ought to have intervened in the payment. 
Faster payments are near instantaneous and once made, its my understanding they 
cant be stopped or reversed. So although Mrs D called Bank of Ireland within 
minutes, the payment couldnt have been stopped. The banks records also show it 
contacted the recipient bank to try and recover the funds within an hour of Mrs Ds 
call. This is well within the time limit of two days for such action. Its unfortunate that 
none of Mrs Ds funds remained, but that isnt unusual, scammers will usually 
withdraw funds as soon as theyre paid in. 
Finally, the investigator was right when explaining Mrs D isnt entitled to a refund 
under the CRM. This is a voluntary code which Bank of Ireland hasnt signed up to 
and so we cant apply those provisions to the payment made. 
Overall, and despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which she finds herself, I dont 
find Bank of Ireland did anything wrong and so I wont be requiring it to reimburse Mrs D. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman