DRN-3319522
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S have complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Halifax 
charged Mrs S and Mr S a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several potential benefits 
in return. They think that Halifax should refund the fees to them and add interest. 
What happened
I understand that Mrs S and Mr S have been customers of Halifax for quite a long time. 
Halifax has told us that they first opened one of its fee-free accounts during May 2008 and it 
sold them the URCA in May 2009. In 2018, they switched back to a fee-free account. There 
is no dispute about Halifaxs records of this account history, and I have taken it to be 
accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Halifax 
had mis-sold the URCA to Mrs S and Mr S. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Halifax 
should give them any money back. 
Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs S and Mr S and Halifax have told us or sent us about the complaint and I 
have decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
As Halifax sold the URCA to Mrs  S and Mr S over ten years ago, neither party has been 
able to send us any detailed records from the time. So, I cant be sure exactly what 
happened. Instead, Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to 
have occurred.
In 2009, Halifax was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. It could do so 
without giving personal advice, on an information-only (or non-advised) basis. Or,  it could 
give personal advice and recommendations in an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Halifax used for Mrs S and Mr S, I would have expected it to give them 
a choice and to tell them about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly. And in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if they had a potential need for the 
benefits which the URCA could provide. 
Halifax and Mrs S and Mr S have agreed that it sold them the URCA during a meeting at one 
of its branches. Halifax has said it did so on an information-only basis, but Mrs S and Mr S 
have told us that it advised them to buy it. Mrs S and Mr S have given us quite a few details 
about this and Im satisfied that at the time they certainly believed that Halifax was 
personally recommending the URCA to them. So, I have considered their complaint as being 
about an advised sale.
Mrs S and Mr S have told us that in May 2009 they wanted a mortgage to buy a house but 
were finding it difficult to obtain one. Theyve explained that for them the main purpose of the 
meeting was to discuss getting a mortgage. Indeed, Halifax sold them a mortgage at around 
the same time. 
The crux of Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint is that they think Halifax used the meeting to 
strongly persuade them to buy the URCA. Theyve told us that it applied a lot of pressure 
to take out the (URCA....and they...)  were concerned that (they) would not be able to get the 
mortgage without the URCA. They think Halifax misled them and that they could have had a 
mortgage with their existing fee-free account.
At that time, Halifax offered several different mortgages and Im not sure which particular 
one it sold to Mrs S and Mr S. However, some of its mortgages included an interest rate 
which was fixed for several years and were only available to customers who held URCAs or 
had a current account into which they paid a certain amount each month. Customers with 
URCAs could also receive £120 cashback when their mortgages started. At that time, the 
monthly fee for the URCA was £10 (although it increased a few months later to £12.50) so 
the cashback could have been equivalent to about a years fees for the URCA. Customers 
with URCAs could also receive a discount on Halifax home insurance. 
So, it seems to me that even though the main purpose of the meeting may have been to 
discuss a mortgage, it would have been reasonable for Halifax to have raised the subject of 
an URCA and how it may have been of interest to Mrs S and Mr S. Halifax may well also 
have told them that they could only get some of the mortgage-related benefits I have 
described by buying an URCA. But as this was true, it would have been a fair thing for 
Halifax to say. 
Of course, Halifax should certainly not have applied pressure to Mrs S and Mr S to buy the 
URCA. However, by May 2009, Mrs S and Mr S had held a fee-free account with Halifax for 
quite a while and I havent seen anything to make me think that Halifax told them they 
couldnt keep that account and still get a mortgage (albeit with the possible condition of 
having to pay a certain amount into it each month). Nor do I think that Halifax told them they 
couldnt keep the fee-free account for any other reason. I accept that Halifax may have 
talked positively about the URCA during the meeting, but this isnt the same as applying 
pressure. I doubt that it did. I think it probably allowed them a choice.
Although Mrs S and Mr Ss main concern was about the link between the URCA and the 
mortgage, in fairness to them I have also checked to see if Halifax did anything else 
significantly wrong in the way it sold them the URCA. 
I have already mentioned that Im satisfied Halifax allowed Mrs S and Mr S a choice and 
there is no dispute that it told them about the fees. At the time, the benefits of the URCA 
included use of a car breakdown service, and insurance for mobile phones and travel. As 
Halifax was trying to sell the URCA to Mrs S and Mr S, Im confident it told them about these 
benefits as it was in its own interest to let them know what they could get for their monthly 
fee. 
I understand that Mrs S and Mr S travelled from time-to-time (although I accept the 
frequency of their travels was less than we thought in the early stages of our investigation 
into their complaint), and they went onto register several mobile phones for the insurance. 
And, of course, they may have been interested in the mortgage-related benefits of the URCA. So, it seems to me that it was reasonable for Halifax to recommend the URCA to 
them. 
Mrs S and Mr S have told us that in 2009 they had a company car and so had little need for 
the car breakdown service the URCA provided, although they have accepted that they used 
it once, in 2010. However, the URCA came as a package, and although Mrs S and Mr S may 
not have had a significant need for the car-breakdown service, this doesnt mean that Halifax 
was wrong to advise them to buy the URCA.
So, in summary, I doubt that Halifax pressured Mrs S and Mr S into buying the URCA and 
that it misled them about the link between buying it and getting a mortgage. Im satisfied that 
it allowed them a choice, gave reasonable advice, and told them about the URCAs cost and 
benefits. I dont think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Mrs S and Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give them any money 
back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman