DRN-4228306
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund 
them the money they lost when Mrs K fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs K hold a joint account with Halifax and are represented in this case. As Mrs K 
was involved in the scam, I will mainly refer to her in this decision. 
Both parties are aware of what happened in this case, so I wont set out all the detail here. 
Mrs K says she received a generic marketing email followed by a call from someone who 
claimed to be from a company Ill refer to as A to discuss investment opportunities. She was 
advised to begin with a minimum investment of £250 which it seems she paid from another 
account. Mrs K was advised to install a screen sharing application to allow the 
representative of A access to her computer to make trades and to create an account on a 
money management app Ill refer to as S. She also says she provided identity documents to 
register on the website. 
The representative of A called Mrs K regularly and she was able to see that her trading was 
going well on a platform. Mrs K was told that to make more profit she needed to invest more. 
I understand that Mrs K made payments from other accounts but Im only considering the 
ones she made from her Halifax account in this decision. 
On the instructions of the representative of A Mrs K made the following transactions using 
her debit card. Each payment was to S (but Mrs K said she didnt have access to the 
account, although it was in her name) and from there to a cryptocurrency wallet. 
Payment 
no.Date Amount
1 05/08/20 £1,800
2 06/08/20 £2,000
3 06/08/20 £2,000
4 06/08/20 £4,000
5 06/08/20 £4,000
6 14/08/20 £1,500
7 14/08/20 £2,500
8 21/08/20 £5,000
Total £22,800
Mrs K says she didnt complete any checks before making the payments. 
Mrs K realised shed been the victim of a scam when she logged into her account and saw 
she had a zero balance. She then found that As website was no longer available and her 
calls to A werent answered. Mrs K didnt report what had happened until her representative 
complained on her behalf in November 2022.
Halifax said it had no reason to intervene when Mrs K made the first payment. It spoke to 
Mrs K before processing the second payment, and she confirmed that nobody had asked her 
to send the money. Based on the information Mrs K provided, Halifax allowed Mrs K to make 
the second and subsequent payments. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said she didnt receive any warnings from Halifax in spite of transferring over £22,000 over a 
nineteen-day period. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint initially upheld it in full. In response, Halifax 
accepted that it could have done better in its call with Mrs K on 6 August 2020. But Halifax 
felt that Mrs K hadnt completed any checks before investing, and understood enough 
English to follow the scammers instructions, so should share responsibility for her loss from 
the second payment onwards. Mrs K didnt accept Halifaxs offer and asked for a final 
decision. She said that Halifax should have done more to protect her account and her limited 
English during the call ought to have caused Halifax concern.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply to 
card payments so isnt relevant here. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. I dont consider Halifax needed to intervene when Mrs K made the first payment. In the 
period before the scam, she had made larger value payments so it didnt look unusual, and 
Halifax cant reasonably intervene in every payment journey. 
Halifax chose to intervene when Mrs K made the second payment in the table above. Its 
debit card fraud advisor said in a call with Mrs K at the time that Halifax sees a lot of fraud 
with payments to S. She went on to say that she wanted to double check nobody asked Mrs 
K to make the payment and she knew the person she was sending funds to. These were the 
only questions Mrs K was asked. I accept she gave an incorrect answer but agree with the 
investigator that Mrs K was asked two questions at once. I also think that if Halifax felt the 
need to intervene it needed to go further than asking these two questions rolled together. It 
didnt take any steps to establish the payment purpose, for example, so that it could provide 
a tailored warning. So, Im pleased that Halifax has offered to refund 50% of all transactions 
from payment two onwards. 
This means the only outstanding point to decide is whether its fair to make a deduction to 
take account of Mrs Ks own actions. On balance, I agree with the investigator that Mr G and 
Mrs K should receive 50% of payment two onwards and will explain why. 
- Mrs K has said that she didnt complete any research before deciding to invest as 
she was only investing £250 (from another account). Whilst Mrs K might have been 
prepared to risk this initial sum, Im not satisfied she acted reasonably in investing 
much more significant sums without completing any research into A or its 
representative. And if Mrs K chose to take a risk I dont consider it fair that Halifax 
should take full responsibility for this. 
The fact that Mrs K says she was put under pressure to invest greater amounts 
doesnt remove her responsibility to do what she could to check that the opportunity 
offered was genuine.
- Mrs K allowed an unknown third-party remote access to her device. In doing so she 
placed a lot of trust in someone she hadnt verified. Mrs K had no reason to believe 
that A was genuine or that the representative she was talking to actually worked for 
A.
- Mrs K wasnt provided with a contract or other documentation as would be expected 
if the investment was genuine. 
- Mrs Ks representative says she provided identification documents but hasnt 
evidenced this. 
Mrs K has said that Halifax should reimburse her and Mr G in full because it should have 
been clear from the call in August 2020 that her English was limited. Having listened to the 
call I think Mrs K understood what was being said and I note that she hadnt made Halifax 
aware that she might need support. And if Mrs K didnt understand what the scammer told 
her she ought reasonably to have sought assistance before deciding to invest. 
In light of what Ive said above, Im satisfied Mrs K should share responsibility for her loss 
from the second payment onwards. 
As Mr G and Mrs Ks funds were sent to a genuine company and from there to scammers 
there is no possibility of recovering their lost funds. 
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear about this cruel scam, I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for Mr G and Mrs Ks full loss but consider Halifax should share responsibility 
from payment two onwards.
My final decision
I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
- Refund Mr G and Mrs K £10,500; and- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement. 
If Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G and Mrs K how much it 
has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction certificate if asked for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman