DRN-2943034
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly turned down 
part of her claim made on a caravan insurance policy.
What happened
A flood hit the site where Mrs S kept her caravan and she contacted RSA to claim on her 
policy for the damage caused. RSA investigated, among other things, by obtaining evidence 
from one of its loss adjusters and through examining images of the site and the caravan 
provided by the loss adjuster and Mrs S.  
Based on the information provided, RSA agreed to settle part of the claim  for the damage 
caused to Mrs Ss shed, its contents and her caravan steps  but not for the artificial turf on 
Mrs Ss veranda. RSA considered the flood waters were unlikely to have caused that 
damage given the levels the waters were believed to have reached, where the flood hit and 
the position of Mrs Ss caravan on the site.  
Believing that RSA hadnt assessed her claim fairly, Mrs S complained to RSA. She asked it 
to reconsider its decision and pay the claim in full. 
RSA confirmed that it believed it had dealt with the claim correctly, so Mrs S brought her 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but ultimately didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. They felt RSA had settled the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions and had acted fairly. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators findings. She felt her claim was genuine and that 
RSA was trying to, in her words, fob her off. Her complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that flood damage was caused to Mrs Ss caravan or at least part of it. 
RSAs agreed to settle part of her claim and I understand Mrs S is happy with that aspect of 
her claim. So that leaves it for me to consider whether it was fair for RSA to decline the 
remainder of the claim, which relates to the artificial turf on her veranda. 
I note RSAs referred to the following policy terms and conditions in reaching the decision 
that it has:
What is covered
We will pay for Damage to Your Structure, Contents and Personal Possessions, by 
an insured cause, occurring during the Period of Insurance.

We will not pay for the cost of replacing, repairing or changing any undamaged items 
or parts of items forming part of a set, suite, carpet or other items of common nature, 
colour, design or use. This applies if the other items can still be used and the 
Damage only affects one part of the item. 
RSAs also disclosed information to us regarding the flood in support of its decision that 
concerns consumers other than Mrs S. Because of the sensitive nature of that information 
RSAs asked us  I believe quite reasonably  not to share it with Mrs S. That said, Ive 
considered the information very carefully. 
Without going into the specifics here, I believe the claims information RSAs gathered gives it 
a unique insight into which caravans were affected and the likely extent of any damage 
sustained. The information gathered suggests to me that while some caravans in other parts 
of the site were more severely affected by the flooding, caravans such as Mrs Ss were 
unlikely to have sustained damage of the type, or to the extent, shes claimed.  
RSAs said the turf was on the same level as the bottom of the caravan door and the floor of 
the caravan itself. Which means that if the turf was flooded its also likely that the contents of 
the caravan would have been damaged too. But it points out that theres no suggestion in 
the claim that Mrs S made that the contents of the caravan itself were affected. Ive also 
reviewed RSAs initial claim notes and the list of items Mrs S originally noted as being 
damaged and no mention was made of any damage to the turf on the veranda until later.
I think the conclusions RSAs drawn here about the type of damage it would have expect to 
have seen are reasonable given the evidence and images provided, and in the absence of 
persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise. Those conclusions are also consistent with the 
online research RSAs made available to us which suggest exposure to water or flooding 
arent risk factors in artificial turf shrinking. 
So, I dont think RSAs done anything wrong in declining the claim in relation to the turf. 
Thats because I cant safely say, from the evidence provided, that there was flood damage 
to the turf. And, as a result, I think RSAs settled the claim appropriately in line with the policy 
terms.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman