DRN-4034276
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr A says he had no knowledge of any fraudulent use of his account in March 2021. He 
found out about the CIFAS marker when applications for accounts at other businesses were 
rejected and then complained.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made any mistake. It provided details to this service of a payment 
of £1,945 into Mr As account on 2 March 2021 which had been reported as being 
fraudulently obtained. The money was quickly transferred on. And so Monzo Bank closed 
the account and added the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Monzo Bank 
had provided details of access to the account including the unique device code and the IP 
address used. Only one device had been registered when the account was opened by Mr A 
on 12 November 2020 and the security details had never been changed. This device was 
used to authorise the movement of the fraudulent funds. So, she thought that Mr A had been 
complicit in receiving fraudulently obtained money. She noted that hed provided evidence of 
being subject to identity fraud at other financial businesses but didnt think that this was the 
case here. 
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He offered to pay half of the 
money if the marker was removed noting it had been in place for a third of the normal six-
year period. Mr A said he didnt think we understood the impact on his career and mental 
health. He didnt think wed looked at all the possibilities. And said that someone had made it 
look like this was him accessing the account. He referred to proven instances of identity 
fraud from May 2020 to April 2021 involving his details. 
Mr A said he had no knowledge of the payments into his account after he first used it. And 
the payees for the payments although at times similar to his name didnt correspond exactly 
and so he thought couldnt have been made to him. He believed that the IP address was 
hacked. Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank didnt follow the correct procedures and contact 
him at the time. He said hed lost his wallet in early 2021 but this didnt make sense to 
explain this fraud. He provided a copy of his current passport and said hed been using one 
that expired in 2018 to prove his identification on nights out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I appreciate here that Monzo Bank didnt ask Mr A for his explanation at the time. Hes 
been given the opportunity to explain what happened now and Im not persuaded hes been 
disadvantaged by this.
He had provided a copy of his information at CIFAS. This shows that application fraud 
markers were added by other financial businesses in May 2020, June 2020 and April 2021. 
And hes shown his attempts to get information about them. Im not looking into what those 
other businesses did in a complaint about Monzo Bank. But clearly each concluded that 
hed been the victim of identity theft. In one case Mr A explains hed received a letter about 
a loan for £10,000 to his home address and was able to stop this being taken. Another 
related to an insurance policy taken out with his details.
He opened the account at Monzo Bank in November 2020. It seems that by then he was 
aware of the past issues and the application fraud markers would likely have involved more 
stringent checks by any new financial business. 
The device registered and the IP address were recorded as being used when Mr A opened 
the account. Im satisfied that the same device details have been used throughout the 
operation of the account. And the IP address used when the fraudulent money was paid 
out was the same as that used when his account was opened. 
Our adjudicator has discussed all the payments on the account with him. He says he only 
made the first small ones. And so didnt seem to have any use for the account. I note from 
Monzo Banks records that it was contacted by online chat on 26 November 2020 for help 
with a payment. This for £5 went out that day. And then there was a credit for over £3,000 
to the account on 30 November 2020 and which was paid out within minutes of receipt. I 
need to say that the statement narrative doesnt necessarily correspond to the name on 
any receiving account. There was a further credit from a government body of over £1,000 
in January 2021 that was again paid out within about 30 minutes of receipt.
Mr A has also provided evidence that he was in employment and says that his salary was 
going into another bank account. He has provided evidence that he was working at home 
on the day of the fraudulent credit.
Im satisfied that a payment of £1,945 on 2 March 2021 into his account was reported as 
fraudulently obtained and can see that all the money was quickly paid on by faster 
payment.Im not clear that his possible loss of either his Monzo Bank card and/or passport earlier in 
2021 is relevant here. And neither is that he said he wrote down passwords and kept them 
in his wallet. The account was opened before that loss and on Mr As version of events had 
then been taken over by a fraudster. 
While I dont have reason to doubt that hed been a victim of identity theft on other 
occasions I dont find it most likely that was the explanation here for a number of reasons. I 
note the time over which he says that the account was taken over, and during which a 
fraudster increasingly risked detection. It would seem hed already have a heightened 
awareness of the risks of identity theft and also when hed lost items. There is no evidence 
to support his Monzo Bank account being hacked. And there was no change to the device 
accessing it. The person making the payments needed to have access to the account just 
at the time payments came in and for example couldnt likely predict when the payment 
would arrive. Even if Mr A had say allowed someone else to use this account and device 
with his details (and which isnt his explanation) I consider hed be responsible for what 
happened. And he has no evidence to support how an unknown third party could have 
used his account. I finally note that he didnt seem to question why the account had been 
closed and again had no need to use it despite having opened it.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. Any 
filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial 
crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Monzo Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that it had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Given this Im satisfied the Monzo Bank had grounds to close the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. I appreciate what Mr A says about the impact of the marker for him but 
Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Monzo Bank to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman