DRN-1955301
 
 
Complaint
Ms G says Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy shed taken out with an RBS credit card in October 2003.
Background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt be 
upheld. But RBS has already offered to pay back some money to Ms G for the commission it 
received from the sale.
Ms G still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place so the complaint has therefore been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint about being mis-sold the PPI.
Ms G told us she cant remember anything about how the PPI was sold to her. But I can see 
from the paperwork thats available from the time that she probably got an application form 
at a branch and either filled it in there or sent it in.
I havent seen anything to suggest this was an advised sale. The documentation doesnt 
suggest that RBS took account of Ms Gs personal circumstances before recommending this 
policy to her. But RBS still had to make sure it gave Ms G enough information about the PPI 
so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had 
to be fair, clear and not misleading.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Ms G would have known the policy was optional 
and that she didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. I can see from the PPI section on the 
credit card application form that Ms G has ticked a box to say she wanted cover. I think the 
wording on that form is sufficiently clear to show that Ms G didnt have to choose to take a 
policy out. 
RBS has also sent us one of Ms Gs credit card statements. I can see the PPI is listed there 
as payment protection. If Ms G wasnt aware shed taken a policy out, I think shed have 
queried what these payments were for at the time. Overall, Im satisfied Ms G would have 
known she had a choice about buying this PPI.I dont think the form is clear about the cost of the PPI. And I dont think Ms G would 
necessarily have known shed have to pay interest on the cost of her premiums if she didnt 
repay her credit card balance off in full every month.
So, the question for me now is whether Ms G would have acted differently if RBS had told 
her everything it should have done. To help me decide what shes likely to have done, Ive 
looked at what Ms G told us about her personal circumstances in 2003. And Ive also 
considered the terms and conditions of the policy.
I cant see that Ms G would have been put at a disadvantage by the main terms and 
conditions of the policy. She told us that she changed jobs but continued working so ought 
still to have been able to make a successful claim if the need arose. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on her PPI, 10% of Ms Gs credit card balance 
would have been repaid every month she was out of work for a maximum of 12 months. Ms 
G told us she was entitled to some work benefits from her employer if she wasnt able to 
work. She also told us about some limited savings she had. So I think this policy would have 
been useful, paying out in addition to and for longer than her full pay and avoiding the need 
to have dig into her savings or seek help from others. 
Overall, I think Ms G probably chose to buy this PPI at the time. And I think it was overall 
probably a good fit for her needs. So I think shed have still bought PPI even if RBS had 
given her clearer information about the way the card worked and its cost. 
It follows that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
As I said earlier, RBS has already agreed to pay back to Ms G the commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium and I can see thats already been 
paid. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman