DRN-3008881
The complaint
Mr C has complained to Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (Simpson Kelly) about advice he 
received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan.  
Mr C is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr C was unsure what he should do so he contacted Simpson Kelly for advice. Mr C met 
with Simpson Kelly and completed a fact find and risk questionnaire. But as Simpson Kelly 
didnt have the necessary permission to advise Mr C on the pension transfer, he was 
referred to another firm, Ill refer as to Firm R, for advice on the pension transfer. 
With assistance from Firm R, Mr C transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. The 
agency for the personal pension was then switched to Simpson Kelly for it to provide 
ongoing advice and servicing of the policy. Mr C stopped this arrangement with Simpson 
Kelly in 2019.  
In February 2020, Mr C with assistance from his representative, complained to Simpson 
Kelly about the advice he received to transfer. Simpson Kelly rejected the complaint. It said 
that it hadnt provided Mr C with advice; that had been provided by Firm R. Mr C also 
complained to Firm R. By this time, Firm R was in liquidation. The insolvency practitioners 
acting for Firm R rejected the complaint because it said Mr C had been made aware that he 
would be giving up valuable guarantees if he transferred. 
Mr C didnt accept what Simpson Kelly said so he referred his complaint to our service for 
review. Mr Cs representative provided detailed submissions to this service, setting out why 
Simpson Kelly is jointly responsible or the advice Mr C received to transfer his pension. 
In summary, Mr Cs representative has said that Simpson Kelly and Firm R operated a joint 
venture, and their combined advice led to Mr C transferring his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. Simpson Kelly completed all the paperwork and the transfer of benefits from the 
BSPS happened within days of the referral to Firm R. Mr C says he didnt have any contact 
with Firm R prior to the transfer and only received the suitability letter after the transfer had 
been finalised. Although Firm R may have taken responsibility for the transfer, if it wasnt for 
Simpson Kellys advice, Mr C wouldnt have transferred his pension as he did. 
Mr Cs representative believes that, given Simpson Kellys overwhelming role in the transfer 
of the plan, it should be responsible for putting Mr C back in the position hed be in now if he 
hadnt transferred. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but they concluded that Simpson 
Kelly couldnt be held responsible for any loss suffered by Mr C as a result of his pension 
being transferred. So they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C has asked for a final decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm R arranged the transfer. Firm R had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer and the BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr C, the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Rs involvement. Firm R has been declared 
in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Therefore, any 
complaint against Firm R is now a matter for the FSCS; its not something this service can 
assist with. 
Although Firm R is responsible for the pension transfer, I have considered whether Simpson 
Kelly should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr C to transfer out of the 
BSPS. 
Having considered the available evidence, I think it is possible that Simpson Kelly verbally 
advised, or gave Mr C a strong impression, that he should transfer his pension from the 
BSPS to a personal pension. I say this because Simpson Kelly completed a fact-find with Mr 
C and gathered information about his objectives. It looks like it also assisted Mr C with 
writing statement confirming that he understood there was an 8% penalty but that he still 
wanted to transfer. Its not clear what the purpose of this statement was, but it appears to 
have been written before the referral to Firm R. And in Simpson Kellys referral to Firm R it 
stipulated where Mr Cs funds were to be invested.  
Mr C says that he signed the BSPS transfer form with Simpson Kelly. This isnt surprising 
given that the introduction letter from Firm R to Mr C states that Simpson Kelly would be 
assisting Mr C with the documentation. However, its clear from this letter that the advice 
about transferring is being provided by Firm R.   
Ive also considered the introduction email from Simpson Kelly to Firm R and it seems to me 
that Simpson Kelly was operating on the presumption that Mr C would most likely transfer 
his pension. And I think Mr C probably believed Simpson Kelly was going to advise him to 
transfer out of his pension too, although I do note that he understood that Firm R needed to 
be involved in the process. 
But crucially Mr C couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with Simpson Kelly 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr C 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr C would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It was Firm 
R that provide this confirmation. 
Simpson Kelly didnt give any formal advice in respect of the pension transfer. And given that 
Simpson Kelly didnt have the right permissions, Mr C couldnt have transferred out of BSPS 
based on the meetings he had with Simpson Kelly or any verbal advice he might have been 
given by it.  I accept that Simpson Kelly received part of the advice fee following Mr Cs 
transfer, as a result of it introducing Mr C to Firm R. But, ultimately, Firm R gave the advice 
for Mr C to transfer, and I dont think Simpson Kellys involvement automatically makes it 
liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R.
Mr C was Simpson Kellys client, and it clearly did a lot of the background work prior to a
recommendation being made. So, I dont think it is unusual that Simpson Kelly facilitated the
completion of the transfer paperwork, particularly as it would be providing ongoing servicing
and advice to Mr C. And even though the advice fee was split, it is my view that Firm R
remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr C to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr C would have still opted to transfer his benefits
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Cs
representative says Mr C was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with 
Simpson Kelly, who verbally advised him to transfer. But on balance I dont think Mr C 
wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm R. Mr C was an inexperienced investor 
and Simpsons Kellys fact find states that he wanted to take a cautious approach given that 
it was the only pension he had. So, if Firm R had provided Mr C with clear advice in writing 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him given his cautious attitude to 
risk, I dont think Mr C wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his discussions 
with Simpson Kelly. 
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately
enabled Mr C to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm R is responsible for
Mr Cs losses flowing from the transfer. Im aware that Firm R was declared in default by the
FSCS, so Mr C will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS. 
Mr Cs representative has said that even if Simpson Kelly didnt give advice, its still liable for 
this matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. 
Its referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it 
considers supports its argument that Simpson Kelly should be held jointly liable for advice 
provided by Firm R.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts 
and merits relating to Mr Cs dealings with Simpson Kelly. I wont be considering Simpson 
Kellys alleged acts or omissions in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm R. 
And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of Firm R in its dealing with Mr C because 
this complaint is about Simpson Kelly rather than Firm R.
Mr Cs representative says Simpson Kelly breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr C 
fairly and have due regard to his best interests when dealing with Firm R. But Simpson Kelly 
didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a pension transfer, so it couldnt be 
expected to advise Mr C not to transfer. When a firm doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to refer clients to a firm that does. And I 
think on balance its more likely Simpson Kelly referred customers to Firm R on the 
understanding that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm R 
would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think Simpson Kelly were allowed to rely on Firm R, who 
were regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, 
to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Rs obligation to provide Mr C with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr C to transfer, Firm R - as the experts in this field  ought to 
have clearly told him. 
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Simpson Kellys advice that ultimately 
led to Mr Cs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm R. I am also 
not persuaded that Simpson Kelly made an error or treated Mr C unfairly in the role it carried 
out.  Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require Simpson Kelly to pay compensation to Mr C or to take any further action in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman