DRN-4200803
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with the way Sainsburys Bank Plc have recorded her name on her credit 
card account. 
What happened
In April 2022 Ms W spoke to Sainsburys to add her mobile phone number so that she could 
receive a passcode. During the call Ms W provided her full name and Sainsburys updated 
its records. From this point onwards Sainsburys began to refer to Ms W using her first 
name, rather than her second name. Ms W is unhappy because prior to this Sainsburys had 
used an initial for her first name and referred to her using her second name in full, which is 
what she prefers.
Sainsburys explained it was required to hold Ms Ws full and correct legal name and it was 
unable to complete her request to refer to her using her second name. However, it accepted 
it could have provided better customer service during the call and offered £75. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think Sainsburys had acted 
unreasonably because their process wouldnt allow Ms Ws name to be recorded in the way 
she wanted. She thought the offer of £75 was fair and reasonable. 
Ms W didnt agree. In summary, she accepted the need for Sainsburys to record her names 
but remained unhappy about the way in which they appear on her letters and account 
statements. 
Because Ms W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys have said their guidelines and fraud prevention measures requires them to 
record Ms Ws correct legal name which is why they updated their records. This doesnt 
sound unreasonable, so I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong by recording on their 
systems the correct legal format of Ms Ws name.
Ms W says Sainsburys had no right to change the format of her name which she gave during 
the account opening. Although I accept Sainsburys had previously been using Ms Ws name 
in the format she prefers, she opened her account over 20 years ago. As things change over 
time, I would expect Sainsburys to keep up to date with new requirements. So I dont think 
Sainsburys did anything wrong in updating its records.
Ms W says she hasnt complained about Sainsburys recording her full name but about the 
format in which they have chosen to address her on their letters and account statements. 
However, Sainsburys have said abbreviating Ms Ws first name to an initial on their system 
is not possible. Taking this into account, and the fact that Sainsburys are using Ms Ws 
correct legal name, I dont think theyve done anything wrong referring to her by her legal 
name.
Although Ms W is frustrated by this and wants Sainsburys to change their system, this is a 
commercial decision for Sainsburys and isnt something I have the power to direct them to 
change.
Ms W has said the format of her name Sainsburys is using is not accurate because that isnt 
the name that she uses. Whilst I appreciate Ms Ws argument, for the reasons Ive explained 
above I dont think its unreasonable that Sainsburys would use her first name as it legally is. 
Sainsburys explained that it may be able to fulfil Ms Ws request if her name was legally 
changed and the correct evidence was provided to them. Ms W feels this is unreasonable. 
Whilst I understand Ms W may not want to go through this process, Sainsburys have said 
they wouldnt be able to refer to Ms W as she wants without this.
I agree that Sainsburys shouldve told Ms W during the phone call in April 2022 it would be 
using her first name moving forwards, particularly as it had been corresponding with Ms W in 
line with her preference since her account had opened. So I think that the offer of £75 to 
reflect this is fair and reasonable.
I realise Ms W feels very strongly about her complaint. Amongst other things she says 
Sainsburys have wilfully and persistently get her name wrong. I am sorry to hear that she 
finds Sainsburys actions deeply offensive but for the reasons Ive outlined above I dont 
think Sainsburys need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman