DRN-2223440
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim 
on his breakdown repair policy.
Mr T took the Acromas policy alongside roadside assistance cover from a well-known 
motoring organisation (MO). The MO administers the breakdown repair policy on Acromas 
behalf. So, for ease, Ill refer to the actions of the MO as being those of Acromas except 
when the MO was providing another service such as breakdown recovery.
Background
Mr Ts car cut out and wouldn't start. He called out the MO. The MO said that his car would 
need to be looked at by a garage but that couldn't be arranged until the next day. The 
following day the MO came out again and Mr T took his car to a garage.
The garage said it thought the issue was with the cars timing chain but that its engine would 
need to be stripped in order to find out what was causing the issue. The garage said it would 
cost around £600 to strip the engine and repairs could cost a further £1,000.
Mr T rang Acromas. He said he thought the issue was simply with the car overheating and 
not the timing chain. Acromas didn't agree. Mr T recovered his car and later called the MO 
again before taking his car to another garage. That garage said that there was an issue with 
the car overheating. Acromas said that was a secondary issue. And the reasons the car 
wouldn't run initially was because of a timing chain problem. It said that if Mr T had the 
overheating issue repaired and that fixed the cars problem which caused the initial 
breakdown then it would authorise the claim. But if sorting out the overheating didn't fix the 
initial problem then Mr T would have to pay for those repairs himself.
Mr T didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 1 September 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
Mr Ts policy says that if certain criteria are met then Acromas will contribute up to £500 for 
the costs of repairing his car following a breakdown. But Acromas won't contribute £500 
towards each and every repair his car might need. And in order to be eligible the MO must 
have attended a breakdown which caused the car not to start or stopped it from continuing 
its journey safely.
But there are things the policy doesn't cover, which includes:
any faults identified by, or reported to, the [MO] mobile mechanic, [MO] appointed garage 
agent, or Your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial Breakdown.
In other words the policy will cover a contribution towards repairing the cause of the initial 
breakdown where the MO attended but not for anything else that might be identified 
afterwards. In this case the dispute has arisen over what the initial fault was which caused 
Mr Ts car not to run and the MO to attend to it. Mr Ts said that the MO diagnosed an 
overheating fault from the outset. In contrast Acromas said that Mr T didn't describe an 
overheating problem when he called the MO. And the MOs first patrol who looked at Mr Ts 
car noted that the issue was a cam sensor. The first patrol didn't refer to any overheating 
issues. Similarly, the second patrol that attended noted a crankshaft sensor issue. And the 
first garage that Mr Ts car went to felt that the issue preventing Mr Ts car from starting and 
running was an issue with a timing chain. Acromas technical advisers have explained that a 
timing chain issue would show faults connected to both cam and crankshaft sensors. And 
the garage said the engine would need to be stripped to confirm the cause of the issue with 
the timing chain.
Mr T said that the issue with the car was always caused by it overheating. And he thinks that 
the faults relating to a thermostat and water pump are what needed to be sorted out. And he 
thinks that Acromas should fund the cost of that work.
Ive noted that the first garage agreed that when it first looked at the car it was showing four 
fault codes. Those were for: the cam shaft; crank shaft; thermostat and water pump. And the 
last two could cause the car to overheat. But the garage felt that the problem Mr T described 
with the car, which included it making a terrible noise and not starting, were related to the 
cars timing chain and that any overheating issue associated with the other two fault codes 
wouldn't have caused those problems.
Ive noted that our investigator felt that, because Mr T and the garage owner knew each 
other prior to these events, the garages assessment of the car might not be reliable. But Ive 
seen nothing that indicated that garage owner had anything to gain by providing anything 
other than an honest assessment of what he felt was causing the cars breakdown. And Ive 
heard a call in which the garage owner told Acromas that he was happy to do whatever work 
it (or Mr T) authorised him to do. So I don't think that the garages assessment of the 
mechanical issues was unduly influenced by any previous dealings with Mr T or that the 
garage owners analysis wasn't reliable.
Further I've noted the MO and Acromas technical experts shared the garages view of what 
was causing the cars problems. The MOs initial two patrols didn't refer to an overheating 
issue on their paperwork. And as Ive said above Acromas technical experts have said why 
an issue with the timing chain would cause the problems Mr Ts car had, and that those 
would cause fault codes for the cam and crank shafts. Theyve also explained that an 
overheating issue wouldn't cause the same problems.
So I can understand why Acromas didn't want to authorise work relating to the cars 
overheating. Because it didn't think that would fix the underlying problem which had caused 
the cars breakdown in the first place. And theres no evidence, beyond Mr Ts comments, 
that either of the MOs first two patrols who attended to the car initially identified an 
overheating issue. Instead that was discovered later by the first garage. And the first garage 
didn't think that had caused the breakdown. So if the overheating didn't cause the initial 
breakdown then its repair wasnt covered by the policy. It follows that I can understand why 
Acromas initially said it wasn't going to authorise repairs for the cars overheating problem.
Mr T is convinced that the initial issue was because the car was overheating. But he hasn't 
provided any evidence from a mechanic or other expert to support that view. Im aware that 
when Mr T took the car to a second garage it said that there was an overheating issue. But 
its not in dispute that the car had an overheating issue; what is in dispute is whether it 
caused the initial breakdown or not. And the evidence I've seen is that the cause of the initial 
breakdown was the issue with the timing chain. I would also point out that Acromas didn't 
refuse to settle the claim associated with the timing chain but it wanted further diagnosis, which would require the engine to be stripped before it authorised that work. And given that 
not each and every breakdown would be covered by the policy, I don't find that 
unreasonable.
But in any event, I've noted that Acromas told Mr T that if he paid to have the overheating 
issues fixed, and it fixed the underlying problem with his car, then Acromas would cover the 
costs (up to £500) of the repair. But it said that if it didn't fix the issues with the car not 
starting or running then Mr T would need to cover the repair costs himself. I think that was a 
reasonable solution in the circumstances. But Mr T chose not to authorise those repairs 
himself. That was his choice alone. And I think Acromas has offered to deal with the repairs 
in line with the terms of Mr Ts policy. So I think its treated him fairly.
Developments 
Acromas didn't have any further comments. Mr T didn't reply.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr T nor Acromas objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman