DRN-3629457
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a caravan supplied to him by Park Holidays UK Limited (Park) and 
financed through a hire purchase agreement with a finance provider, was misrepresented.
Mr F is being represented in this complaint. However, for ease of reference, Ill only refer to 
Mr F within my decision.
What happened
On 22 April 2018, Mr F was supplied with a used caravan by Park, financed through a hire 
purchase agreement with a finance provider Ill call B. He paid a £5,000 deposit and the 
agreement was for £45,000 over 84 months, with monthly repayments of £777.84. Mr F 
subsequently re-mortgaged his property and repaid this finance.
Mr F has explained that he purchased the caravan with the intention that his daughter and 
her partner would use it as their primary residence, while they saved a deposit for a home of 
their own. And this is what happened for almost two years.
However, in 2020, the UK Government imposed lockdown restrictions because of the 
coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. As a result, holiday parks were no longer able to operate, 
and Park closed their site, asking everyone there to vacate their caravans. This meant that 
Mr Fs daughter and her partner were no longer able to live in the caravan.
Mr F has said this situation meant that he had to sell the caravan. And hes said that Park 
used the lockdown as an excuse to delay the sale, during which time he was required to 
continue to pay site fees. Hes also said that, because Park had the right of first refusal, he 
was forced to accept a lower offer from Park, despite having higher offers from elsewhere. 
Mr F complained to Park that they misrepresented the sale of the caravan, as hed been told 
that permanent occupancy was allowed. And other people were living in their caravans on a 
full-time basis at the same site. Park didnt agree, and said they abided by the site licence. 
However, they did offer Mr F a £1,500 gesture of goodwill.
Mr F wasnt happy with Parks response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, for misrepresentation to be present, a false statement of fact 
needs to have taken place. And that that false statement of fact induced Mr F to enter into an 
agreement he otherwise wouldnt have done. 
From the evidence hed seen, the investigator said that the paperwork provided to Mr F 
made it clear that the caravan was purchased as a holiday home and couldnt be used as a 
main residence. It also made it clear that the caravan couldnt be hired out to the same 
household group for more than 28 days in a year. The investigator also said that Parks 
website made it clear that the site wasnt open all year-round.
Given this, the investigator didnt think there has been any false statement of fact, so he 
didnt think the sale had been misrepresented to Mr F.
The investigator also explained that as Park were a credit broker, we wouldnt be able to 
consider the complaint about the sale of the caravan back to Park, as this wasnt related to 
the hire purchase agreement Park arranged, or related to the original sale.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he didnt use the caravan as his 
permanent residence, but there was nothing in the agreement that didnt allow the caravan 
to be used as someone elses main residence. And he said that he never charged his 
daughter and her partner any money, even though they paid us what they could towards the 
loan/mortgage but that cannot be considered payment to hire the caravan.
Mr F also raised an issue with the site fees he paid to Park. However, as with the complaint 
he had about the sale, the pitch fees arent related to the hire purchase agreement Park 
arranged, so they arent something were able to consider.
Mr F has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation, Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr F to choose the caravan.
Ive seen a copy of the finance agreement with B that Mr F signed on 22 April 2018. And this 
doesnt mention anything about the usage of the caravan. As such, Im relying on the 
information that Mr F was provided by Park.
Ive seen a copy of the Licence Agreement with Park that Mr F signed on 22 April 2018. This 
clearly states that this agreement does not permit you to use the Unit as a permanent 
residence. While I appreciate Mr Fs view that he didnt use the caravan as his permanent 
residence, the agreement is clear that the caravan cant be used as a permanent residence. 
Meaning no-one can use it as a permanent residence  this restriction is not limited to Mr F.
The agreement also says that Hiring out of the Unit is permitted by us for Holiday and 
Recreational use only. While Mr F has said that the payments his daughter and her partner 
paid cannot be considered payments to hire the caravan, I disagree. They were only 
making the payments because they were living in the caravan. And, while the payments may 
not have been for a regular amount, or paid on a regular basis, regular fixed payments are 
not a pre-requisite of hiring or renting. And Im satisfied that, by making payments to Mr F, 
his daughter and partner were hiring the caravan. And they were using it for purposes other 
than holiday and recreational use  it was intended to be their permanent residence. 
Whats more, the Terms and Conditions of Sale clearly state 1.5 The Holiday Home is sold 
for holiday use only and shall only be occupied during the holiday season on the specified 
park  exact opening and closing dates to be as the discretion of the Company.
So, by allowing his daughter and her partner to live in the caravan full-time, Mr F was 
breaching the agreement he signed.Mr F has also provided a copy of the Holiday Home Ownership brochure provided to him by 
Park. And hes highlighted a section which says:
You can visit your holiday home whenever you like, with no restrictions on how 
often, or for how long you stay during the season. Season lengths vary from 8 to 11 
months depending on the park.
Park clearly refer to the caravan as being a holiday home, which by definition would mean it 
wasnt a permanent residence. And the highlighted section, while referring to there being no 
restrictions on how long you can stay, this is still referred to as being during the season. 
And, by specifying that season lengths vary, but by quoting these as being 11 months 
maximum, the brochure also clearly implies that its not possible to stay in the caravan for a 
full 12-months  it has to be vacated for at least 2 weeks of the year.
So, if its not possible to stay in the caravan permanently, then it follows the caravan cant be 
a permanent place of residence. 
Given all this, Im satisfied that the paperwork Mr F received and signed made it clear that 
the caravan couldnt be used as a permanent residence.
Despite the evidence above, Ive also considered if Mr F was told verbally by Park that the 
caravan could be used as a permanent residence. Ive seen that, in an email to B dated 28 
June 2021, Mr F also confirmed that we were mis-sold the caravan under the impression 
that the family could live there provided they vacated [the site] for a two-week period set 
aside for essential maintenance every January. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr F was aware that the caravan couldnt be lived in all 
year-round. And it follows that, if there are restrictions as to when you can live somewhere, it 
cant be classed as a permanent residence. And, as Mr F was fully aware of the restrictions 
on use, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Park didnt verbally tell Mr F that the 
caravan could be used as a permanent residence.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, Im satisfied 
there was no false statement of fact given. So, the sale wasnt misrepresented. And its now 
for Mr F to decide whether or not to accept the £1,500 offered by Park.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Park Holidays UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman