DRN-2636588
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she received unsuitable advice from Phoenix Life Limited in 1989 
when it advised her to set up a personal pension plan (PPP) rather than join her employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
What happened
In 1989, Mrs C took pensions advice from Phoenix Life. Her circumstances had recently 
changed following a divorce and she wanted to make provision for her retirement. Mrs C 
was in her mid-30s at the time, working for a public sector employer in a professional role.
 
Phoenix Life recommended she set up a PPP and also that she contract out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). Mrs C accepted these recommendations.
Paperwork from the time of sale showed that Mrs C wasnt a member of her employers 
(OPS), Mrs C said she was eligible to join the OPS and later did, in August 1994, 
following encouragement from her manager.
Mrs C believes the advice she received to set up a PPP instead of joining her OPS was 
unsuitable for her circumstances and that she was financially disadvantaged as a result 
of following the recommendations made. Mrs C states that she missed out on the 
enhanced benefits which she would have got through her OPS had she joined that 
instead
Phoenix Life says it offered Mrs C the opportunity to have the advice reviewed as part of 
the industry-wide pension review in letters it sent to her on 21 October 1995 and 4 
January 1996. It says Mrs C didnt respond to these letters. Mrs C said she was living at a 
different address at the time and didnt receive them.
Phoenix Life said due to the passage of time, it wouldnt be willing to carry out a review of 
the advice it provided as Mrs Cs complaint was out of time.
Phoenix Life did, however, provide our service with consent to consider the merits of this 
complaint. So there was no need for us to determine whether Mrs Cs complaint had 
been made to us on time under the DISP rules, which govern which complaints our 
service can investigate. As a result, our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mrs 
Cs complaint.  
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld because 
Phoenix Life was obliged to consider her general circumstances at the time of advice, 
including whether she was eligible to join her OPS, before making any recommendations. 
The investigator concluded that from the limited information available, she had not seen 
anything to suggest Phoenix Life considered whether Mrs C could join her OPS. 
Our investigator took the view that the adviser ought to have been aware that given the 
nature of Mrs Cs employment she would likely have been able to join her employers 
defined benefit OPS, which provided valuable guaranteed benefits. Before providing Mrs C 
with any recommendations, our investigator felt it would have been appropriate for the 
adviser to have encouraged Mrs C to obtain her OPS scheme booklet so she could 
compare what was on offer and make an informed choice.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that, Mrs C was made sufficiently aware that her OPS 
would likely offer more valuable benefits compared to the PPP. She thought this wouldve 
been important to her as she was looking for the best option for her family following her 
divorce. 
The investigator also took the view that had Phoenix Life provided Mrs C with more 
suitable advice, that most likely she wouldve opted to join her OPS due to the 
guaranteed valuable benefits available, rather than being reliant on investment returns.
She also took the view that whilst the decision to opt out of SERPS may not have been 
inappropriate if the decision to join a PPP was a suitable recommendation, given that Mrs C 
couldve joined her employers OPS, this wasnt suitable advice either. She took the view 
that Mrs C had lost out as a result of this recommendation as suitable advice wouldve been 
for Mrs C to join her OPS, so contracting out of SERPS wasnt in her best interests.
To put things right our investigator said that Phoenix Life should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology.
Mrs C accepted our investigators recommendation. Phoenix Life did not, it said:
it was not obliged to review a policy if the customer did not respond to letters sent 
asking if they wanted a review;
it did ask Mrs C for details of her different addresses;
had Mrs C provided this information, and it been shown the pension review letters did 
not reach her, it would have considered reviewing her case as a gesture of goodwill;
Phoenix Lifes position remained that Mrs C was offered a review and failed to 
respond;
in relation to the investigators decision on SERPS this seemed inconsistent with 
other decisions reached by this service  it highlighted a specific case.
Our investigator responded and stated that having read the published decision referred 
to, unlike with Mrs Cs situation, this was a case where the complainant was not eligible 
to join their employers OPS, therefore the circumstances were different to Mrs Cs..
Mrs Cs complaint now comes to me for a  decision..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the decision reached by our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. I am going to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
To avoid any doubt, Phoenix Life has given its consent to us dealing with Mrs Cs complaint. 
This consent cannot now be withdrawn. So, we dont need to consider whether we have 
jurisdiction to deal with this complaint under the DISP rules.
As to whether it is fair to require Phoenix Life to carry out a review now of the type 
recommended by our investigator, I think it still is. I am satisfied that most likely Mrs C didnt get the letters sent by Phoenix Life in 1995 and 1996 . I say this because given what Mrs Cs 
told me about her address history, I dont think she was living at the address these letters 
were sent to at the time they were sent.
Looking at Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I agree that given Mrs Cs profession, her 
wider personal circumstances and the likelihood of her being able to join her employers 
OPS, the advice she was given back in 1989 by Phoenix Life appeared unsuitable. Further, 
Im not satisfied that she was given enough clear and fair information about her options to 
make an informed choice.
It follows that I therefore uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I think Mrs C has been caused some trouble and upset to her retirement planning as a result 
of this and that it would fair and reasonable for Phoenix Life to pay her some compensation 
to recognise this.
Putting things right
To put things right Mrs C, should be put as far as possible into the position she would 
now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Phoenix Life should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as amended by the FCA in 
October 2017
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions 
published by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation. Phoenix Life may wish to 
contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Cs contribution 
history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P) if applicable.
These details should then be used to include a 'SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of not joining the occupational scheme on 
Mrs C SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into 
Mrs Cs current pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into Mrs Cs current pension isn't possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss 
would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Phoenix Life should also pay Mrs C £300 to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused by 
the unsuitable advice.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and order Phoenix Life Limited to put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman