DRN-1249994
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he got from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) 
after he made a claim on his appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs washing machine stopped working properly. So he made a claim to D&G. He was 
first told that a repair agent wouldnt be able to come out to look at his machine for about 11 
days. He wasnt happy with this, so he asked D&G if this could be brought forward. D&G 
tried to book an appointment for about a week earlier, but thered been a problem with the 
repair agents booking system and it didnt have any appointments available. D&G 
suggested that Mr H call the repair agent directly the next day.
So Mr H called the repair agent directly. He later complained to D&G about the attitude of 
the repair agent. When D&G got in touch with the repair agent, it said it didnt have any 
appointments available any earlier than the original date Mr H had been offered. As the 
appointment was outside of D&Gs expected service times, it suggested another repair agent 
to Mr H.
Mr H called the alternative agent D&G had suggested. But after spending some time on the 
phone, it told him it couldnt repair his brand of washing machine. So Mr H contacted D&G 
again. At this point, D&G managed to arrange an appointment with a repair agent for a few 
days later.
The repair agent attended Mr Hs home and ordered a new part. This was fitted around 14 
days after Mr H first made his claim.
Mr H wasnt happy with the service hed received and he complained. D&G accepted it 
couldve provided better service and it paid him £55 for his trouble and upset and phone 
calls. Mr H didnt think this was enough compensation, given his experience and he asked 
us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
D&G had made mistakes in dealing with Mr Hs claim. But she didnt think these had 
significantly delayed Mr Hs washing machine being repaired. Overall, she thought the 
compensation D&G had paid Mr H was enough to put things right.
Mr H disagreed. He said the service had been poor and he had concerns about the attitude 
of sub-contractors and passing the blame. He said dealing with the claim had taken a lot of 
personal time and phone calls. He didnt think D&G had met its responsibility to him. And he 
said his machine has broken down again and hes back in the same cycle.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr H, I wont be telling D&G to pay him anything more. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr H didnt experience the service from D&G that he shouldve done. I can 
understand that waiting almost two weeks for an initial appointment from a repair agent 
wouldve seemed too long. It seems Mr H wasnt happy with the attitude of the repair agent 
he spoke to after being told to call it by D&G the day before. It mustve been very frustrating 
to be told to call another repair agent; spend over an hour on the phone; only to then be 
informed that the agent couldnt actually help with his repair. I can understand why Mr H felt 
let down by D&G and I do think that compensation for his trouble, upset and calls was 
appropriate in his case.
However, in deciding what fair compensation should be, I need to think about what 
happened and the impact D&Gs actions had on Mr H. I dont doubt that being without the 
use of his washing machine for two weeks caused Mr H frustration and inconvenience. And 
that spending time trying to deal with the claim only added to his inconvenience. Especially 
when Mr H was directed to a repair agent who couldnt help him.
But having considered everything, I dont think the poor service D&G offered delayed Mr Hs 
claim in any way. Mr H was told at the outset that the earliest appointment he could get was 
about 11 days after he first called. Because this was outside of D&Gs service standards, it 
ultimately managed to get an agent to his home within about a week. The agent was able to 
identify the problem, order the parts that were needed and the repair was carried out a few 
days later. It seems to me that even if the problem with the booking system hadnt 
happened, the date Mr Hs machine was looked at was the first possible date he couldve 
been seen. And the same part would still have been required. So I dont think D&G has 
caused any unreasonable delay.
I understand Mr H spent some time trying to deal with his claim and on the phone to D&G 
and its agents. And I agree that he shouldnt have needed to make some of these calls. But 
the major inconvenience to Mr H was not being able to use his washing machine. And I cant 
fairly hold D&G responsible for the fact the washing machine wasnt working  
Overall, I think the £55 compensation D&G has paid him is fair and recognises this. Its 
broadly what I wouldve told D&G to pay if it hadnt already offered Mr H compensation. So I 
wont be telling it to pay Mr H anything more.
Im sorry to hear Mr Hs washing machine has stopped working again. If hes unhappy with 
how D&G responds to his claim, hell need to complain to it again before we can look into 
any new complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman