DRN-2521193
The complaint
Mr Fs complained that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance  which meant he lost the opportunity to build up his no claims bonus and had to 
pay a higher premium for alternative cover.  
What happened
In June 2019, Mr F contacted a broker to arrange motor insurance. The broker arranged a 
policy with Lloyds. The policy only permitted Mr F to drive 4,000 miles in the policy year.
Towards the end of 2019, Mr F contacted Lloyds because hed almost reached his annual 
mileage limit. During that call, Mr F also told Lloyds that hed moved house. Lloyds reviewed 
the new information, following which they wrote to Mr F giving him seven days notice of their 
intention to cancel his policy.
Mr F complained.  He said Lloyds decision had meant hed had to take out more expensive 
insurance  partly because hed not had the chance to build up his no claims discount.  
In their response, Lloyds said that, when he moved, Mr F moved to an address which fell 
outside their risk criteria  so they couldnt continue to provide him with cover.  They offered 
Mr F a pro-rata refund of his policy premium. But Mr F declined this offer, because he 
thought Lloyds should cover the amount it had cost him to buy a replacement policy.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered it but came to the conclusion 
that Lloyds shouldnt have done anything differently. He explained that insurers dont have to 
insure against every risk theyre asked to  they can decide not to accept certain risks.  He 
said Lloyds policy document made that clear. 
And he thought Lloyds had given Mr F enough notice they were going to cancel his policy. 
Finally he said hed have expected Lloyds to make the pro-rata refund theyd offered. So he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
I came to a slightly different conclusion from our investigator.  So I made a provisional 
decision.  I was satisfied that Mr Fs policy documents explained that he needed to make 
Lloyds aware of various changes in circumstances  including a change of address.  And I 
was satisfied the documents also explained that a change in circumstances might mean that 
Lloyds would stop providing cover.  Finally Id seen that Lloyds had given Mr F notice theyd 
be cancelling his policy.  So he had a chance to find other cover.  I thought theyd acted fairly 
in that.
But Lloyds hadnt refunded Mr F his unused premiums.  Theyd offered to  but Mr F had 
originally rejected that as a resolution of his complaint.  But I thought they should still make 
that payment, because when they cancelled his policy, they stopped providing the cover hed 
paid for.
In reply to my provisional decision, Lloyds said theyd arrange for the refund to Mr F once 
they receive my final decision.
Mr F accepted my provisional decision about cancelling his policy.  But he said he thought 
the policy document could have more clearly defined the changes in circumstances he 
needed to tell Lloyds about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in line with my provisional decision.  Ill 
explain why.
Ive thought about the comments Mr Fs made.  And Ive looked at his policy document 
again.
Theres a section headed Changes to your details.  This says:
You must tell us immediately about any changes to the information you have already 
provided.  Please contact your broker if you are not sure if information is relevant.  If you 
dont tell us about relevant changes, your insurance may not cover you fully, or at all.
Here are some examples of the changes you should tell us about:

A change of address
.
I think that statements clear.  And, even if Mr F wasnt sure exactly what it meant, the policy 
says what he needs to do  contact his broker to get advice.  I dont think Lloyds needed to 
anything more than this to make Mr F aware of what he needed to do.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, even though I think Lloyds dealt with the process of 
cancelling Mr Fs policy fairly, I dont think it was fair for them to keep the whole of his 
premium.  Whats fair is for them to refund Mr F the premium of the remainder of the policy 
year  which Lloyds have confirmed is £364.24.  So thats what Im deciding they should do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint against the Society of Lloyds and 
directing them to refund Mr F £364.24.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman