DRN-4224962
The complaint
W, a Limited Liability Partnership, complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc stopped 
paying interest on two of their accounts without telling them, and was slow to respond when 
they queried the position.
What happened
W had several accounts with RBS. Among them were two accounts which W opened long 
before RBS started offering specific client accounts. Although they were standard business 
current accounts, W used them to hold client money. In October 2019 RBS wrote to W to 
say that it would no longer be paying interest on credit balances on those two accounts from 
13 January 2020.
W say they didnt receive the letter RBS sent in October 2019. They did realise that interest 
was no longer being received, but they assumed that this was due to the low base rate at the 
time. However, they noticed that in contrast to other accounts W held, interest still wasnt 
being paid on the two accounts in question even after rates began to rise. 
W raised the issue with RBS in October 2022, commenting that they often held substantial 
sums of money in the accounts, and should have been receiving interest, for which they had 
a duty to account to their clients. RBS, however, responded that the two accounts were non-
interest-bearing. 
W say they thought that the fact that interest wasnt being applied to the accounts was a 
mistake, and asked RBS to put the position right. They continued to contact RBS over the 
next few weeks. In early December 2022 Ws relationship manager confirmed again that the 
two accounts were non-interest-bearing, but couldnt explain why, or when W had been told 
that interest would cease to be applied. W say he told them he would set up a complaint and 
theyd hear from the complaints team within 10 working days. Having heard nothing further, 
they chased the matter up in late February 2023. When they hadnt received a substantive 
response by early March 2023, they brought a complaint to this service.
RBS issued its final response to Ws complaint in April 2023. It said that a letter had been 
sent to the correct address, informing W that interest would no longer be paid on the two 
accounts. And it said the decision not to pay interest couldnt be overturned. It suggested 
that W might wish to consider opening a client deposit account, which did pay interest  
although it acknowledged that, based on previous conversations, it might not be an ideal 
option for W for practical reasons.
W say they lost out on the interest that they consider should have been paid. They say their 
reputation has been damaged, as clients were unhappy that their money hadnt earned 
interest. They had to spend time raising the issue and rectifying client ledgers to account for 
a fair amount of interest in order to fulfil their regulatory responsibilities. Theyd like RBS to 
pay interest on the two accounts, based on the rates applied to other RBS accounts in 2022 
and 2023. Theyd also like an apology from RBS for having stopped paying interest without 
telling them, and for having failed to deal promptly with their complaint, and theyd like 
compensation for the time theyve spent dealing with the matter.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he was satisfied that RBS had notified W that it was going to stop paying interest 
on the account. Although he accepted that RBS had delayed in providing a full response to 
W, he said that hadnt prevented W from seeking alternative accounts.
W disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent, I make my decision based on what I think 
is most likely to have happened.
W say that it was RBSs failure to explain why the accounts werent receiving credit interest, 
and to tell them that the change was permanent, that meant that they didnt open new 
accounts sooner.
But while I accept that RBS was obliged, under the terms and conditions of the account, to 
give W at least 60 days notice of its decision to stop paying interest on the accounts, I dont 
accept that it was also obliged to tell W why it had taken the decision. It was a commercial 
decision which RBS was entitled to take. 
Im satisfied that RBS sent W notice in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts that it would no longer be paying interest on the accounts. The terms and 
conditions that RBS originally provided to us post-dated the change to the account. But it 
has subsequently provided a copy of the terms and conditions which Im satisfied applied 
both at the time that the notice was sent and at the time that the change came into effect. 
And having seen those terms and conditions, W accept that RBS was entitled to stop paying 
interest on the accounts on giving 60 days notice, but they dont accept that notice was, in 
fact, given.
W have suggested that the fact that they queried, in October 2022, why no interest was 
being paid on the two accounts is, itself, evidence that the October 2019 letter wasnt 
received. They have also commented that the letter was addressed to a former partner of W, 
who they say left the partnership around ten years ago, and that RBS would have been 
aware of that. 
As W have pointed out, the letter was system-generated, and I think it more likely than not 
that it was sent automatically to the name and address RBS had on record for the account 
and that it was correctly delivered. And even if the individual to whom the letter was 
addressed had left the firm, Ws name was included in the address, and I think it would have 
been apparent that the letter concerned Ws business. So I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect W to open it.
W have said that at the very least, they believe that RBS should pay interest on the two 
accounts backdated to October 2022, when they first queried why interest wasnt being paid, 
until new accounts are open. But I dont consider that it would be fair to require RBS to do 
that. Ive explained that Im satisfied that RBS gave notice in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions that it would no longer be paying credit interest on the two accounts in 
question from 13 January 2020. W asked in October 2022 for details of interest being paid on the accounts and were told that 
the accounts were non-interest-bearing. I acknowledge that this appears to have come as a 
surprise to W, and that their relationship manager wasnt able to explain why the accounts 
were non-interest-bearing. It may be that W hoped that it would turn out that the change was 
a mistake, and that RBS would rectify it. But although RBS was aware that W were unhappy 
about the situation, Ive seen nothing to make me think that RBS gave W any reason to 
believe that the change might be a mistake, or that it might be temporary. 
W pointed out to RBS within days of first querying the lack of interest that other accounts 
were paying interest of between 0.5% and 1%, and they said that if their general client 
account were to remain non-interest-bearing, they may be forced to look at other options, 
particularly if the base rate continued to rise as expected. W could have applied for new, 
interest-bearing accounts at any time after learning that the two accounts no longer earned 
interest. I dont consider that I can fairly hold RBS responsible for the fact that it didnt do so 
sooner.
W has said that it would like RBS to apologise for its handling of the complaint. But the rules 
which cover the types of complaint that we consider only allow us to consider complaints 
about regulated activities. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and so Im unable to 
require RBS to take any action in respect of its handling of Ws complaint. 
Im aware that W would like us to give them copies of all correspondence weve had with 
RBS in the course of this complaint. But W have been provided with a copy of the letter 
dated October 2019, warning that credit interest would no longer be paid, and a copy of the 
account terms and conditions which applied at the time. Im satisfied that W have had sight 
of the evidence Ive relied on, and Ive set out my reasons for reaching my decision. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded theres any good reason to share the correspondence 
weve had with RBS with W.
W have referred to issues theyve had in opening new accounts with RBS, but I understand 
that this is being taken forward as a separate complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman