DRN-2441351
The complaint
Mr T complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly suspended the opportunity to sell his existing
peer-to-peer crowdfunding loans on its secondary market.
What happened
Mr T opened a peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in July 2014 
and an Innovative Finance ISA (IFISA) account in August 2018. Funding Circles
platform allowed investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest
payments. Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for 
investors to access their money early by selling their loan parts to other investors by way of 
a secondary market.
In April 2020 Funding Circle made the decision to temporarily pause the secondary market 
and to stop new retail lending as part of its ongoing measures to protect investor returns 
while it evaluated the potential impact of Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that investors were 
no longer able to access their money early by selling their loan parts before the loans 
matured.
Mr T complained to Funding Circle as he felt it was unfair for it to remove the option for him
to be able to sell his loan parts early on the secondary market. He said that the money he 
had invested was for a house deposit and so having the ability to access his money by 
selling his loans parts was a key consideration for his decision to invest with Funding Circle. 
Mr T said Funding Circle had been deceptive with the way in which the secondary market 
would work. He said that if nobody purchases loan parts on the secondary market within 120 
days then the loan parts are delisted from sales queue. He complained that this effectively 
makes liquidation impossible when loan demand is outstripped by investor funding. This is 
because any new funds invested go directly to new loans on the platform rather than to 
loans on the secondary market. He said Funding Circle mustve have known the secondary 
market was failing or about to fail when he invested but still allowed him to invest.
M T also complained about his ability to transfer his IFISA from Funding Circle to a new ISA 
provider. He says he didnt receive any notification from Funding Circle to acknowledge it 
had received his request and he wasnt happy that it couldnt action the request until he had 
sold all the loans in his account. 
Funding Circle considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the ability to sell loan
parts on the secondary market wasnt ever guaranteed and this was made clear in its terms
and conditions. Funding Circle explained that it has a regulatory obligation to ensure loan
parts sold on the secondary market are appropriately priced. The ongoing pandemic posed a
number of significant unknowns, such as the length of the restrictions facing businesses or
the severity of any resulting economic impact. And so, it wasnt currently possible to reflect
how those unknowns may impact the businesses which investors, such as Mr T, were
lending to and price those existing loans accordingly. Funding Circle said it was therefore
prudent to pause the secondary market to protect investors returns. Funding Circle 
explained that Mr T was still able to have access to his funds by withdrawing the 
accumulated monthly capital and interest repayments from the businesses hed lent to.
Funding Circle also considered Mr Ts complaint about his IFISA transfer. It explained that 
as Mr T requested a full transfer and had a sale request ongoing on his IFISA account, it 
was required under its standard practice to wait for his total portfolio to have been sold 
before transferring the funds. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the response he received from Funding Circle, so he referred his
complaint to this service for an independent review. An investigator looked into the 
complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. She said that whilst she appreciated Mr T felt 
the investment was presented as liquid, the investor terms he agreed to explained that there 
was no guarantee that loan parts would be sold on the secondary nor the length of time it 
could take, as this is subject to demand from other investors.
The investigator also explained that Funding Circles regulatory obligations meant that it 
needed to fairly and appropriately price loans sold on the secondary market and she agreed 
that the current conditions caused by the uncertainty of the ongoing pandemic meant that it 
wasnt currently possible for Funding Circle to do this. Funding Circles terms and conditions 
explained that it could make changes to the services it provides and so she felt Funding 
Circles decision to pause the secondary market was fair.
The investigator also considered Mr Ts complaint about his IFISA transfer but also didnt 
uphold this. She said the investor terms explained that a transfer cannot be completed if 
funds are being lent out and so Funding Circle needed to wait for his funds to become 
available as cash before the transfer could be completed. She noted Funding Circle had 
received the transfer request in September 2019, but it hadnt sent him an 
acknowledgement. She said it would have been good customer service to have sent an 
acknowledgement but explained shed queried this with Funding Circle and it had explained 
that its not part of its process. Nevertheless, shed considered the detriment this has caused 
Mr T but felt that the impact of not being notified didnt warrant any compensation. She said 
he hadnt chased Funding Circle up for an update and didnt contact it until Funding Circle 
contacted him in March 2020. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he felt he was misled by Funding
Circles website when opening the account as it said he would always have options to
access his money early. He said no warnings were given to him about the potential to
remove the secondary market. He said Funding Circle ought to have let investors know that 
selling wasnt only subject to demand from investors but also subject to the availability of the 
secondary market.
Mr T didnt agree that Funding Circles decision to temporarily pause the secondary market 
was in response to the pandemic. He said the risk position of a loan is established at the 
moment a loan is taken out by the borrower and cannot be subsequently re-priced. As such, 
it shouldnt have any impact on the ability to understand the price when its transferred from 
one investor to another. He added that market conditions dont stop Funding Circle from 
being able to price loans as it was offering Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme 
(CIBLS) loans. 
Mr T also explained that he didnt get in touch with Funding Circle about his IFISA transfer 
as he received confirmation from his new ISA provider saying it was handling everything. As 
such he assumed that everything had been handled accordingly.The investigator considered Mr Ts points but didnt think they changed her opinion. As such, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since passing the complaint to me, Mr T has provided further information and has explained 
that Funding Circle has taken the decision to permanently close the retail platform for new 
investments - including buying and selling loans through the secondary market. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very carefully considered the detailed submissions that Mr T has provided. I can confirm 
that Ive read and considered his submissions in their entirety. However, I hope Mr T doesnt 
take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission or every point he has 
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to explain my findings on the 
key issues. 
In reaching my decision, Ive considered Funding Circles regulatory obligations. Funding
Circle is authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA
regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and
guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
COBS 18.12.17R Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is 
facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm 
must ensure that the price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and 
appropriate.
Funding Circle needed to ensure that the information it gave Mr T regarding his account was
clear, fair and not misleading. It also needed to pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and, more specifically in this case, ensure any price offered for exiting loan parts
was fair and appropriate.
Funding Circles terms and conditions relevant at the time Mr T opened his account
explained:10.2 You can withdraw available funds that have not been lent or allocated for
lending from your Investor Account. If you want to have access to any funds that
have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling them to
other Investors.
[...]
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so.
From these terms and conditions, I think Funding Circle made it clear to Mr T that if he
wanted to access his funds early he would need to either withdraw what funds he had
available or attempt to sell his loan parts early to other investors. Whilst the secondary
market provided an option for Mr T to explore when looking to access his funds early,
Funding Circle made him aware that his ability to sell loan parts in this way was never
guaranteed. This point is also made clear throughout Funding Circles website and investor 
guide which further explains that the ability to do so depends on their being demand from 
other investors. I appreciate Funding Circle didnt explain it could pause the secondary 
market on a temporary basis (or on a permanent basis as it eventually did) but I dont think 
this renders the promotion of investing through Funding Circle misleading. Im satisfied that 
enough information was given to Mr T to make him aware that selling via the secondary 
market wasnt guaranteed and he ought to have only invested if he was happy with the risk 
of not being able to exit early. 
Funding Circle has explained why it decided to pause the secondary market. 
Notwithstanding the fact that I don't think it was guaranteed or contractual, Ive considered
its reasons and think they're also fair and reasonable in the circumstances it faced during the
onset of the global pandemic. As outlined above, Funding Circle must ensure that it fairly
and appropriately prices loan parts sold on the secondary market. Clearly, its ability to do so
has been impaired by the pandemic. Generally, investee businesses ability to repay loans
has been affected by the pandemic which in turn makes lending riskier. Ultimately, Funding
Circles choice to pause the secondary market is a commercial decision which its entitled to
make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether Mr T has 
been treated unfairly as a result of that decision. Whilst I appreciate Funding Circles
decision to pause the secondary market is inconvenient for Mr T as he wants access to all
his money now as this is savings he was looking to use to purchase a house, Im conscious 
that allowing him to sell his loan parts to other investors could be unfair due to the increased 
risk of the loans defaulting and capital lost. Whilst its not clear to what degree the risk of Mr 
Ts loan parts has increased, its not my role to determine this. 
I understand Mr T feels strongly that the decision to pause and remove the secondary 
market wasnt in relation to the fair pricing rules. I agree that risk position is established at 
the moment a loan is taken out by the borrower and the price the borrower pays remain the 
same throughout. However, I dont agree that the price a seller of a loan receives and 
consequently, how much a buyer of a loan pays cant be subsequently re-priced. I say this 
as the risk of a borrower not repaying a loan can change from the inception of the loan and 
as such the purpose of COBS 18.12.17R is to ensure a loan is fairly prices in consideration 
of the risk at the time a loan is transferred from one investor to another. 
Ive also considered Mr Ts comments around Funding Circle offering CIBLS loans, but I 
dont think it has any bearing on the outcome of my findings. Again, Funding Circles choice 
to offer CIBLS loans is a commercial decision which its entitled to make and isnt something 
this service can change. CIBLS loans are a different product to P2P loans and Funding 
Circle isnt under the same obligations under COBS 18.12.17R.  
Funding Circle has also provided further reasons for pausing its secondary market since thecomplaint has been passed to me. From these, its clear that there were several 
considerations which Funding Circle has thought about whilst implementing the
pause to the secondary market. These include difficulty with pricing, a change in lending
focus, diversification and illiquidity. Clearly market conditions meant that Funding Circle 
made the decision to not to take on new loans and consequently to not have a secondary 
market. Uncertainty continued for a long period due to the impact of the pandemic on the 
wider economy. During this time, Funding Circle made commercial decisions on changes to 
its operations and has focused away from P2P lending. Funding Circle wasnt prohibited 
from making decisions it benefited from, as long as it took the interests of its customers into 
account first. And for the reasons Ive given, Im persuaded thats what it did, especially 
considering the ability to sell via the secondary market was never guaranteed.
I think its important to also note that even if Funding Circle hadnt made the decision to 
temporarily pause and eventually remove the secondary market its not clear whether Mr T 
would have been able to sell his loan parts to other investors. Clearly investor appetite had 
diminished due to the global pandemic and Funding Circle has explained that queues to sell 
on the secondary market had increased considerably.
Mr T has also raised concerns around Funding Circles control over where funds were 
invested. He says any new funds invested go directly to new loans on the platform rather 
than to loans on the secondary market. However, I dont think this is correct. Prior to the 
pause of the secondary market, Funding Circles automated lending tool assigned loan parts 
from both new loans listed on the platform and loan parts that were being sold by other retail 
investors through the secondary market  ensuring investment was diversified whilst 
remaining in line with an investors risk profile. When the secondary market was paused in 
April 2020, Funding Circle also paused new investment meaning no new loans were 
available on the platform. Funding Circle was offering CIBLS loans but these werent funded 
by new retail investment. As such, I cant agree that the allocation of funds had any bearing 
on Mr Ts ability withdraw his funds. 
On a final note, Ive also considered Mr Ts complaint about his IFISA transfer and whilst I 
think Funding Circle ought to have made him aware that it had received his request I agree 
with the investigator that the impact was minimal. I appreciate Mr T says he didnt contact 
Funding Circle as hed received a notification from his new ISA provider but I wouldve still 
expected Mr T to have contacted Funding Circle much sooner if he had concerns regarding 
the progress of his IFISA transfer. I also think Funding Circle has made it clear in its investor 
terms that he was unable to transfer funds which were invested in loans and that hed need 
to sell these before transferring. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman