DRN-3458650
The complaint
Ms C complains PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) unfairly terminated her car finance 
agreement during her time of financial difficulty. 
What happened
In September 2019, Ms C entered into a 37 month personal contract purchase (PCP) 
agreement with PSA for a new car. The cars cash price was £12,751 and she was required 
to pay £241 with a final optional payment of £6,002. As part of the agreement, she also 
opted to take out insurance at a cost of £818 of which she needed to pay monthly 
instalments of £15.51 followed by a final payment of £385.
In late December 2019, Ms C started developing respiratory issues and progressively it got 
worse to the point she was unable to work in February 2020. She wasnt in receipt of any 
income meaning she didnt pay February and Marchs contractual payments. She called 
PSA and told them about her situation at the start of March 2020. As agreed, she called 
them later in March 2020 to provide an update. She said her health had remained the same, 
she was unable to return to work but she was hoping to do so soon and she still wasnt in 
receipt of any income. 
PSA issued a default notice in April 2020 as Ms C was two months in arrears. She called 
PSA to question it and confirmed her situation hadnt changed. Ms C said around this time, 
PSA agreed to a three month payment deferral. 
Ms C said she returned to work In July 2020 and during that same month, a recovery agent 
turned up at her address to retrieve the car. PSA said because no money was received 
following the default letter, they had terminated the agreement. The car was later sold and 
the sale proceeds of £8,500 were deducted from the balance owed. Thereafter, PSA said Ms 
C needed to pay the outstanding balance of £3,697. Ms C complained. 
PSA said no payment was received following the default notice so as per the agreement 
terms they were entitled to terminate it. However they accepted that when Ms C told them in 
April 2020 that she was suffering financial difficulty due to the pandemic, they shouldve 
referred her to their specialist team for support but this didnt happen. In recognition of this 
error, theyve agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by £100.
Unhappy with their response, Ms C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They believed PSA hadnt treated Ms C fairly and they 
hadnt followed the regulators guidance relating to those financially impacted by Covid-19. 
They concluded PSA should waive the outstanding balance, pay an additional £150 
compensation and remove the adverse information from Ms Cs credit file. PSA disagreed. In 
summary they said:
- The regulators Covid-19 guidance wasnt released until 24 April 2020 but Ms Cs 
account had been in arrears since February 2020 and the default notice was issued 
on 4 April 2020 therefore their normal process applied;
- When Ms C contacted them in April 2020 her situation hadnt changed and there was 
nothing to indicate the account could be brought up to date in a reasonable 
timeframe;
- There is no indication that short term assistance such as a payment deferral would 
have benefitted Ms C in the long term;
- Given Ms Cs financial difficulty, it wouldnt have been reasonable to delay recovering 
the car because it would depreciate further so they made the commercial decision to 
secure their asset. 
The original investigator left our service and it was allocated to a new investigator. Broadly 
speaking, they reached the same findings as the previous investigator however they 
believed the outstanding balance shouldnt be waived but instead an affordable payment 
plan set up for Ms C to pay the outstanding balance. They believed the additional £150 
compensation was reasonable. Ms C disagreed with this second opinion and commented 
she hadnt received any communication from PSA about the account arrears.
In March 2022, I issued my provisional decision partially upholding the complaint, I said:
Ive carefully considered the information and evidence provided by both parties. Having 
done so, I agree with both investigators that PSA didnt treat Ms C fairly during her time of 
financial difficulty and ill health. 
Ive reviewed PSAs contact notes. Ms C said she told them in February 2020 about her ill 
health but their notes start from 29 February 2020 so I cant determine whether that call took 
place or what was discussed. However their notes do reflect the call on 2 March 2020, I can 
see she told them about her ill health, she hadnt been able to work for the last three weeks 
and she wasnt in receipt of any income. So I think its fair to say it was clear Ms C was 
experiencing some financial difficulty. 
Where this happens the CONC guidance which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook says the financial business should treat the consumer with 
forbearance and due consideration. Theres not a defined list as to what steps should be 
taken but it may include measures such as payment holidays, temporarily freezing the 
interest, agreeing to accept reduced payments, etc. However there is no evidence PSA took 
any action upon hearing this information, instead they told Ms C to call them later in the 
month to update them. Given Ms C had already been off work for three weeks and there was 
no indication she would be returning to work in the immediate future, I believe PSA couldve 
done more and  offered support to her at that point. 
As agreed, Ms C called PSA on 27 March 2020 she explained her situation remained the 
same. I can see she commented that she wasnt able to pay her rent. Given it was clear she 
wasnt able to cover her essential bills, I think its fair to say her financial hardship was 
impacting her significantly. I consider this to be another opportunity where I wouldve 
expected PSA to have offered financial support but again there was no evidence of this. 
Instead she was told to update them on 27 April 2020.
However I note during this time, on 4 April 2020, PSA issued a default letter as the account 
was two months in arrears. Ive reviewed this letter and it says Ms C must bring the account 
up to date by 22 April 2020. It also outlines what would happen should this amount not be 
paid. I note Ms Cs comments that she didnt receive this letter or any other communication 
from PSA. However I can see its correctly addressed and when she called PSA on 14 April 
2020 she said she was calling in response to the default letter. For these reasons Im 
satisfied the default notice was received by Ms C.According to PSAs contact notes, during this call in April 2020 the advisor told Ms C that 
there was nothing they could do but I disagree, I wouldve expected them to have assisted 
her given her financial difficulty. The contact note also suggested the matter would be 
referred to another team to look into. PSA has accepted following this call Ms Cs account 
shouldve been referred to their specialist team who wouldve been able to provide support 
but this didnt happen. 
However Ms C said around this time she was told by PSA that she could have a three month 
payment deferral but I havent been provided with any evidence from either party to support 
the same. This doesnt mean it didnt happen but instead I dont have enough evidence to 
reasonably conclude it did. That said, I note at the time PSA were likely to have been 
approving payment deferrals due to the pandemic based on the guidance from the FCA so 
Ms Cs version of events is plausible. Having looked at the contact notes, following the call in 
April 2020 the next record of communication between PSA and Ms C is after the agreement 
is terminated and an agent is sent to recover the car. As already mentioned, following the 
call in April 2020 I wouldve expected PSA to have found out more about Ms Cs financial 
difficulties, her personal circumstances and offered support as appropriate so its 
disappointing this didnt happen. 
As my part of my review, I wanted to get an understanding of what PSA wouldve known had 
they spoken to Ms C in April 2020 about her financial circumstances. Ms C said she had 
been unwell with respiratory issues and chest infections from December 2019 and over time 
this had got worse. Her role was physically demanding and she got to the point where she 
couldnt work in February 2020. She said she was unable to return to work for around six 
months due to her physical illness and she also mentioned she was suffering from mental 
health related issues. She returned to work around July 2020 and reasonable adjustments 
were made by her employer to accommodate her needs. In August 2020, she started a new 
role with a new employer and at that point she was in the position to resume her contractual 
payments but the agreement had already been terminated. She said shes a single mother of 
two children with special needs and the car was vital for her family and for work. 
Ms C hasnt said her illness was Covid-19 related and I note her comments she started to 
get ill in December 2019 which is a few months before the nationwide lockdown. As Ive got 
insufficient to reasonably say Ms Cs illness was Covid related, I dont believe the FCAs 
guidance on those financially impacted by pandemic applies in this case. However as 
mentioned above, I wouldve expected PSA to have followed the CONC guidance in relation 
to her financial difficulty. But there is no evidence they did so nor did they attempt to get an 
understanding of her financial circumstances to assess whether this was a short term issue 
and she needed temporary support or a long term issue and she needed ongoing support 
which may include ending the agreement early. 
Its difficult to say what exactly PSA wouldve done had they offered financial support from 
March 2020 which is when Ms C initially made them aware of her financial difficulty. On 
balance, I believe its likely they wouldve put a temporary hold or breathing space on the 
account for 30 days meaning no payment would be collected. I say this because based on 
their conversations, they often advised her to call back in a few weeks later to provide an 
update. Bearing in mind Ms C had missed February and Marchs payments, her situation 
hadnt changed and there was no indication as to when she would be returning to work, I 
believe by her call in April 2020, it wouldve been fair to say this was a long term issue. So 
rather than letting the debt accumulate, I believe it wouldve been fair for PSA to have 
discussed options with Ms C about ending the agreement early. 
Ending the agreement early would usually be by either voluntary termination (VT) or 
voluntary surrender (VS). To VT the agreement, Ms C would have to return the car and pay half of the total amount payable plus any damage charges. In this case, the total amount 
payable for the car alone was £14,705 therefore half would be £7,352. According to the 
account statement up to April 2020, Ms C had paid £1,091 towards the agreement, meaning 
she would be liable to pay £6,261 if she was to VT the agreement. On the other hand, to VS 
the agreement, she would need to return the car and the sale proceeds would be deducted 
from the total amount payable and she would be liable for the outstanding balance. In this 
case, the car sold for £8,500. Although Ms C wouldnt have known in advance how much the 
car wouldve sold for but given it was relatively new (less than a year old), its value wouldve 
been higher than a car that was older or had travelled more miles. 
Overall, I believe PSA didnt treat Ms C fairly in her time of financial difficulty and rather than 
terminating the agreement, they shouldve been clear about Ms Cs options to end the 
agreement early. Had they done so, I believe Ms C wouldve chosen to VS the agreement as 
it was likely to have been the most cost effective option. 
To put things right, I believe PSA should treat the agreement as being voluntary surrendered 
rather than terminated and they should update their internal and external records including 
Ms Cs credit file to reflect the same. They should remove all adverse information from April 
2020 onwards from Ms Cs credit file. Theres an indication a recovery agent fee of £390 was 
applied to the account when the car was repossessed, if this is the case, this should be 
removed from the outstanding balance. Thereafter PSA should set up a suitable repayment 
plan for Ms C to pay the outstanding balance based on what she can afford. I would like to 
remind PSA in the event Ms C is still suffering financial difficulty, they should treat her with 
forbearance and due consideration.
Ive thought carefully about the impact this situation has had on Ms C. She turned to PSA for 
assistance during her time of financial difficulty and rather than supporting her, theyve 
added to her upset and worry. For this reason, I believe PSA should pay a further £200 in 
addition to the £100 already offered (£300 in total). 
Response to the provisional decision 
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. PSA didnt provide any 
comments. Ms C disagreed with the findings. In summary she said:
- She wouldnt have voluntarily surrendered the car as it was essential for her employment 
and her children;
- She wouldve resumed the contractual payments in July 2020 when she returned to work. 
However if PSA had made it clear she had to pay from April or they would take back the car, 
she wouldve made arrangements for this to be paid. She couldve sought financial help from 
her ex-partner;
- PSAs contact notes are wrong, she owns her property, she doesnt pay rent and her 
mortgage was being paid. She temporarily didnt receive child maintenance;
- This situation has negatively impacted her credit file, mortgage and ability to get credit;
- The car wasnt repossessed until July 2020, without prior warning and this caused distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Ms C for her comments which Ive carefully considered. As explained, I dont believe 
PSA has treated Ms C fairly. However I have to bear in mind due to Ms Cs financial 
difficulties,   a number of instalments werent paid as required by the terms of the agreement. 
So while I note she said she wouldve returned to meeting the contractual payments in July, I 
cant see that was discussed and made known to PSA.
By the time the car was repossessed in July, the last payment received was in January 
meaning there were at least five missed payments. I consider this to be a significant number 
of months so I can understand why PSA sought to take further action. However in my 
opinion, as it was clear Ms C was suffering financially, no payments had been received for a 
number of months and to avoid the debt accumulating, I find it wouldve been fairer for PSA 
to have clearly presented options to Ms C to end the agreement early rather than 
repossessing the car. Had they done so, I believe it wouldve been reasonable to offer VT or 
VS and for the reasons already explained, faced with these two options, I believe Ms C 
wouldve chosen to VS as it was the most cost effective option. 
I understand Ms C said her ex partner couldve supported her with this agreement and he 
couldve paid from April until she returned back to work. While this may have been the case, 
given this didnt happen in the months prior to the car being taken back, I cant say with any 
certainty this wouldve happened or enough to avoid PSA taking further action. Im also 
satisfied the default letter made it clear payment needed to be received and a deadline was 
set but there is no evidence any payment was made.  
I know Ms C said it was agreed she could have a three month deferral however as 
previously mentioned there is insufficient evidence this was discussed or agreed. PSAs 
contact notes show following the call on 14 April where the default letter was discussed, the 
next contact was in July when the car was repossessed. 
While a voluntary surrender may have some impact on an individuals credit file, it will be 
less than a repossession and/or a default. If this decision is accepted by Ms C, amongst a 
number of things Ive said once a suitable repayment plan has been set up to pay the 
outstanding balance, PSA should remove adverse information from the credit file from April 
onwards and this will include the default. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint.
To put things right, PSA Finance UK Limited must:
- Treat the agreement as being voluntarily surrendered in April 2020;
- To update internal and external records including Ms Cs credit file to reflect the 
agreement was voluntarily surrendered in April 2020;
- Remove the recovery agent fee from the outstanding balance (if applied)
- To set up a suitable payment plan for Ms C to pay the outstanding balance;
- Once a suitable payment plan has been agreed, remove adverse information from 
Ms Cs credit file from April 2020 onwards; 
- Pay an additional £200 compensation to Ms C for the trouble and upset caused 
(meaning £300 compensation in total). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman