DRN-4277058
The complaint
Mrs K complains that after giving notice to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) that 
she wanted to withdraw £14,064 to pay her builder it wouldnt release the funds without 
undertaking safeguarding checks such as contacting the police which she believes was 
unnecessary and heavy handed. Mrs K says this has resulted in losing a discount with her 
builder by not paying in cash and losing out on interest needlessly. She is also unhappy at 
the damage the police visit has caused to her reputation and the loss of trust from her 
builder. 
What happened
After extensive research Mrs K employed a builder to renovate a bungalow she inherited. 
The work started in January 2023. In February Mrs K called NatWest and informed it of the 
building work and requested around £12,000 to pay her builders. Mrs K answered all 
NatWests safeguarding questions satisfactorily and was given the money requested when 
she visited a branch of NatWest.
The same procedure was followed in March when Mrs K once again called up to request a 
withdrawal of around £14,000 to pay her builder. This time when Mrs K went into collect the 
cash on 22 March the NatWest staff member had concerns and refused to release the funds 
as they were thought she may be the victim of a scam or fraud. NatWest say this was 
because the building works were taking place at an address not registered on its system for 
Mrs K and besides a copy of a contract for work amounting to £270,000 Mrs K had little 
other proof of the building works and the safe member wasnt persuaded the amount Mrs K 
was quoted for the building work was correct.
Mrs K was asked to enter into a separate room and informed that safeguarding measures 
had been put in place and the police banking protocol invoked and that the police would be 
visiting her home to investigate the building work being completed. Mrs K says she had all 
the relevant documentation on her phone  including building plans but that the staff 
member wasnt interested in reviewing them.
NatWest say Mrs K was given the option to make the payment by bank transfer and that she 
was given the option to withdraw £300 in cash but that Mrs K declined. Mrs K said she 
wanted to pay in cash as the discount offered by the builder wasnt available if she paid by 
cash transfer.
The police visited Mrs Ks bungalow on 23 March and confirmed they were satisfied that the 
building works were priced appropriately but NatWest failed to advise Mrs K about this. Mrs 
K says she only found this out two days later when accessing her account on NatWests 
app. She says she had transferred money to her NatWest account from an account held with 
a third party to make this cash withdrawal and lost interest as a result.   
A manager from NatWest called Mrs K to discuss her concerns, apologised and paid Mrs K 
£50 compensation. 
Mrs K was dis-satisfied with this, she says if NatWest had reviewed the documentation on 
her phone it couldve avoided the police visit and the delay in the release of the funds. Mrs K 
says because she couldnt pay her builder in cash they had to pay for materials they needed 
from their own money which resulted in her having to pay extra. Mrs K wants to be 
compensated for this and the lost interest that resulted from her transferring money to her 
NatWest account when she couldnt withdraw it. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks concerns and while they sympathised with Mrs 
K and her frustration at the situation, they thought that NatWest had correctly followed the 
procedures it had in place for safeguarding its customers in circumstances such as Mrs Ks 
and hadnt treated Mrs K unfairly and as such didnt recommend any compensation for the 
interest Mrs K had lost out on. They agreed that NatWest did fail to inform Mrs K that she 
could access her funds after the police visit but thought the £50 paid to Mrs K for this was 
fair compensation and didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more.
Mrs K disagreed, she says as a result of NatWests actions her building work has been 
delayed and the trust has been lost with her builder and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mrs K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  our rules allow me to do that.
And the crux of Mrs Ks complaint is that the actions NatWest took when safeguarding her 
money  in particular, involving the police - were unreasonable and resulted in her having to 
pay more to her builder and the loss of her reputation and trust.  
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its policies or procedures  such as when or how it invokes safeguarding and 
fraud prevention measures when it has concerns about transactions a customer wishes to 
make. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or 
disciplinary role. 
My role is to look at problems that Mrs K has experienced and see if NatWest has done 
anything wrong. If it has, Id seek to put Mrs K back in the position she wouldve been in if 
the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So the question I have to ask here is was it reasonable for NatWest to invoke the 
safeguarding procedures in the circumstances of Mrs Ks case and did NatWest do anything 
wrong in not authorising the release of the funds in cash. And I dont think NatWest actions 
were unreasonable. As Ive already explained above its not for me to tell NatWest how to 
run its business, but I would expect NatWest to have policies and processes in place to 
protect it and its customers against fraud. 
And although I accept that NatWests staff members response to the second cash withdraw 
request was different to the first  and this was very frustrating to Mrs K as she believed she 
had done all she needed to do and didnt anticipate that there would be a problem. I think 
each transaction has to be assessed individually at the time the customer wishes to make it 
and I dont think it would be fair for NatWests staff to be restricted in using their discretion to question transactions they are concerned about on the basis that something similar was 
approved in the past. 
I appreciate the transaction from Mrs Ks perspective was completely legitimate, indeed she 
held all the knowledge and had been invested in the renovation/building works probably long 
before the work started. But from the staff members perspective all they knew was that Mrs 
K wanted to withdraw a large amount of cash for building works to a property it didnt have 
registered for her. I dont think it was unreasonable for them to want to satisfy themselves 
that the work was legitimate  and ensure that Mrs K wasnt going to be a victim of a scam 
or fraud. And placing a fraud restriction on the transaction Mrs K wished to make is allowed 
under the terms and conditions of her account in situations such as these.
I also dont think it unreasonable for them to invoke the police banking protocol as following 
questioning they still had concerns about the transaction and the documents Mrs K says she 
had as proof could relate to anything. I wouldnt expect NatWests staff to be an expert on 
such things and this is one of the key situations where banking staff would be expected to 
use the police banking protocol. 
And from what I understand Mrs K wasnt stopped from paying her builder  she was given 
the option to make the payment by transfer or wait until the police check was carried out 
which from what I understand was done within two days and the restrictions lifted from her 
account. I appreciate Mrs K wanted to pay in cash  and this isnt uncommon when it comes 
to things like building works. But to facilitate this type of transaction NatWest needed more 
time to ensure it was following the correct procedures put down to safeguard its customers. I 
dont think waiting for two days is an unreasonable amount of time to allow NatWest to do 
this. 
Mrs K says she needlessly transferred funds from another account so she could pay her 
builder in cash and as a result has lost out on interest. But my understanding was that the 
funds she used for paying the builder were always going to come from this account held with 
a third party  so she was always going to withdraw the money from here and lose interest 
regardless if she paid by cash, or bank transfer. So I dont think Mrs K has suffered any 
financial loss here. And I dont think NatWest treated Mrs K unfairly or acted unreasonably 
when it wouldnt release the funds she requested in cash before carrying its safeguarding 
processes. 
But from what Ive seen I do think NatWest made an error when it failed to inform Mrs K 
immediately when it was satisfied of the legitimacy of the transaction she wished to make 
and lifted the restrictions on her account. She had already been inconvenienced and was 
very distressed about the matter.
I can see that NatWest has already apologised for this and compensated Mrs Ks £50. And 
overall, I think that is fair as I cant say the outcome wouldve have been any different if 
NatWest had informed Mrs Ks when her funds were available for release. As I understand 
by this point she had already paid her builder. So on that basis Im not going to award any 
further compensation or ask NatWest to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 Caroline Davies
Ombudsman