DRN-4090300
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes agents and representatives. Mr N and Mrs H have been 
represented but, for simplicity, Ill refer to Mr N as the lead policyholder only.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr N returned from holiday to find a nearby embankment had collapsed and, as a 
result, caused damage to the hardstanding and stone driveway. He thought heavy 
rainfall had washed away the embankment. He got in touch with RSA.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster and D, a chartered structural engineer. D said the 
failure of the embankment hadnt caused any damage to the home or impacted its 
structural stability. They thought the embankment was inherently unstable because of 
its composition and steepness. And the storm water was merely a contributory factor 
to the collapse, in part because of the design of the drainage system.
The loss adjuster declined the claim because there was no damage to the home. It 
also raised other points about the design of the drainage system and the adequacy of 
the embankment prior to the problem.
Mr N complained but RSA maintained the claim was declined for the same reasons. 
However, it noted a delay communicating the outcome with Mr N and paid £100 
compensation as a result.
Our investigator thought RSA had declined the claim fairly. Mr N disagreed. He said 
that prior to the collapse, the slope was gentle and it had stood the test of time. And 
when the home was built, none of the professionals involved were concerned about 
the composition of the embankment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused to the buildings in a number of specific ways, 
known as insured events. The word buildings is defined in the policy to include, 
amongst other things, the main home, drives and drains.
The relevant insured events in this case are storm, flood, subsidence or landslip, 
accidental damage, and accidental breakage of drains. Ill consider whether it was 
fair for RSA to decline to cover the claim under any of these sections of the policy by 
looking at each separately.
Subsidence or landslip
The policy covers damage to the buildings caused by subsidence or landslip. But it 
doesnt cover damage to drives or drains caused by subsidence or landslip unless 
the main home is damaged by the same cause at the same time.
Theres no evidence to suggest the main home has been damaged by subsidence or 
landslip. So even if the drive and/or drains were damaged in this way, the claim can 
be fairly declined under this section of the policy.
Flood
The policy covers damage to the buildings caused by flood. RSA says the way it has 
defined the word flood in the policy means the claim isnt cover under this insured 
event. I agree.
Within the definition, it says part of the body of water enters your home, where the 
word home means the main building itself  and doesnt include drives or drains.
Theres no evidence to suggest water has entered the main home. So even if the 
drive and/or drains were damaged by flood, the claim can be fairly declined under 
this section of the policy.
Mr N has questioned whether the drive should be considered a part of the home. Its 
not defined in the policy that way. And Im not persuaded a drive is integral to a 
home. Many homes dont have drives but are nonetheless able to be used as normal. 
Arguably drains are integral to a home. But theres separate cover for damage to the 
drains under the policy, which Ill consider below. So I dont think its unreasonable 
for RSA to effectively exclude drains under the flood section of the policy.
Accidental damage
The policy covers damage to the buildings caused by accidental damage. But under 
this section, it doesnt cover damage caused by any other insured event which is 
specifically excluded under that insured event.
Given what Ive said about the insured events above, even if there was accidental 
damage to the drive and/or drains, the claim can be fairly declined under this section 
of the policy.
Storm
The policy covers damage to the buildings caused by storm. It says a storm will 
involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage to homes 
within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall.
Mr N said the embankment was damaged by heavy rainfall. Thats not entirely in 
keeping with the policy description of storm noted in the bullet point above. But, in 
some cases, significant rainfall can amount to a storm. Mr N has provided evidence 
to show the area in which he lives experienced much higher than usual rainfall at the 
relevant time, suggesting there may have been storm level rainfall. But I dont think I 
need to make a finding on whether there was a storm or not. Ill explain why.D has been very clear in their opinion that the embankment failed primarily due to the 
way it was constructed  the composition of material within it and its over-steep 
slope. They say the water was a contributory factor  but only as a result of the 
drainage being positioned contrary to planning drawings.
Photos support Ds comments about the composition of the embankment  theres a 
wide variety of materials within it, some of which are clearly unsuitable. I note Mr N 
has questioned Ds opinion. He says the slope was much gentler prior to the 
problem, that it had stood for a long time without incident, and its nature wasnt 
questioned by professionals when Mr Ns home was built several years. These 
comments havent been supported by evidence at this time.
I bear in mind D is a highly experienced chartered structural engineer with significant 
credentials. And I havent seen any other professional opinion that might challenge 
what D has said. So I have no reason to doubt Ds professional opinion based on the 
information currently available to me.
Accidental breakage of drains and pipes
The policy covers accidental breakage of drains and pipes used to provide services 
to or from your home. This is essentially cover for damage to the drains only  not to 
the main home or the embankment.
The drainage pipes in the embankment have clearly broken and I understand at least 
some of them provide services from the home, taking surface water away from it. So, 
on the face of it, the policy covers the breakage of the drains.
However, as noted above, D says this drainage wasnt positioned in line with the 
planning drawings. They also say the drains didnt have statutory consent. In these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require RSA to pay for the 
broken drains based on the information currently available to me.
Overall
Having considered the evidence about the cause of the damage, the policy wording, 
and what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Im satisfied RSA fairly 
declined the claim based on the information available. That included taking expert 
advice from a suitably qualified and experience professional.
I understand Mr N has considered taking professional advice of his own. Hes entitled 
to do so and share it with RSA. If he does, I would expect it to consider whether that 
changes its position and let him know promptly.
Im satisfied there were only minor delays during the claim and the £100 compensation RSA 
has paid is a reasonable remedy to that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman