DRN-4016512
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the premiums Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) charged her over a number of years for home insurance policies.
Im aware Mr W complained on Miss Ws behalf and I will also refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Miss W took out a contents and buildings insurance policy with Lloyds in 2010 for £430.11. 
The policy renewed each year. It increased in cost until the 2016 renewal, when the 
premium reduced that year and at the next renewal. The premium then started to increase 
again. In 2020 and 2021, the renewal premium was £616.87.
Mr W contacted Lloyds because he thought it had been overcharging Miss W for a number 
of years. He said Miss W was vulnerable and wasnt able to engage in the renewals process. 
When Lloyds replied, it said it had charged the correct premiums. However, based on Miss 
Ws circumstances, it agreed to refund £887.27, which took into account the premiums paid, 
plus interest, and included £100 compensation.
When Mr W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Lloyds had 
fairly dealt with the complaint by refunding some of the premiums. Lloyds had also offered to 
send renewal letters to Mr Ws address if this would assist, which Mr W had declined.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr W doesnt think Lloyds treated Miss W fairly, including because she was vulnerable. He 
has said Lloyds used Miss Ws loyalty and lack of ability to shop around, such as by using 
price comparison websites, to increase the cost of premiums over several years. Businesses 
are able to determine what they charge, so long as they treat customers fairly. So, Ive 
looked at whether Lloyds treated Miss W differently to customers in similar circumstances.
When Miss W took out the policy in 2010, it cost £430.11. By 2015, the premium had 
increased to £877.41. The following year, the premium decreased to £725.11 and in 2017 it 
was £548.83. The premium then started to increase again and was £616.87 in 2020 and 
2021. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its fair to say that Miss Ws circumstances fall within what is 
sometimes referred to as inertia where, over a number of years, a consumer doesnt engage 
with the renewal process. I also think its fair to describe Miss W as vulnerable. As a service 
we expect a business to demonstrate that it hasnt taken advantage of a customers lack of 
engagement. Ive seen information on how Lloyds priced Miss Ws policy and, in some 
years, I dont think it has been able to demonstrate this. However, Lloyds has also provided 
this service with information on how it put this right when it responded to the complaint. The 
redress it provided when it responded to the complaint is in line with what I would have 
expected it to do.
Im aware that when Lloyds responded to the complaint, it told Mr W the premiums had been 
charged correctly. However, Lloyds then upheld the complaint and said it was refunding 
some of the premiums paid with interest, along with £100 compensation. I think Lloyds could 
have been clearer in its explanation of what it was upholding and why it was offering a 
refund of some of the premiums. But as I think Lloyds has already provided an appropriate 
premium refund and compensation, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. This 
remains my view even taking into account that Lloyds could have provided a better 
explanation about the premiums and why it was providing a refund.
Im mindful that Miss W was also vulnerable, which Lloyds accepted. I havent seen anything 
to indicate that Lloyds was aware of Miss Ws vulnerability before Mr W raised it. Lloyds told 
Mr W about its text phone facilities and also said it could change the postal address it sent 
renewals to, so they went to Mr W and that Mr W could also contact Lloyds to discuss future 
renewal premiums. I think what Lloyds offered was reasonable in the circumstances and 
took into account what Mr W described about Miss Ws vulnerability. 
Mr W was also concerned that other vulnerable customers might end up in a similar position 
to Miss W and that Lloyds could take advantage of their vulnerability. My role is to look at 
individual complaints. Im not able to look at other customers circumstances or to require 
Lloyds to review or change its business practices or policies. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything 
further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman