DRN-3403537
The complaint
Ms P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly stopped her accessing funds she held in her 
current account and closed her account. She wants compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused. 
What happened
Ms P let Barclays and our service know that she is a victim of domestic abuse. She believes 
Barclays should have released her funds and this would have helped her escape her 
situation. She says she was assaulted by her former partner and her vehicle was damaged 
in November 2021. I was very sorry to hear what Ms P says she went through, and I have 
borne in mind what she has said in reaching my final decision.
Ms P held a personal current account with Barclays. In late September 2021 she transferred 
a large sum of money to her Barclays account from an account she held with a third-party 
bank. Ms P is aware the third-party bank had concerns about the payment and they had 
contacted Barclays.
Barclays removed the sum of money in question and put it in a sundry account while they 
carried out a review. They restricted Ms Ps account and asked her for further information 
about other payments she received into her account in July and August that year.
Barclays decided to close Ms Ps account with immediate effect in early October 2021, but 
they held on to her funds which predominantly represented the large payment. 
Following a prompt by our investigator Barclays reviewed their position and agreed to 
release the funds to Ms P in January 2022. Ms P confirmed she received her funds. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ps complaint in part. They concluded Barclays were able to 
restrict Ms P accessing her funds so they could carry out a review. But Barclays took too 
long to complete their review. Ms Bs third-party bank told Barclays they had no further 
concerns about the payment in early December 2021, which was information Barclays failed 
to act on. To put things right Barclays needed to pay Ms P 8% simple interest on the funds 
they held from 10 December 2021 until the funds were released back to her.
Barclays agreed to our investigators recommendation, but Ms P did not. She wanted more 
compensation because of the risk she was put under by not being able to access her funds. 
She asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I wanted to know more about what had happened during the time Ms P couldnt access the 
funds, as well as what information might be available to support what she had said. And, I 
noted that Ms P was subject to an involuntary arrangement, so it was important to see 
whether her insolvency practitioner had an interest in potential redress I might award.
Our investigator tried several times to get in touch with Ms P over the phone and by email, 
but Ms P didnt respond. They also tried to contact her IVA practitioner by email, but we 
didnt receive a reply. Ms P has been provided enough time to send me further information, 
so I have proceeded to make a final decision based on the information I  have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint, but I am not awarding her any more compensation 
than what our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Barclays have important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, verify sources 
of income, and to detect and help prevent financial crime. Its common industry practice for 
firms to restrict access to funds to conduct a review in line with those obligations - doing so 
helps mitigate against potential financial or other harm which might occur if there wasnt a 
restriction.
Barclays stopped Ms P accessing the payment and I understand their initial concern. The 
payment was unusually large compared to previous account activity, and they were 
contacted by her other bank about it. Ms P was in a very difficult situation at the time, but this 
didnt override Barclays responsibility to comply with its legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
So, I find their decision to block her account was fair.
Barclays were entitled to request information to verify the origin of other payments Ms P had 
made into her account. This was again in line with their legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
Ms P responded to Barclays requests. But given the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I understand why Barclays wanted to hear back from the third-party bank before 
deciding whether to release the funds. I think it was fair for them to do so. I was very sorry to 
hear about Ms Ps former partner assaulting her and damaging her vehicle, but I am not 
persuaded Barclays should have released the funds to her before these events took place.
Barclays should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, the 
longer a customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the harm they may suffer, 
particularly someone who was in Ms Ps position. The evidence shows Barclays failed to 
review the communication they received from the third-party bank that it had no further 
concerns in a reasonable time. And, based on when Barclays received that communication, I 
find they ought to have released the funds to Ms P on 10 December 2021.
I wanted to get further information from Ms P to understand what losses might have been 
prevented had Barclays released her funds when they should have. But she has not 
provided any further information, so I have been unable to draw reasonable conclusions 
about what further distress and problems could have been avoided. In light of this, I find 8% 
simple interest per annum calculated on the funds Barclays held from 10 December 2021 
until they were released to Ms P is fair compensation.
I still dont know if Ms Ps insolvency practitioner has an interest in this settlement. But any 
sum of money Ms P receives could affect the terms of her Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA)  so, should Ms P accept this final decision, its really important she lets her insolvency 
practitioner know about the payment.
Based on the information I have seen; I find Barclays were able to close Ms Ps account 
immediately under the accounts terms and conditions.Putting things right
Subject to Ms P accepting my decision, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay her 8% simple 
interest per annum on the sum of money they held from 10 December 2021 until the date 
they released the money back to her.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms P 
compensation according to the direction I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman