DRN-2745097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1993 with a mortgage. 
National Westminster has provided evidence to show that this mortgage was extended in 
2003 when Mr and Mrs S bought a new property. The policy continued to apply to the 2003 
mortgage.
A further property was purchased in 2005 and the policy continued to apply until that 
mortgage was repaid in 2010. Throughout the life of the policy it provided Mr S with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
At the outset I can see there has been some confusion about the mortgage accounts that the 
policy applied to. But from what Ive seen and been told, Im satisfied the original policy was 
sold in 1993, and applied to all of the subsequent mortgages that were arranged, until 
redemption in 2010.
Mr S considers National Westminsters product literature meant the bank gave a 
recommendation to take the PPI. So he says the bank shouldve made better enquiries to 
make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
But from the evidence Ive seen I dont think National Westminster did recommend the policy 
to Mr S. I say this because even though the literature uses the word recommend, the leaflet 
provided general information to customers, rather than advice that was specifically tailored to 
Mr S. 
As Im not persuaded National Westminster provided advice to buy the PPI, the key question 
I need to consider is: 
- Did National Westminster give Mr and Mrs S information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed 
choice about the insurance they were buying? 
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs S are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI was presented as part of the overall mortgage application 
process, and they were under the impression they should take it to minimise the risk of 
losing their new home. They dont consider National Westminster gave them a proper choice 
about buying it.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and 
National Westminster when the policy was originally sold. Im also mindful that these events 
took place over twenty five years ago. 
Ive noted Mr Ss comments about the product literature. But Mr and Mrs S had to complete 
a separate section of the mortgage application form to apply for the PPI. And there is nothing 
to suggest that they were obliged to do so. So I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve realised they 
had a choice.
I can also see that in 2003 Mr and Mrs S were aware of the existing PPI cover and it seems 
they wanted to continue with it. So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs S have 
told me, I havent been able to safely conclude that National Westminster didnt make them 
aware the PPI was optional.
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt need the policy because of the employer sick pay and 
redundancy pay Mr S was entitled to. But as I've already said, I'm not persuaded National 
Westminster gave any advice to Mr and Mrs S about the PPI, so it didnt have to check 
whether it was suitable for them. 
But even if the bank had given advice, from what Ive seen I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S. It wouldve paid out in addition to Mr S's employer benefits and 
would mean Mr and Mrs S couldve used those benefits to pay for other expenses. 
So I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing 
arrangements. 
I can't be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S before they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the policy knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I've seen nothing to suggest 
that the benefit wasn't enough to cover Mr and Mrs S's monthly mortgage repayments. So I 
think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information 
about the policy's cost had been provided. 
Mr S satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions).
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had been better informed.
National Westminster accepts that it continued to take the policy premiums after Mr and Mrs 
Ss mortgage was repaid in 2010. Its offered to refund the excess premiums which I 
consider is fair. I leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide whether they want to accept the banks 
offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman