DRN-2935219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined 
their accidental damage claim under their home insurance policy. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr U. 
What happened
Mr U took out a building and contents home insurance policy with Lloyds in mid-October 
2019. The policy provided cover for accidental damage. 
Mr U submitted a claim to Lloyds in mid-September 2020 when he tried to close the patio 
door at the rear of his property and had to use force to do so. The beading around the glass 
then started to come away and the door lock was no longer aligning with the catch, so 
wouldnt shut properly. 
Mr U contacted Lloyds and submitted a claim for accidental damage. It arranged for loss 
adjusters to visit Mr Us home. The loss adjusters concluded that there was no evidence of 
damage caused by a one-off insured event. They said the tracks on the door had failed in 
the course of normal operation due to age deterioration. So, Lloyds declined the claim on the 
basis that the damage was due to wear and tear that had happened gradually over time. 
Mr U was unhappy with Lloyds decision and made a complaint. He said being unable to 
close the door properly was a health and safety issue. Lloyds responded and reiterated that 
the loss adjusters had said the damage to the patio door is due to general wear and tear and 
this is not covered under Mr Us policy.  
Mr U then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
It might help to explain that Lloyds is not responsible for carrying out general repairs on 
Mr Us home. That is not what his home insurance covers. It is Mr Us responsibility to 
maintain his home in a good state of repair. 
Mr U has accidental damage cover under his policy. And, generally speaking, under this 
cover Lloyds will likely only have to pay a claim if a one-off accident of some kind happens 
that results in damage to some part of Mr Us home. If there is no one-off accident, and 
Lloyds can show that the problems Mr U is having are because general repairs need to be 
carried out, then it will not need to pay the claim. And Im satisfied that Lloyds make it clear 
in the policy terms that this is the case, that it will not pay for damage caused by wear and 
tear and lack of maintenance. So Lloyds are allowed to decline the claim if it can be shown 
that the damage is the result of wear and tear that occurred gradually over time. 
So Ive looked at whether Lloyds has done enough to show it can fairly rely on the wear and 
tear exclusion to decline the claim. 
Lloyds loss adjusters visited and inspected the damage and decided the patio door was no 
longer operating properly because of wear and tear issues. Lloyds are allowed to rely on the 
expert opinion of their loss adjusters. Ive seen the report provided by them, as well as follow 
up correspondence and some photographs. In summary, the loss adjusters said:
The track on the door is worn and the tracking cover plate has detached from the 
aluminium frame, which has caused the door to jam onto the remaining track. 
The wheels are worn and flat spotted, so the door is difficult to move.
The timber subframe has also begun to rot around the sill and in the sill corners. 
Mr U also arranged to have a company who provide replacement windows and doors inspect 
the patio door. The report they provided says:   
The wheels are not running in alignment with the bottom track
This can become an issue if the door is having to be closed with some force, as it 
can lead to bouncing of the wheels out of the tracks. 
The track at the lock end is buckled, which would make it difficult to close the doors 
with normal force. 
What they are both saying is that the condition of the door, and in particular the problems 
with the track at the bottom of the door, are causing problems such that the door is difficult to 
move and is having to be closed with some force. Neither report suggests that there was a 
one-off accident on the day in question that led to the door being damaged. Both reports 
suggest the difficulties with closing the door are caused by pre-existing problems with the 
door. 
Lloyds loss adjusters also mention that the timber subframe around the door has begun to 
rot. Having seen the photographs provided, I agree that this appears to be the case. The 
photographs suggest an older patio door with a deteriorating wooden surround. The loss 
adjusters also provided a photograph showing aluminium shavings that they say show parts 
of the door have been grating together for some time, indicating longer term problems with 
the use of the door. 
I can also see that when Mr U first contacted Lloyds to make a claim, he mentioned that the 
beading around the glass had come away when his wife had to use force in order to try to 
get the door to close. And, again, having seen the photographs of this I can see that the 
beading appears to be disintegrating. This disintegration wouldnt happen as a result of a 
one-off incident  the disintegration would happen gradually over a period of time. And so 
the problems with the beading appear to be a wear and tear issue. 
I think its also important to note that during the phone call with Lloyds, Mrs U told the claim 
handler that in order to get the door to close, she had to use more force than she usually 
would. She said if she didnt use force, the door wouldnt have closed. Im satisfied that this 
indicates an underlying problem with the door  it wasnt that excessive force caused the 
damage to the door, it was that excessive force had to be used as there were already 
problems with the door, and Mrs U was attempting to secure it.  What the above means is that Im satisfied that there were pre-existing problems with the 
door that caused the difficulties with closing it. And so there was no one-off event that 
caused damage to the door. So Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly when it declined the claim 
because the damage was caused by wear and tear and this is not covered under Mr Us 
policy. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr U and I appreciate that his circumstances mean its 
important that the door gets replaced. But I could only ask Lloyds to take further action if I 
thought it had made an error in how it dealt with the claim, but Im satisfied it didnt.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman