DRN-1827199
The complaint
Ms B complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) plcs (BOI) refusal of her request for a refund.
Ms B is represented in her complaint by her husband who I will call Mr W. But to make this 
decision easier to read and understand, Ill refer to any submissions made by Mr W on Ms 
Bs behalf as being made by Ms B.
What happened
In summary the following is Ms Bs position about this complaint. Ms B and Mr W went on 
holiday overseas. Mr W hired a campervan for the holiday so that they could tour in it. 
However, she tells us that there were many problems with the service they received from the 
campervan hire company (who I will call K) and with the campervan itself. Things got so 
bad with the campervan that they asked for a replacement which they got (after some to and 
fro, which was sometimes unpleasant due to the attitude of K). Unfortunately, the second 
campervan was not an improvement. As a result, Ms B and Mr Ws holiday was ruined, 
amongst other things, they had to substantially change the itinerary for their holiday, and 
because the quality of the campervan was so poor, they were often uncomfortable and felt 
unsafe. In short, because of all of this they did not have the enjoyable extended holiday that 
they were entitled to expect.
Ms B has a credit card account with BOI. Ms Bs husband is a secondary card holder on that 
account. (But that does not make him an account holder with BOI, this is a key point that I 
will come back to later). As I have already mentioned Mr W booked the campervan and he 
also he paid for the campervan using his secondary card on Ms Bs account. It was Mr W 
who also did all the driving.
Ms B complained to K during and after the holiday but despite her persistence, her detailed 
list of issues and in some cases receipts, she got nowhere. Therefore, she turned to BOI for 
help and a refund instead. 
However, BOI did not get Ms Bs money back or refund it. Rather, BOI told Ms B it was not 
able to either help her further or give her a refund, at least it said this at first. BOI explained 
that it had two potential routes to go down. It could raise a chargeback for her, or it could 
check to see what rights she had against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75).
Chargeback is a process which allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there is a problem with goods or services that they have paid for. There is no automatic right 
to a chargeback. And even if a chargeback claim is made there is no guarantee that it will 
result in a refund. Chargebacks have to follow the chargeback rules which are not set by 
BOI. BOI came to the conclusion that there was no point in doing a chargeback as it would 
fail under the relevant rules.
Next BOI looked at the provisions of Section 75. Section 75 gives the account holder who 
has a misrepresentation, or a breach of contract claim against the supplier of goods or 
services paid for using the card the right to pursue a like claim against the lender. But this 
right comes into play only if certain conditions are met. One of these conditions is that there 
must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. But BOI concluded there was 
no such relationship here because the account holder, that is the debtor (to use the 
language of Section 75), is Ms B, but the contract with K, who is the supplier for these 
purposes, was made with Mr W. For these reasons BOI decided it had no responsibility for 
what had gone wrong. 
Dissatisfied Ms B came to our service
Once Ms Bs complaint was with us BOI thought again about Ms Bs complaint and, as a 
goodwill gesture, that is without accepting any liability, BOI offered Ms B £500. This goodwill 
gesture was not accepted.
One of our investigators looked at Ms Bs complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend 
upholding Ms Bs complaint. She pointed out what was needed was for Ms B to be the 
debtor, BOI to be the creditor and K to be the supplier. However, when she looked at the 
contract with K she didnt agree this condition had been met. In other words, our investigator 
wasnt satisfied that there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in this complaint. 
She said this because she looked at the nature of the contract between Mr W and K. This 
particular type of contract is personal in nature, as a result, she did not think it was possible 
to say that the contract had been made between anyone other than Mr W and K. That meant 
in turn that the debtor, who must be the account holder in relation to the credit card, here 
thats Ms B, had no contract with K. It followed our investigator had no proper basis for 
saying BOI had to take responsibility for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract on 
the part of K in relation to a contract made solely with Mr W.
BOI accepted our investigators recommendation, Ms B did not. In summary, she repeated 
her earlier stance. She also underlined what she saw as the joint nature of the contract with 
K. Moreover, she added the terms and conditions of her account with BOI did not make it 
clear that a secondary card holder, is not covered by the provisions of Section 75 because 
they are not the account holder. She thought this was a serious omission and consequently 
BOI had not acted fairly. She pointed out this omission had potential implications for all 
account holders and secondary card holders and not just for her and Mr W. 
Ms B asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs sense of disappointment with the campervan jumps off the page. To make it worse, it 
appears that she found dealing with K a far from pleasant experience. She has provided 
several detailed accounts of what went wrong. Further, she wrote one of these accounts 
when she was still on holiday. Given that she was on holiday yet took the time to do this, 
shows, I think, just how strongly she felt and feels about what went wrong from her point of 
view. That said, whilst I can understand her perspective, I have no proper basis to tell BOI it 
must give her a refund. I dont say this to disappoint her still further, far from it. I explain 
below why Ive come to this conclusion.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms B is relying on the rights she suggests she has under Section 75. I think its important to 
set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Ms Bs complaint, I have to take account of relevant 
law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. 
But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might 
reach if Ms B pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an 
informal alternative to the courts.
Section 75 only operates if specific conditions are in place. I think the parties are well aware 
by now that there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. But there 
isnt one. here I say this because, in this complaint for the complaint to succeed the account 
holder has to be the debtor. But Mr W is not the account holder only Ms B is. I realise he is a 
secondary card holder, but that is not the same as being the account holder. 
Moreover, the debtor also has to be the one who contracted with the supplier, but on the 
facts, it was Mr W not Ms B who contracted with K. It makes no difference to how I construe 
the contract that Ms B benefitted from the contract, a person can benefit from a contract 
without being a party to it. Neither does the fact that it was a purchase that Mr W and Ms B 
jointly decided upon change matters - their joint decision between themselves, to purchase 
is not reflected in how the contract was set up. The personal nature of the contract was clear 
the named driver was entering into the contractual relationship with K, not the passenger 
(here Ms B). Only he had rights and responsibilities under the contract and those rights and 
responsibilities were personal to him.
I do not doubt that had Ms B and Mr W been aware of the ins and outs of Section 75 before 
they contracted with K theyd have gone about things differently, to get the protection of 
Section 75. I can also understand why Ms B expresses dissatisfaction with BOI for not 
spelling all this out in the terms and conditions of the credit card account contract she has 
with it. But BOI is not obliged to go into this issue when contracting with its credit card 
customers. That means Ive got no proper basis for saying that by remaining silent on this 
point until Ms B wanted to rely on Section 75 BOI acted unjustly. Although I do realise that 
Ms B is unlikely to see it in this way. I only have the power to look at Ms Bs individual 
complaint. She may be correct to suggest this has wider implications than her individual 
account but that is not something that I can look at. This service is not the regulator for BOI 
and only the regulator could take a wider look at this issue.
I have not gone into the chargeback issue in any great detail beyond mentioning it in the 
background to this complaint because that point is not being disputed as far as I am aware. 
BOI has offered Ms B £500. I can understand why she might not think this even touches the 
sides given the amount that was paid for the campervan, and how she describes how her 
much anticipated holiday (she booked a year in advance) turned out due to the campervan 
and Ks behaviour. That said, I am making no finding about misrepresentation or breach of 
contract because I cannot given that I dont think Section 75 covers her complaint. That also 
being said, if on reflection, Ms B wants to accept this goodwill gesture, then she would need 
to contact BOI directly to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Lucie Russell
Ombudsman