DRN-2107384
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Ms S took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 2001 during a meeting, at the same time 
as taking out a mortgage. The initial premiums for the MPPI were about £30 a month. And, 
following a successful claim, initially it would have paid out almost £500 a month, had 
Ms S been off work because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
The policy also covered other risks, but this decision only relates to the MPPI element.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Ms S complaint should be upheld. As Ms S
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, but Ive decided not to uphold her
complaint. I explain why below.
Ms S says that she found the whole process of taking out the mortgage and MPPI 
overwhelming. She was on her own at the meeting and this was her first mortgage. And she 
told us that she wasnt sent any documents to read through before the meeting. Ms S also 
says that the adviser was persistent, and she felt pressurised to take out the policy. 
I can understand why a meeting to take on a large financial commitment could have felt very 
daunting to Ms S. Especially if it was the first time she had done something like this, and she 
wasnt accompanied by anyone. But, to make a finding that Halifax representative at the 
meeting put unfair pressure on Ms S, I would need more persuasive evidence than Ive been 
given. Halifax wasnt required to provide any paperwork before the meeting. And if Ms S 
wasnt sure what she wanted to do, she could have taken away the papers, thought about it, 
and returned at a later date to complete the mortgage and MPPI, if thats what she wanted to 
do. I dont find that the representative encouraging Ms S to take out the policy because she 
was on her own and because it would stop her having to worry about things amounts to 
undue pressure being put on her. And, understandably, because of the time that has passed 
since the sale, Ms S hasnt given us any other details of what the representative did or said 
which I find indicates such pressure.
Further, Ive seen Ms S signed mortgage application form. Although this refers to MPPI, this 
is to explain the importance and effect of the information she might give in connection with 
an application for it. The form also says that Halifax can decline any application for MPPI. 
There is no suggestion on the form that if the MPPI application is declined, the mortgage 
application would be affected. So Im satisfied that the mortgage application form isnt 
drafted in a way to make Ms S think she had to take out the insurance.
Halifax recommended to Ms S that she take out the policy. This means that it had to take
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for her. Halifax also had to give Ms S clear,
fair and not-misleading information so that she could make an informed decision whether 
she wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of her circumstances at the time.
I find that the policy was suitable for Ms S. I say this because knowing what I do about her
circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Ms S was eligible for the MPPI;
Ms S wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations - such as 
those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the 
market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to make 
me think that Ms S couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had she later thought that 
she couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, she could have cancelled it at any 
time without further cost;
Ms S says she cant remember whether she was entitled to sick pay from her employer. 
Knowing the type of employment she had, I think its most likely that she was. But she 
has told us that she had no savings or other insurance to help her make her monthly 
mortgage payments if she had been off work. Following a successful claim however, the 
MPPI would have paid out in addition to her sick pay and any redundancy to which she 
was entitled. Leaving those available to meet her other expenses while she was unable 
to work. These insurance payments would have been made for up 24 months, which is a 
much longer period than I would have expected her sick pay to cover. So, I find that the 
policy could have been of use to her. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Ms S been unable to make her mortgage 
repayments, which were secured on her home;
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Ms S everything that it ought about the policy during the
sales meeting. Including that she would have had to continue paying the premiums during 
any period of claim, making the benefit less valuable than she may have thought. But as Ive 
concluded above that it was suitable for her, I think that she would still have taken it had 
Halifax given her clearer information. This means that Ms S hasnt lost out because of 
anything that may have been wrong with Halifax sales process. So theres nothing I require 
Halifax to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ros BarnettOmbudsman