DRN-3219205
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt offer her a lower interest rate on her
mortgage. As a result, she feels shes paid the standard variable rate (SVR) unfairly and so
has overpaid.
What happened
Miss M has a mortgage with Santander which she took out in 2007. The mortgage was taken
out on a fixed interest rate of 5.19% until 3 June 2009. After that date, the mortgage reverted
to Santanders standard variable rate (SVR). The mortgage remained on the SVR until
Miss M successfully applied for a new interest rate product in April 2020.
Santander had been reporting Miss Ms mortgage as being in arrears due to ground rent
payments theyd paid on her behalf, and added to the mortgage. In May 2016 Santander
consolidated those outstanding payments onto the mortgage balance as a result of a
remediation programme they had carried out.
In September 2016 Miss M called Santander to ask whether she could take out a new
interest rate on the mortgage. Santander said that as the mortgage account had been in
arrears in the last 12 months, Miss M wasnt eligible for a new interest rate product. Miss M
called again in April 2017 and was told the same thing. In April 2020 Miss M successfully
applied for a new interest rate product.
Miss M complained to Santander. She was unhappy the mortgage had been on the SVR
since 2009. She said that despite calling and asking for better interest rates she had never
been offered one.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said they couldnt find any record of telephone
conversations taking place. They also said they were not obliged to advise customers that
they could access a new rate. They said the annual statements sent to Miss M said what
interest rate the account was on.
Miss M brought her complaint to our service, but Santander didnt give us consent to
consider it as they said it had been brought outside of the time limits. I issued a decision
which explained that we could only consider Miss Ms complaint about what had happened
since 14 April 2014, as her complaint about the earlier period had been made outside of the
time limits our service must apply.
Our investigator considered the merits of the part of Miss Ms complaint that had been
brought in time. Having done so, he upheld the complaint. He said that Miss M had asked
Santander about the availability of interest rate products in September 2016. He said that
whilst he acknowledged Santanders eligibility criteria for interest rates at the time, he didnt
think it was fair of them to apply their policy in Miss Ms particular circumstances.
He recommended that Santander should re-work the account as if the lowest fee-free 
fiveyearfixed rate had been applied to the mortgage from September 2016 to the date her 
new rate in 2020 was applied to the mortgage. He also recommended that Santander pay 
Miss M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander disagreed with the investigators outcome. They said the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) clarified their position in relation to property related charges, confirming that
these should not be classified as arrears. Following that clarification, Santander undertook
an exercise to review all affected accounts and made the decision to capitalise the property
related charges onto the mortgage balance. They also amended the borrowers credit files,
and refunded any charges linked to those arrears as a goodwill gesture. Santander
disagreed they made an error.
Santander also questioned why Miss M hadnt phoned sooner after the mortgage account
had been arrears free for more than 12 months. They said that if they were to re-work
Miss Ms mortgage account by backdating a five year rate from 2016, Miss M wouldnt have
been able to take the new product that she did in April 2020 without incurring an Early
Repayment Charge.
Our investigator considered what Santander had said, but wasnt persuaded to change his
opinion. So the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M complains that Santander did not offer her an interest rate product earlier than they
eventually did in 2020. As set out in my previous decision, I will only be considering whether
Santander should have offered Miss M a lower interest rate on her mortgage from 14 April
2014 onwards.
As a starting point, Miss Ms mortgage contract set out that once the initial fixed rate expired,
Santanders SVR would be the interest rate applied to the mortgage account. So there was
nothing in the contract which meant Santander had to offer Miss M lower interest rate
products for the remainder of the mortgage term. Although in practice, most borrowers do
apply for new rates once their initial rate expires, either with their existing lender, or a
different lender, as they often tend to be cheaper.
In 2014 there were no regulatory requirements for lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers
about new interest rates they may be eligible for. Nor was it common practice across the
industry either. Although I have noted that Santander did send information with their annual
statements which explained what borrowers needed to do if they wanted a new interest rate.
If Miss M wanted to take out a lower rate on her mortgage, she needed to have contacted
Santander and asked about that.
Ive reviewed the contact history of the account, and I can see that there werent any
conversations between Miss M and Santander about the interest rate until September 2016.
During that call, Miss M specifically asked about interest rate products that might be
available to her. The adviser told her she wasnt eligible for a new rate as her mortgage
account had been in arrears until May 2016.
Santander have told our service that at the time Miss M asked about interest rates in 2016,
in order to be eligible for a new rate the mortgage account needed to have been arrears-free
for 12 months. In principle its not unreasonable for lenders to have their own eligibilitycriteria for their interest rate products. So what I must decide, is whether it was fair and
reasonable for Santander to apply that criteria to Miss Ms mortgage considering her
individual circumstances at the time.
Santander have pointed our service to a consultation paper issued by the FCA in 2016. In
that paper the FCA set out their definition of a payment shortfall. In that definition its clear
that the FCA did not intend for property related charges, such as service charges or ground
rent, to be classed by lenders as a payment shortfall. Santander said that following that
paper, they chose to remediate customers whose mortgages were being reported as in
arrears as a result of property related charges by capitalising the arrears balances. Thats
why Miss Ms arrears balance was capitalised in May 2016.
The account notes from 2014 and 2015 indicate that the only arrears present on Miss Ms
account, were a result of the ground rent payments Santander had added to the account.
And in fact, Miss M was paying more than the contractual monthly payment each month in
order to reduce that balance resulting from the charges. So there werent any arrears
present on the account as a result of actual payment shortfalls where Miss M had paid less
than shed contractually agreed to pay towards the mortgage balance.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded it was fair and reasonable for Santander to apply their
standard eligibility criteria to Miss Ms query about interest rates in September 2016.
Technically her mortgage had been classified as being in arrears within the last 12 months.
But Santander had since chosen not to treat that balance as arrears following clarification
from the FCA about what constitutes a payment shortfall, and continued to report Miss Ms
mortgage account as up to date. As a result, I dont think it was reasonable for Santander to
then prevent Miss M from accessing an interest rate product on the basis of those arrears.
So given the particular circumstances here, I dont think it was reasonable for Santander to
decline Miss Ms request for a new rate on that basis. Had Santander set that part of the
eligibility criteria aside, Im persuaded that Miss M would have applied for a new rate, and
she would have been eligible for one. Santander havent told our service about anything else
that would have meant Miss Ms request would have been declined. As a result, I think
Miss M has suffered unfair treatment as a result of Santanders actions.
Putting things right
If Santander had acted fairly, Miss Ms mortgage would have been on an interest rate
product from September 2016 rather than the SVR. As a result, Santander should re-work
Miss Ms mortgage account as if shed taken an interest rate that would have been available
to her at that time. In 2020, Miss M took a two year fixed rate. So I think its likely she would
have done the same in 2016. Of course, that rate would have expired in 2018 and so
Santander should retrospectively apply their lowest two year fixed rate from that point as
well.
I appreciate that would result in the fixed rate running into Miss Ms current product period.
But I dont think it would be reasonable for Santander to pass on any additional costs to
Miss M that result from that. In 2020 Miss M took out a new rate in good faith to mitigate her
losses. So I think the re-working of the account should run up to the date the new rate in
2020 was applied.
Once Santander have re-worked the mortgage balance, they should give Miss M the choice
of either:
Applying the overpayments, including any additional compounded interest, to the
outstanding mortgage balance to reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receiving the overpayments as a cash refund to her now, with the addition of 8%simple interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date
of settlement.
I also consider that Miss M has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the
higher payments shes had to make whilst being on the SVR. Shes explained how much of
a difference the latest interest rate product has made to her life and her ability to get on top
of her finances. And so I think Santander should pay Miss M £500 to compensate for the
distress and inconvenience their mistake has caused. That payment should be made directly
to Miss M.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M
how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted my provisional decision.
Miss M said that she thought the compensation should go back to 2014, as the arrears that 
were on her account from that period werent actually arrears at all.
She disputes that no calls were made to Santander before September 2016, as she said she 
wouldnt have just happily paid the high interest rate knowing she could move to a lower one.
She said whilst Santander decided to redress borrowers in 2016, this was not her fault and 
the redress should have been backdated. She said all of this has impacted her credit file and 
all of her finances. She thinks she should be put back in the position she should have been 
in as far back as possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ms strength of feeling about whats happened. But I firstly want to clarify 
that our service has not considered a complaint about the way Santander addressed Miss 
Ms mortgage arrears, and the remediation exercise they did. The complaint weve 
considered is about whether Santander should have offered Miss M an interest rate product 
sooner than they did. So I wont comment any further on Miss Ms points about the 
remediation, and the impact to her credit file.
Miss M says she did ask Santander about lower interest rates before September 2016, and 
so she thinks the redress should go back to the earliest point that we can consider this 
complaint from  in 2014. Ive already explained that I havent seen any evidence of any 
earlier calls about the interest rate taking place. So in the absence of evidence I have to 
decide what is most likely to have happened based on the balance of probabilities. 
Miss M had previously told this service she called Santander several times between 2009 
and 2012. Ive also seen detailed call notes on the account for the calls that there are 
evidence of. So I think its likely that similar notes would have been left if earlier calls had 
been made. I appreciate Miss M has been through a very difficult time over the years, and 
shes been doing all she can in recent years to get all of her finances back on track. But on 
balance, considering everything provided by both sides, Im not persuaded Miss M did ask 
about new interest rate products between 2014 and September 2016. And Santander werent required to pro-actively contact Miss M to discuss interest rate products unless shed 
asked.
As a result, Im still satisfied that the redress should be calculated back to September 2016, 
when there is evidence of Miss M asking Santander about new interest rate products.
Putting things right
To put things right Santander should re-work Miss Ms mortgage account in the following 
way:
Apply the lowest two year fixed interest rate Miss M would have been eligible for in 
September 2016 from that date;
Apply the lowest two year fixed interest rate Miss M would have been eligible for 
once the above rate would have expired in 2018.
Santander should not apply any Early Repayment Charges to the mortgage as a result of 
this re-structure if there is an overlap in any of the interest rate products.
Once Santander have re-worked the mortgage balance, they should give Miss M the choice
of either:
Applying the overpayments, including any additional compounded interest, to the
outstanding mortgage balance to reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receiving the overpayments as a cash refund to her now, with the addition of 8%
simple interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date
of settlement.
Santander should also pay Miss M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. That 
should be paid directly to Miss M.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M
how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman