DRN-3224982
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer four personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds were invested 
in Dolphin Capital, a German property development scheme that has since failed. He says 
the advice to transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment was too high risk for 
him. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.  
What happened
In 2015, Mr S transferred the benefits he had in four personal pensions to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). The funds were then 
invested in Dolphin Capital. He now believes he was advised to transfer by Wellington Court.
Mr S complained to Wellington Court in 2019. He said, in brief, that Wellington Courts 
advice had been negligent because the Dolphin Capital investment was too high risk for him. 
The investment now looks to have little value. Mr S says Wellington Court is responsible for 
his loss. In response, Wellington Court said Mr S has never been its customer, so it has no 
case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr S to Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from 
Mr Ss SIPP and paid to Wellington Court. He thought this was enough evidence to show 
Wellington Court was responsible for Mr Ss transfer and, therefore, that this was a 
complaint that we could look at.
As Wellington Court maintains it has never dealt with Mr S, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision.
On 3 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the 
evidence that was available to me. I repeat what I said here.
Review of Evidence
In making my provisional decision I will be referring to the following:
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr S and GMTC:
I . An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to 
the Orbis SIPP on Mr Ss behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for 
the SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN 
Group (administrators and trustees of the SIPP) on 8 June 2015. The letter is 
signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
I I . The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like 
the covering letter, this was signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as 
the one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed 
by hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided 
 the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration 
number. The form was signed on 5 June 2015.
I I I . The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 1 June 2015.
I V . The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page 
document outlining the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 
1 June 2015.
V . An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had 
agreed to pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the 
Company") to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') 
and any related investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement.
Mr S signed the form on 1 June 2015.
V I . An Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of 
Mr Ss transfer, including the policy numbers of the pensions he was transferring 
from and their transfer values. This was signed by Mr S on 1 June 2015.
V I I . Various documents from Mr Ss transferring pension providers.
V I I I . Screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal for Mr Ss 
transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer.
I X . A loan note certificate for £53,466.34 from Dolphin Capital which had an issue date 
of 13 August 2015.
X . A SIPP bank account statement dated 5 February 2021 showing the account 
transactions since it was opened on 9 June 2015.
2. Mr Ss recollectionsMr S says that he was cold-called by someone about his pension, which led to a 
meeting being arranged with an agent, Mr R. He says Mr R introduced the idea of 
investing his pension in Dolphin Capital, which he said was a secure investment. Mr S 
recalls that Mr R said he was not authorised to provide him with advice and gave him 
some documents to sign. Mr S says he now understands that Wellington Court was 
involved with the transfer of his pensions but he wasnt aware of this at the time.
3. Information from Mr Ss previous pension providers
One of Mr Ss previous pension providers (A) sent us information to assist with our 
investigations. This information shows that, amongst other things, Mr Ss pension was 
previously invested in a fund with a relatively high equity weighting.
4. Documents from Wellington Court
Wellington Court hasnt provided any documents in relation to Mr Ss transfer because 
it says it didnt advise Mr S and that Mr S has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did 
some consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into 
the Orbis SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no 
transfers of safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive 
that type of transfer. It has also recently stated that all payments it received from 
GMTC were for administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Wellington Court added that its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in relation to 
some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 10 August 2016. 
The attendees at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and two 
representatives from the FCA. It says evidence of the administrative work carried out 
by Mr P was produced at the meeting with the FCA. Wellington Court provided some 
notes relating to the meeting but I havent included the notes here as ultimately they 
are not material to the outcome of this complaint.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  
but it hasnt done so. Wellington Court says further details about the meeting with the 
FCA and the evidence provided in relation to the work carried out by Mr P can be 
provided by the FCA.
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
Mr S transferred £56,638.09 in total from his personal pensions to the Orbis SIPP 
between 2 and 6 July 2015. A 1% fee on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee 
in the Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £566.38. According 
to his SIPP transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ss transfer 
value on 14 July 2015. This was recorded on his SIPP statement as IFA Fees - 
Wellington Fee. I can see the £566.38 was paid from the SIPP deposit account (with 
Metro Bank) to the GMTC client account (with Bank N) on 14 July 2015. This amount 
was included with 1% fees for 17 other individuals and the total amount, which came 
to £7,731.07, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank 
account (with Bank H) on 15 July 2015.6. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence 
that has been collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved 
in these transfers.
II. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
III. Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this 
payment relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES. This payment included Mr Ss £566.38 
fee.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number 
of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar 
cases. Its not necessarily comprehensive. So I think its fair to say the above 
shows that at least £87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank 
account in relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its 
entirely possible that payments were happening before and after this six month 
period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments 
being received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on
25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because 
Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see 
no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington 
Court. So, Ill proceed on that basis, particularly as Wellington Court has already 
had the opportunity to dispute this evidence in relation to other cases in which 
decisions have been issued.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr S (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ss pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ss transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr S (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were paid to Wellington 
Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query 
them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at 
the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but 
were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. 
I therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business 
relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Ss pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr S was an eligible complainant, the activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint, I noted Wellington Court didnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ss transfer. 
I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew 
it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable.
And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mr S ended up 
investing in Dolphin Capital, which was a non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated 
investment. I didnt think this investment was suitable for Mr S. I also didnt think Mr S would 
have needed to transfer his pensions to a SIPP, given the costs involved in doing so. All 
things considered, therefore, I didnt think the transfer was suitable.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr Ss representative didnt have anything to add.
Wellington Court responded, maintaining that Mr Ss complaint was totally unwarranted. It 
said Mr S was not a customer of Wellington Court and it did not provide him with advice. 
Wellington Court said that any documents linking it to the pension transfer were fraudulent. It 
said Mr Ss complaint should be lodged with the responsible parties who it believes he met 
at the time. Wellington Court also asked for a copy of our full file, including all evidence, 
meeting notes and statements obtained from Mr S about his involvement with third parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory 
business relating to the transfer of pensions to the Orbis SIPP, which included the transfer of 
Mr Ss pensions. I also concluded that Wellington Courts actions were not consistent with it 
being the victim of fraudulent activity.
For this reason I concluded that Mr Ss complaint fell within this services jurisdiction. And 
I upheld Mr Ss complaint on the grounds that the advice to transfer his existing pensions to 
a SIPP and invest in Dolphin Capital wasnt suitable for him.
Mr S didnt dispute the findings I made in my provisional decision and although Wellington 
Court responded, it didnt make any new points or provide any new evidence for me to 
consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, which I summarise again as follows:
Theres documentary evidence to show Mr S  and many others, as outlined above  
signed up for advice from Wellington Court and that the 1% fee for that advice was 
paid to Wellington Court.The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it 
doesnt appear to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to receive 
those fees. 
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to the 
transfer of a number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. It told us Mr P was involved in 
this but his role was restricted to checking whether the customers pensions included 
safeguarded benefits.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship 
between the parties at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have led 
to Wellington Court doing other work on the transfers, potentially with the minimum of 
paperwork  especially as both organisations were based in the same town when the 
transfers (Mr Ss included) were taking place and Mr P apparently spent time in 
GMTCs offices. 
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could 
explain why Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its 
consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or the dates the payments were made 
(or indeed if there was more than one payment). So its difficult to say its consultancy 
work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the income it was 
receiving from GMTC.
The nature of Wellington Courts consultancy work was such that it held discussions 
with the FCA about what it was doing for GMTC. So it seems its activities were 
important and prominent enough to have warranted interest from the regulator. 
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work with 
GMTC even though it wasnt a particularly long time ago and despite this activity 
coming under the scrutiny of the FCA.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for 
GMTC. In the absence of such evidence, Wellington Court hasnt shown that its role 
in Mr Ss pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet 
Wellington Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to 
the appropriate authorities (the police for instance) or even done much to investigate 
the matter itself beyond telling us, and many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So 
its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations too much credence given its own 
lack of action on the alleged fraud.
It is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of transferring a pension 
with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers often carry out 
the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a regulated 
adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers will not meet with or 
speak to the firm providing the advice. So I dont think that those customers who say 
they didnt speak to a representative of Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its 
involvement, is particularly unusual here.
In order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice 
had been given to Mr S. And the paperwork submitted, such as the adviser 
remuneration form, confirmed Mr S had appointed Wellington Court to provide him with advice. So, I think the transfer proceeded on the basis that Wellington Court had 
advised Mr S to do so.
Some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. For instance, the letter that was sent 
to GMTC enclosing Mr Ss transfer papers was undated and signed on behalf of Mr P 
from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The signature on that letter is 
indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist was signed on 
Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again indecipherable (but 
looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the signature, Mr Ps 
first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an incorrect FCA 
reference number was also provided.
Questioning GMTCs role in what happened is a reasonable. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington 
Court wasnt involved. In order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has 
alleged, GMTC would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of 
unsolicited, but substantial, payments into its bank account over an extended period 
and on those people that transferred (of which there many dozens) not questioning 
Wellington Court at any point. I dont think it likely that GMTC would have taken its 
chances in this way unless, of course, it had some sort of understanding with 
Wellington Court  in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key to what 
happened.
Whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr S, it was still nonetheless 
engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer  and the transfer of many 
other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect 
from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings 
with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court 
didnt properly advise Mr S, and others, despite being paid to do so.
Jurisdiction
Mr S complained about a regulated activity, as advising someone to set up a SIPP 
and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to that SIPP is a regulated 
activity. Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ss 
transfer and investment in Dolphin Capital. In short, what Wellington Court did here 
constituted making arrangements under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
Mr S is an eligible complainant. Mr S is Wellington Courts customer as he signed up 
for advice and he paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and accepted, payment 
for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to Mr S 
transferring and investing in the way he did. So Im satisfied there is a customer 
relationship here.
I acknowledge that Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy 
work for GMTC, which may have given rise to a business-to-business relationship. 
But, it hasnt provided enough information to establish what the exact nature of its 
relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there is a relationship 
between the complainant, Mr S, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any 
consultancy arrangement that may have been in place.
The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK; 
Wellington Court is a regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits. So, with all of this above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a 
case I can consider.
The merits of Mr Ss complaint
The transfers to the Orbis SIPP appear to  have been initiated by introducers who 
sourced potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a 
position to transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the 
involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role.
Theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return 
for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the 
time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington 
Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, providing a veneer of 
advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of transfers. 
There isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ss financial needs 
and circumstances were at the time. But, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable 
for Mr S. I say this because Dolphin Capital was a non-mainstream, high risk, 
unregulated investment. Mr S doesnt appear to have had the degree of investment 
knowledge or risk appetite that such an investment would have required. And it also 
looks like he allocated all of his pension savings to the one investment which strikes 
me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least risk 
averse investors. Its also not apparent to me from the available evidence why Mr S 
needed to amalgamate his existing pensions to a SIPP, especially given the costs 
involved in doing so. All things considered, therefore, I dont think the transfer was 
suitable for him and as a result I think he has suffered a loss to his pension.
Nevertheless, I think Mr S had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy 
because he was open to a transfer in the first place. As no attitude to risk 
assessment was carried out by Wellington Court, we asked for information from 
Mr Ss previous pension providers in order to see how his pension assets were 
previously invested. This would give some insight into Mr Ss risk profile. We only 
received a response from A, which showed that Mr Ss pension was invested in a 
portfolio with a relatively high equity weighting. This would indicate a balanced or 
medium attitude to risk. No response was received from the other provider, but as the 
funds held with A amounted to around 95% of Mr Ss total pension assets,  I think it is 
reasonable to base Mr Ss risk profile on the way his pension was invested with A. 
Mr S still had over seven years before he could think about accessing his pension, so 
he had time to recoup losses. With this in mind, I think Mr S most likely had a 
medium attitude to risk. My approach to compensation, which is set out below, 
reflects these considerations.
Wellington Courts request for our full file
Wellington Court has asked for our full file, particularly statements from Mr S about his 
involvement with third parties.
Wellington Court was sent the evidence we received from GMTC relating to the SIPP and 
evidence demonstrating the fee it received for providing Mr S with advice following my 
provisional decision. This is the key evidence I relied on to make my decision. Our investigator asked Mr S for his recollections from the time of the advice, which I set out 
in my provisional decision and I have repeated above. Mr S has not made any other 
statements. He also hasnt been able to provide any other documents that shed any further 
light on whatever involvement an introducer had in the transfer of his pension. So, Im 
satisfied that Wellington Court is already aware of what Mr S recalls about the introducers 
involvement. And in any event, as I have said above, Ive taken into account that an 
introducer was most likely involved in the transfer of Mr Ss pension. But irrespective of this, 
Im satisfied that Wellington Court was appointed as Mr Ss adviser and that Mr Ss pension 
was only transferred to the SIPP because of Wellington Courts involvement.
It follows from the above that I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. Wellington Court should put 
things right for him by following the approach outlined below.
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be in 
if he had been given suitable advice. I dont think Mr S wouldve transferred his pensions to a 
SIPP, but I think he would have sought to invest his pensions differently to achieve higher 
growth. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested. 
What should Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Compensation should be based 
on Mr S being a basic rate taxpayer. However, if Mr S would have been able to take 
a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Orbis SIPP still existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days 
of the business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as appears to 
be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr S provides an 
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
 
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP and 
prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investment needs to be removed. If 
Wellington Court cant do this, Mr S is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume 
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant buy the investment, it should pay 
an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current full tariff. This is in addition 
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
I also think Wellington Court should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice, which has caused a total loss to Mr Ss 
pension.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S 
in a clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman