DRN-3646360
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to pay an income payment 
from her pension savings in a timely manner. As a result of that delay, the income she 
received was paid in a subsequent tax year to that she intended.
What happened
Mrs W has been assisted in making her complaint, and in her dealings with Aviva, by her 
financial advisor. But, for ease, in this decision I will not always distinguish between the 
actions of Mrs W and her advisor, or between who communications were made or received 
by.
Mrs Ws husband also made a similar income request to Aviva at the same time. He faced 
the same problems that form that basis of this complaint. I am dealing with Mr Ws complaint 
separately but given the identical nature of their complaints I make no apology for the 
similarities in my final decisions.
Mrs W held pension savings with Aviva. In March 2020 she decided to make a withdrawal 
from her pension savings. She intended to take part of that money as a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  often known as tax free cash) with the remainder being 
subject to income tax. Mrs W wanted to receive the payment before the end of the 2019-20 
tax year in April.
On 25 March Mrs Ws financial advisor started to input the payment instruction using Avivas 
online system. But he received an error message and was unable to complete the 
instruction. He tried, and failed, to contact Aviva by phone so he sent an email to Aviva 
seeking some assistance. He was aware that the Aviva deadline for payments to be made 
before the end of the tax year was the following day. 
The following day, Mrs Ws advisor hadnt received any response from Aviva so he entered 
the instruction in the form of a regular payment as that was the only method he could find to 
allow the system to accept his request. He again followed that instruction up with a further 
email explaining his actions, and asking that Aviva assist him in correcting the system 
problems.
Aviva was unable to correct the instruction. And given the normal timescales that applied to 
regular payments, rather than one-off withdrawals, the income payment wasnt received by 
Mrs W until the start of the following tax year. She complained to Aviva about what had 
happened.
At first Aviva failed to deal with Mrs Ws complaint and overlooked its response. So when, 
the following year, it sent her its final response it offered her £200 for the inconvenience 
shed been caused by the delay. And in its final response letter Aviva said that it would alter 
the payment date for Mrs Ws income to the previous tax year, and update HMRC.
But over the following days Aviva explained that it had investigated the matter further and 
was no longer able to offer to backdate the payment that had been made. It said that its 
investigations indicated that it hadnt been response for the delay and so couldnt make the 
request to HMRC. It said the income payment had been made in accordance with the 
instruction it had been given.
Mrs Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Aviva 
should backdate the payment as he thought the delay had been caused by Mrs Ws 
financial advisor entering the instruction incorrectly. The investigator noted that Aviva had 
offered to pay a further sum of £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
by not responding to Mrs Ws advisors request for help in a timely manner. He thought that 
the payment Aviva had offered for the inconvenience caused was reasonable.
Mrs W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs W and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The weeks leading up to the end of the tax year are a very busy time for firms such as Aviva. 
So it is common practice for firms to provide advance notice of deadlines that might apply for 
the receipt of instructions to ensure their completion before the tax year end. In 2020 the 
guidance from Aviva stated that online instructions for one off withdrawals, such as the one 
intended by Mrs W, would need to be received by close of business on 26 March.
So it is against that backdrop that Mrs Ws financial advisor started to input the one-off 
withdrawal instruction on 25 March. It seems that the withdrawal might have been planned 
for some time, with the necessary funds being held within the pension savings in cash. But 
when the instruction was submitted the financial advisor received an error message and was 
unable to proceed any further.
At that time, the support that Aviva was able to offer had been severely impacted by the 
government regulations in response to the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Whilst Aviva 
accepts that the service it was providing fell short of its normal aspirations, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to conclude that was as a result of a failing by the business. It was 
facing exceptional circumstances that required a significant change to its working practices. 
It is understandable that there might have been a period of time where Aviva was less able 
to respond in as timely a manner as normal.Aviva has explained to us why Mrs Ws original one-off withdrawal instruction returned a 
processing error. It has said there was a mismatch between the source of funds chosen to 
provide the income (cash), and the information that was input later in the process where the 
fund source was shown as pro-rata. And it says that Mrs Ws financial advisor was trying to 
input a taxable withdrawal using pre-retirement (uncrystallised) funds, whereas a payment of 
that nature would need to be taken from a post retirement (crystallised funds) account.
It seems to me that Avivas explanations for the errors faced by the financial advisor when 
inputting the instruction are plausible and most likely represent the root cause of the 
problem. I entirely accept that, had telephone support been available to the financial advisor 
at the time, he would most likely have been able to place a correct and valid instruction. But, 
as Ive explained above, I think the cause of that lack of telephone support was reasonable 
and largely outside the control of Aviva.
Mrs Ws financial advisor appears to have been very aware of the importance of the 
impending deadline. So when he wasnt able to obtain any immediate support from Aviva to 
allow the completion of the one-off withdrawal instruction he decided to input a regular 
withdrawal instruction instead. The impact of that instruction allowed for the PCLS to be 
paid, almost immediately, to Mrs W. But it meant that, in line with Avivas normal processing 
standards for an instruction of that nature, the taxable income wouldnt be paid until after the 
end of the tax year.
I can see that Mrs Ws financial advisor appears to have been very aware that the instruction 
he had submitted was incorrect. And so he took immediate steps to contact Aviva and ask 
that it be amended to reflect the intentions of Mrs W, that had been blocked by the error 
encountered on the initial instruction.
There is no doubt that, in the following days, the responses from Aviva produced some 
expectation that the payment instruction could be successfully amended to reflect Mrs Ws 
objectives. But, as time went on, and more specialist teams from Aviva became involved, it 
became clear that would not be the case. Aviva appears to have had no easy method to 
alter the submitted instruction, nor the available resources to fast-track a new payment.
There is no doubt how disappointing that apparent change of approach from Aviva would 
have been for Mrs W. I accept that her financial advisor had taken the steps he thought were 
necessary to provide the best opportunity for the payment to be made on time. But ultimately 
I am satisfied that the reason the original instruction produced an error wasnt because of 
something that was wrong with Avivas systems  I think the financial advisor had most likely 
made a mistake when adding it. So I dont think that I should have any expectation that 
Aviva should be required to make things right.
It does appear that Aviva, at a relationship manager level, wanted to provide whatever 
assistance it could to Mrs W and her financial advisor. But ultimately it is the processing 
teams that would need to make any corrections. And those teams are best placed to 
understand the resourcing and systems limitations that might be applicable. As Ive said 
earlier this would have been an extremely busy period for those teams, made significantly 
worse by the changes to working practices brought about by the government coronavirus 
restrictions.In summary I havent seen anything to suggest that Avivas systems were at fault for the 
failure of the initial instruction. Instead I am persuaded that it is most likely that the 
instruction failed because of input errors by the financial advisor. I have no doubts that, had 
the financial advisor been able to access telephone support from Aviva whilst inputting the 
instruction, the problems could have been identified and resolved. But I find the explanation 
for the absence of that support to be reasonable. I am satisfied that Aviva made reasonable 
efforts, given the time and resourcing pressures, to correct the instruction ultimately placed 
by the financial advisor. But overall Im not persuaded that I should require Aviva to have 
made those corrections, despite its earlier offer to do so.
The telephone support that Aviva was able to provide to Mrs W and her financial advisor fell 
short of what it would expect. Whilst I have found the reasons for that to be acceptable, there 
is no doubt that Mrs W has been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result. 
In total Aviva has offered Mrs W £350 in compensation for that inconvenience. My 
understanding is that £200 of that compensation has already been paid. But Aviva should 
now ensure that Mrs W has been paid the entire £350 should she accept this final decision.
Putting things right
Aviva has offered to pay Mrs W £350 for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused by the lack of telephone support in the lead up to her taking her pension income. 
Aviva should pay to Mrs W whatever balance of that amount remains outstanding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Ws complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman