DRN-2419138
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct unfairly delayed processing 
his application for a savings account.
What happened
Mr F opened a fixed rate Regular Saver account with First Direct. He says he had to open a 
current account with HSBC (known as a First Account) in order to meet one of the eligibility 
conditions. He applied online for the First Account on 30 September 2019. He says hed 
previously held a First Account but closed it because of service issues. He says First Direct 
delayed dealing with those issues. And, that was why he hadnt opened a new First Account 
sooner. 
Mr F says he was told hed get a text or email once the account was opened. But he didnt 
receive any text or email. He found out the account was open when he received a letter from 
First Direct on 4 October 2019. He telephoned First Direct, on that date, to set up his 
security details and asked it whether he should apply for the Regular Saver account online 
or by telephone. First Direct told him to apply online. But it also told him that the rate of 
interest on the Regular Saver account had been reduced from 5% to 2.75% on 3 October 
2019.
Mr F continued with his application for the Regular Saver account. It was opened on 9 
October 2019. Mr F complained to First Direct about what had happened. 
First Direct investigated his complaint. It said the First Account had been opened on 2 
October 2019. It said it had dealt with issues hed raised about the previous First Account 
hed held, in line with its procedures. So, it didnt accept this had delayed his application for a 
new First Account. It said the rate of interest on the Regular Saver account had been 
reduced in light of market changes and the new rate of interest remained competitive. It said 
it wouldnt adjust the rate of interest on Mr Fs Regular Saver account to 5%. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. He said the timeline of events showed that on the date when Mr F 
applied for the Regular Saver account the rate of interest was 2.75%. So, he didnt agree 
that First Direct had acted unfairly or that it had done anything wrong.
Mr F didnt agree. He said First Direct shouldve sent him confirmation about his First 
Account by email or text on the day the First Account had been opened. If it had done that, 
he says he wouldve applied for the Regular Saver before the interest rate had reduced. 
The investigator whod previously looked into Mr Fs complaint had left our service. So, a 
new investigator had taken over the complaint. She considered everything that Mr F had 
said. She said there was no evidence to suggest that the closure of his previous First 
Account had any bearing or caused delays with opening the new First Account. She also 
thought that even if he had applied for the Regular Saver account on 2 October it was 
unlikely, he wouldve received the interest rate of 5%. She said this was because it took 
several days for First Direct to process an application for a Regular Saver account. She 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Because Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions for the Regular Saver account. These state that 
in order to apply for a Regular Saver account the customer must already hold a First 
Account with First Direct. The terms also state that once the Regular Saver account is 
opened the rate of interest remains fixed from that date for twelve months. 
Mr F applied for the qualifying account (the First Account) on 30 September 2019. He says 
he was told hed be sent an email or text message once the account was opened. But he 
says that even though the account was opened on 2 October 2019, he didnt receive any 
text message or email. Instead he was sent a letter which he didnt receive until 4 October 
2019.
Our service asked First Direct to confirm what its usual procedures were in relation to 
advising customers when a First Account was opened. It said it shouldve sent Mr F a text 
message on 2 October 2019, but it wasnt able to provide any evidence to show that it had 
done this in Mr Fs case. 
So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Mr F wouldve been told 
hed get a text message. And, he didnt get a text message.
Ive then thought about whether this wouldve changed what happened subsequently. Mr F 
says if hed got the text message on 2 October 2019, he wouldve applied immediately for 
the Regular Saver account and he wouldve been eligible for the 5% interest rate. But, thats 
not what the terms and conditions said. These stated that once the eligibility requirements 
were met Mr F could apply for the Regular Saver Account. And, he could do that either via 
the App or online banking. They also said that the fixed rate of interest was subject to 
change. The rate which would apply to the account was the rate which applied on the date 
the account was opened. 
Mr F wouldve needed to set up online banking before he could apply for the Regular Saver. 
And, First Direct would then have had to consider his application before opening the new 
account. It was the date when the account was opened which would determine the rate of 
interest that applied to the account.
Having considered everything here, I dont think there was time to complete that process 
before the rates changed on 3 October 2019. Ill explain why. 
I can see that it was possible to set up online banking on the telephone. Mr F was able to do 
that when he phoned First Direct on 4 October. So, I think it is possible he may have been 
able to do that on 2 October, if hed been sent a text message about his First Account. And, 
its possible he wouldve been able to apply for the Regular Saver Account on that date. But 
the fixed rate of interest which applied was the rate of interest on the date the account was 
opened  it wasnt the rate of interest that applied when the application was made. 
That doesnt mean First Direct couldve deliberately delayed processing an application it 
received on 2 October 2019 in order to unfairly prevent an applicant from getting a better rate of interest. And, Id just point out that theres no suggestion, or evidence to suggest, it 
wouldve done that, or wouldve sought to do that, if the application had been made on 2 
October. 
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to have expected First Direct to have 
processed an application made online on 2 October 2019 within the very short timeframe 
which wouldve been required for Mr F to get the 5% rate of interest. That wouldve required 
the application to have been processed and the account opened - all on 2 October 2019.
I can see that although Mr F made his Regular Saver application on 4 October 2019, it was 9 
October 2019 before the application was processed and the account opened. I can also see 
that Mr Fs told us he applied for the First Account on 30 September 2019  but that account 
hadnt been opened until 2 October. So, I think thats indicative of the timeframes which 
usually applied, and which I think wouldve reasonably applied, if he had made his 
application for the Regular Saver account on 2 October.
Mr F has also indicated that First Direct delayed dealing with an issue about the closure of a 
First Account hed previously held. That account was closed on 25 September 2019. Mr F 
thought that if that matter had been sorted out more quickly, he wouldve been in a position 
to start the process of opening the new First Account much earlier than 30 September. 
In this decision Ive not been considering what happened when Mr F decided to close his 
previous First Account. Mr F told us, after our investigator issued his view on the complaint, 
that he didnt think this point was as relevant to his complaint. And I also dont think its 
relevant to what happened here. I say this because the Regular Saver rate of 5%, which Mr 
F says he was interested in, had been in place for some time. Ive also noted that Mr F says 
one of the reasons why he was willing to open a new First Account was because hed found 
out First Direct had scrapped the monthly fee. I can see that that fee was removed from 14 
September 2019 for both new and existing customers. The previous account was closed on 
25 September 2019. But Mr F didnt make his application for the new account until several 
days later.
When Mr F did make his application for the Regular Saver, he knew the rate of interest had 
decreased. First Direct told him that when he spoke to it on 4 October and hed also have 
been made aware of the rate when he applied for the account online. He still went ahead 
and made the application. That was his choice. And, in these circumstances I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to require First Direct to change the rate of interest which applied 
to his Regular Saver account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc 
trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman