DRN-2666864
The complaint
C, a business, complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard wont take any 
responsibility for fraudulent payments it processed.
What happened
C had a merchant processing agreement with Barclays. It took nine payments by card over 
the period 15 April to 30 May 2019 and which totalled nearly £44,000. All of these payments 
were charged back as the genuine cardholders said they hadnt made the payments. C says 
that Barclays should have alerted it to fraud and as it didnt do so should refund the money it 
has lost.
Barclays said it hadnt made any mistake. The payments were all processed as card not 
present transactions which carried a higher risk, and this was borne by the merchant. It 
didnt know about any specific chargeback until 3 June 2019. The authorisation of a payment 
using a terminal wasnt a guarantee of payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She referred to the 
procedure guide about processing card not present payments. This set out that 
authorisation does not guarantee payment and it merely confirms that there are sufficient 
funds available on the account and that the card had not been reported lost or stolen. It set 
out the inherent risks with this type of transaction and that it was the merchants 
responsibility to check the actual card upon collection or delivery and to obtain a signature.
Barclays wasnt aware of any issues with the payments until after the last one was 
processed. There was nothing it had to warn C about.
C didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It didnt think that Barclays provided 
a service and payment terminal that was fit for purpose. C will consider legal action. It 
referred to a warning it had received in 2020 from a different payment processing provider 
about a payment from a person it thinks was involved in the earlier fraud too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that C has been the victim of fraud and I know from what the owner says 
that this has had a very significant effect on a small business. Over a relatively short period 
of time C was targeted by fraudsters using cards issued abroad. From what Ive seen there 
were eight different card numbers used. It seems that C became aware that were some 
overlaps between the information provided by the fraudsters. And Ive seen a record that it 
contacted Barclays about those suspicions on 30 May 2019. For one transaction it had 
obtained address details including a utility bill, but it says that the authorities told it that these 
were fake documents. I dont know what past issues C had with fraud or chargebacks and 
whether these transactions were particularly out of the ordinary. But clearly C was 
comfortable with making them at the time and now wants to understand why Barclays didnt 
alert it to the problems.
Our investigator has referred to the operating guide and Barclays in its final response also 
quoted from its terms and conditions. I understand that C had been a customer since 2014 
and I think it was fairly subject to the terms of this agreement. 
I know in a letter from a representative of C its said that it was assumed that the payments 
being authorised meant there was no issue with them. Im afraid that wasnt the position and 
that only meant there had been no fraud reported at the time of processing. And that the 
genuine cardholders own bank had allowed the payment to go through. 
Reference has already been made to the specific risks of card not present payments. These 
couldnt be verified in the way say that chip and PIN would do. C hadnt actually seen the 
genuine cards and been able to make any other checks. And the terms of its agreement with 
Barclays set out that payments could be disputed by the genuine cardholder under the 
relevant card scheme rules. There was a specific period of time to do so. And C would be 
responsible for any such successful chargebacks. One example of this might be the term 
(4.2 (a)) If you do not give us evidence that the genuine cardholder or account holder has 
authorised the payment or if the evidence you provide to us does not keep to the 
requirements set out in the procedure guide or any operating manual.
Im satisfied that Barclays didnt know of any dispute before C had processed all these 
payments. It said that the first formal request came on 3 June 2019. And that it wrote to C 
about that to ask it to provide any additional information to defend it. There was no such 
evidence for this (in line with the operating guide) and for the other payments and so all were 
charged back.
I know C expected Barclays to protect it from such fraud. I dont know the specifics of the 
arrangement C now has with a different business, but I am only looking here at what 
Barclays did. I note that in the final response Barclays says that it didnt have an obligation to 
screen and notify C of potentially fraudulent transactions. And that C hadnt taken up its 
bespoke fraud service. I cant know whether that in any event would have picked up these 
transactions or not now and with the benefit of hindsight. But the point is that I dont see that 
Barclays undertook to do more than operate within the terms of the agreement Ive referred 
to. I dont have a basis to find it made a mistake. And I dont have anything that leads me to 
conclude that it should or must have realised the issue here based on what I know about 
these payments and what C has said.  
So, I know I am going to disappoint C and its owner when I say that I am not going to be 
asking Barclays to do anything further. I am not finding Barclays is responsible for all or any 
part of Cs loss here: that is down to the fraudsters. If C doesnt accept my decision it 
remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits as it has 
indicated it might do.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman