DRN-3154723
The complaint
Mrs B complains Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly defaulted her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs B had a credit card account with Capital One. To maintain the account, she needed to 
make at least minimum payments by a certain due date each month. Minimum payments 
werent made from March 2020 onwards which led to Capital One defaulting the account in 
September 2020.
 
Mrs B didnt think it was fair for Capital One to default the account. She explained shed had 
some difficult personal circumstances and had attempted to make payments via 
Capital Ones app without success. Capital One was sympathetic to Mrs Bs circumstances 
but didnt think it was wrong to default the account.
 
Mrs B asked our service for an independent review. The investigator looked into things and 
concluded, in summary, Capital One hadnt done anything wrong. This was because it had 
made Mrs B aware of the need for her to make a payment and she hadnt done so. Mrs B 
disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, Mrs B needed to make a payment to Capital One each month. From 
March 2020 she didnt do so which resulted in arrears accruing and eventually the account 
defaulting. 
Capital One has provided copies of various letters it sent to Mrs B between May and 
September 2020 highlighting the need to make a payment and what would happen if she 
didnt do so. Its also explained monthly statements were sent to Mrs B electronically. So Im 
satisfied Capital One did enough to make Mrs B aware there was a problem.
In any case, Mrs B says she was aware she needed to make a payment and received 
Capital Ones letters but was dealing with difficult personal circumstances and the impact of 
the pandemic on her household finances. She further says she attempted to make payments 
via the app but couldnt. 
I accept Mrs B had issues with the app and may have had unsuccessful attempts to contact 
Capital One by phone, but ultimately it was her responsibility to make payments. By not 
doing so for several months, and by not contacting Capital One to explain why, it was fair 
and reasonable for Capital One to consider the account as in default.
Mrs B repaid the account in full soon after the default had been applied and explained to 
Capital One what had led to the default. By this point, however, it was too late. As it wasnt 
wrong for Capital One to apply the default when it did, I cant fairly require its removal.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman