DRN-4201896
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line, who I 
will refer to as UKI) has handled a claim she made following a road traffic crash (RTC) she 
was involved in.
What happened
On 1 June 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. This is what I said in the provisional decision: 
What happened
On the morning of 28 October 2021, Miss C was involved in an RTC on her way to 
work. When Miss C approached the lane entry of her work premises she signalled to 
turn right and reduced her speed in preparation of turning. Miss C said shed slowed 
down to allow a tractor and trailer in front of her to move out of the way so she could 
check oncoming traffic before turning. She recalled checking her mirrors on a number 
of occasions to ensure it was safe to proceed. As she entered the lane, Miss C told 
us that the back of the drivers side of her vehicle was hit by another car that was 
attempting overtake three cars, the tractor and trailer. The impact of the collision 
pushed her car off the road and into a hedge.
The police attended the scene and Miss C was taken to hospital for an assessment 
of her injuries. When Miss C contacted UKI to tell them about the incident she says 
she was told by two different individuals that it sounded likely that she would be 
attributed with no fault in the collision. However, a few days later, during the evening 
of 3 November 2021, Miss C received a text message from UKI to notify her that she 
was being attributed with thirty percent of the blame for the collision. UKI said this 
was based on the case of Joliffe v Hay, 1991 S.L.T 151 (1990) (Joliffe v Hay), in 
which the court concluded there was contributory negligence on the part of the 
vehicle in front. UKI confirmed that liability was accepted on a without prejudice 
basis.
Miss C then instructed solicitors to act for her, who Ill refer to as T. They initially 
wrote to UKI on 17 December 2021. UKI issued their final response on 16 May 2022 
not upholding Miss Cs complaint, and confirming, among other things, that a police 
report wasnt obtained as UKI felt it wasnt necessary given the level of detail Miss C 
had provided about the accident. UKI also said there were no witnesses present at 
the time of the accident. 
Unhappy with UKIs final response, T referred Miss Cs complaint to this service on 
29 April 2022. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. He said that while this service cant comment on liability decisions, we do 
need to be satisfied that an insurer has taken into account all of the available 
evidence before making a decision on a claim. Our investigator concluded that UKIs 
decision on liability had followed consideration of all the available evidence it had at 
the time, and therefore its decision to accept partial lability for the RTC was 
reasonable.
Miss Cs representative, T, didnt accept our investigators view. T requested an 
extension of time to provide additional information as they were awaiting a Police 
Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) report on the incident. They also provided a 
detailed response from Miss C, in which she was adamant that it was the dangerous 
driving of the other driver, that had caused the RTC.
Our investigator forwarded the supplemental information including the PSNI report 
and two witness statements provided by T, to UKI on 2 December 2022. He asked 
UKI to consider the information and confirm whether it would change their decision 
on the complaint. The evidence included a reference to Miss C being cautioned for 
driving without due care and attention. A short while later UKI advised that it had now 
accepted fifty percent of the liability for the accident.
T requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T believes that UKI based its liability decision on inadequate evidence. On the day of 
the accident, UKIs claims handler took details from Miss C regarding what had 
happened. That was the only conversation UKI had with Miss C, and on the basis of 
that initial conversation, during which T says Miss C was still in a state of shock from 
being involved in a serious car accident six hours prior, UKI accepted thirty percent 
liability for the accident.
T also argues that there are a number of fundamental differences between the RTC 
Miss C was involved with, and the circumstances of the case of Joliffe v Hay. I will 
address those differences later in this decision.
However, UKI maintains that Miss C must take some of the blame for the incident 
based on Joliffe v Hay, as it believes she hadnt checked it was safe to carry out her 
right turn when she did. UKI says both versions of events confirmed that and there 
was no independent evidence to support holding the third party fully at fault.
UKI referred to page 26 of their policy booklet, in support of their decision to accept 
partial liability, which says:
Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
a. You must not admit liability for or negotiate to settle any claim without our 
written permission
b. We are entitled to: 
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of 
any claim in your name or in the name of any other person 
covered by this policy
Having considered the paragraph detailed above, I agree that UKIs terms, like those of most motor insurers, allow it to settle matters as it sees fit. However, we do expect 
insurers to use the discretion given by that term fairly and reasonably. What that 
means will be different in the circumstances of each case. An insurer should 
complete a reasonable investigation of the claim and determine that its prospects for 
success in defending its policyholders liability for a claim arent good. In those 
circumstances wed be unlikely to say it had acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
accepting liability for the claim on a without prejudice basis. However, Im currently of 
the view that UKI did not complete a reasonable investigation or assessment of 
Miss Cs claim. I will explain why.
In this case, UKI only spoke to Miss C once, within six hours of the accident, and 
carried out no other investigation. UKI immediately (and in my view incorrectly, as I 
will shortly explain) concluded that the circumstances Miss C had described were 
exactly the same scenario as that of the Joliffe v Hay case. It didnt place any weight 
on Miss Cs adamant view that she wasnt responsible for the accident, and when it 
was later presented with more evidence, it quickly dismissed the evidence. UKI also 
didnt obtain a legal opinion, which, in this particular case, I consider would have 
been a reasonable step to take. Given the consequences for Miss C of their decision 
to accept liability, I think UKI should have carried out a more detailed investigation 
before doing so.
I will give my reasons for why Im intending to uphold this complaint below, under the 
following two headings: The application of Joliffe v Hay; and The available evidence. 
I will then address the question of whether UKI should pay Miss C compensation for 
the way its handled her claim. But before I do so, I would like to explain the basis on 
which I make my decision. Where the evidence is inconclusive, inconsistent or 
contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities, 
that is, what I think more likely than not happened. That is the standard of proof I will 
be applying in this decision. 
The application of Joliffe v Hay
In my view there are four factors which distinguish Miss Cs case from that of 
Joliffe v Hay, relied on by UKI.
First, in Miss Cs case, the position of the overtaking vehicle was not directly behind 
Miss Cs vehicle. In Joliffe v Hay, the vehicle which crashed into the turning vehicle 
was immediately behind it, and the court found that the driver of the front vehicle had 
failed to keep a proper look out, as hed only checked his mirror once before 
concluding the vehicle behind would not move out. The court believed that showed a 
lack of reasonable care. However, in Miss Cs case, she had checked the vehicle in 
front and the two vehicles immediately behind her before starting her manoeuvre. 
She was hit by a vehicle that was third in-line behind her, and which appears, on 
balance, to have been travelling at a significant speed.
Second, having taken account of all of the available evidence, Im currently 
persuaded that Miss C likely did check her mirrors a number of times before she 
started her manoeuvre. She confirmed on the call with the claims handler that shed 
checked the traffic before starting her turn, and in her witness statement included in 
the police report she said that she was constantly checking her mirrors, as she is 
aware people perform overtakes on that road (which she had been travelling on six 
days a week for the past four years).
Third, Im persuaded that the speed of the other vehicle was likely significantly faster 
than the driver admitted to. She conceded that she was attempting to pass four vehicles (one of which was a tractor and trailer), but said she was able to apply her 
brakes. However, the other evidence provided, including the observation of the 
absence of skid marks at the scene and the fact that Miss Cs car was propelled 38 
feet past the entrance to the lane that she was turning into, down a ditch and into a 
hedge, both call into question the credibility of the other drivers recollections.
I think that the fourth factor which distinguishes Miss Cs case from Joliffe v Hay is 
how much of the manoeuvre had been completed before the car was hit. In 
Joliffe v Hay, the front driver had only started his manoeuvre when the RTC 
happened. In that case, the second driver was well over to the offside of the road at 
the point of the accident, and it was concluded that the second cars movement into 
that position should have been noted by the first driver. However, in Miss Cs case 
she had almost completed her manoeuvre when the back of the drivers side of the 
vehicle was hit.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think its fair to say that Miss C had failed to 
keep a proper look out as was concluded in Joliffe v Hay. I also dont agree with 
UKIs assertion that the circumstances of Miss Cs accident were exactly the same 
scenario, and I dont think UKI have acted reasonably in seeking to apply that case to 
Miss Cs accident without further investigation. Given the differences in the two sets 
of circumstances, I think UKI should have obtained a legal opinion before making its 
decision on liability, which it decided not to do. 
Evidence from the witness statements
The road traffic crash (RTC) happened 28 October 2021. Miss C spoke with UKIs 
claims handler later that day after shed been discharged from hospital. Around 
11 minutes into the call, Miss C was reassured that the accident would need to be 
further investigated before liability could be established. Around 17 minutes into the 
call the claims handler said that if Miss C could provide the witnesses details, that 
would be great as UKI would want to speak with them. Miss C explained that the 
PSNI officer would provide the police reference to her on the Friday or Monday. The 
claims handler asked Miss C to pass that information on. However, as I will next 
explain, UKI carried out no investigation of the RTC, despite Miss C insisting that she 
was not at fault, and despite a number of sources of evidence becoming available to 
inform a proper investigation.
There is some disagreement in the information on the complaint as to who should 
have obtained a copy of the police report on the RTC. However, the PSNI report 
shows that Miss Cs statement was taken on 21 November 2021, with the police 
witness statement being taken on 7 March 2022. So, its unlikely the report would 
have been available before then. Therefore, any discussion of who should have 
obtained a copy of that information, Miss C or UKI (or both) is irrelevant as UKI told 
us theyd decided liability on the day the RTC occurred.
Approximately a year after the RTC happened, T provided this service with witness 
statements from Miss Cs employer and her father. A number of points mentioned in 
these two witness statements were corroborated by other evidence, as I will explain. 
In his witness statement, Miss Cs employer, Mr T, said that after hearing a loud 
bang, like a bomb going off, he immediately ran outside and headed down the lane to 
the entrance. He said hed spoken to one of the drivers and had taken her details, 
and those of the driver of a car on the opposite side of the road, which he provided to 
the police. The police said theyd been unsuccessful in contacting the witnesses. UKI 
doesnt appear to have made any attempt to do so and I think it should have done. Mr T also recorded a conversation hed had with the driver in the car immediately 
behind Miss Cs car, who confirmed that she had slowed down and indicated to turn 
right, corroborating Miss Cs version of events. He also recalls the officer 
commenting on the severity of the impact and the likely speed the other car had been 
travelling at, given the severity of the damage to Miss Cs car. Both Mr T and 
Miss Cs father also recalled that she was in a state of shock and a lot of pain, which 
further calls into question UKIs decision to solely base its decision on the call it had 
with Miss C, later on the day of the accident.
When UKI was provided with the witness statements and PSNI report, it simply said it 
had passed that information on to the third-party insurer but said, what wont help is 
Miss C being cautioned for driving without due care and attention. Again, UKI made 
no effort to investigate the evidence regarding the giving of the caution.
T says that Miss C was cautioned three months after the RTC but explained the 
PSNI officer had informed Miss C that shed only been cautioned as the other driver 
had raised a complaint against her. Otherwise, T says Miss C wouldnt have been 
cautioned as the officer regarded her as the victim. The Public Prosecution Service 
wrote to Miss C shortly afterwards to confirm they would not be taking any action 
against her. Its not for me to comment on the action of the PSNI officer, or his 
reason for giving the caution  that would be a matter for Miss C to take up with the 
appropriate body. However, taking account of all the available evidence, and bearing 
in mind any suggestion of a caution being given was first raised four months after the 
RTC, I dont find the giving of the caution on its own to be indicative of any 
contributory liability on Miss Cs part, in this case.
When UKI provided its business file to our service it said: Weve assessed the 
likelihood of defending a non-fault claim and in light of the customers version of 
events we are satisfied the claim would result in a shared liability. UKIs case notes 
on the complaint state that they made the liability decision on day one, based on the 
information they had to hand. They didnt obtain a collision report from PSNI as they 
had no reference number for the accident and didnt feel it would have assisted their 
enquiries as UKI believed it was fully aware of the circumstances. UKI also 
maintained there were no witnesses to the accident.
However, as Ive explained, there was other evidence available for UKI to consider, 
in coming to its decision on liability. Although, very little evidence was readily 
available at the time the decision was made, that is, on the day of the accident. Given 
Miss Cs insistence that it was the driver a few cars behind her who had carried out a 
dangerous and reckless manoeuvre that had caused the RTC, I think it would have 
been reasonable for UKI to allow some time (in excess of a day) for evidence to be 
provided prior to making its decision on liability.
Overall, I dont think UKI completed a fair and reasonable investigation or 
assessment of the claim. It didnt seek a legal opinion which I think would have been 
helpful in this particular case given the circumstances. And, it made no attempt to 
contact any witnesses or obtain a copy of the police report on the investigation, which 
again, I think would have been helpful.
Given the time thats passed since the RTC occurred, its not possible to know what 
would have happened if UKI had carried out a better investigation. However, its 
possible that UKI might have been able to successfully defend the claim. For these 
reasons, I think the fair and reasonable outcome for Miss C, given the particular 
circumstances of her complaint, is for UKI to record the claim as non-fault. That 
means that UKI should: record the claim as bonus allowed; refund Miss Cs excess; and restore any NCD. Due to the time shes been without the money, UKI should add 
interest to anything it refunds Miss C at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date 
she paid the money, to the date it makes payment.
Distress and inconvenience 
Ive next considered whether any compensation should be paid by UKI for the impact 
its actions have had on Miss C. The way UKIs handled Miss Cs claim has clearly 
caused her additional distress at an already upsetting and stressful time for her. 
Making a decision that it knew would lead to significant financial impact, and 
emotional distress, on the basis of very little evidence clearly increased Miss Cs 
distress. On the first notice of claim call, UKI said it sounded like Miss C hadnt done 
anything wrong and assured her that an investigation would be carried out and 
witnesses would be contacted. But neither happened. Instead, UKI sent Miss C a text 
message, out of hours in the evening, four working days after the crash to confirm 
that it had accepted thirty percent liability for the RTC. This undoubtedly caused Miss 
C further distress, which was highlighted by the emotion expressed by Miss C during 
the call she had with UKI the following morning.
Overall, the way UKI have handled Miss Cs claim shows it failed to take account of 
the significant impact the accident had on Miss C, and its actions caused her 
additional distress. In addition, UKI said Miss Cs personal effects could be collected 
from her car, but then proceeded to sell the car with her possessions remaining 
inside. Her father eventually tracked her possessions down, but again, this action 
increased the upset Miss C was suffering at this time. Taking everything into account, 
Im intending to award Miss C £500 for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused by the way UKI has handled her claim.
I said I intended to uphold Miss Cs complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to change 
the records on databases, including CUE to bonus allowed, restore Miss Cs NCD, 
reimburse her excess, together with 8% interest, and pay Miss C £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
UKI responded to say it accepted the provisional decision. However, UKI did take issue with 
any suggestion that either witness could be regarded as independent and it maintained that 
Miss Cs employer didnt see the accident. 
Miss Cs representatives, T, confirmed acceptance of the provisional decision, on her behalf. 
However, they requested that I consider increasing the compensation award to cover her 
legal costs, which Miss C says she was required to incur as a result of the approach UKI had 
taken to handling her claim. 
As both parties have responded to the provisional decision, I consider it appropriate to now 
issue my final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the comments made by the parties in response to the provisional 
decision.
I would like to clarify, for UKI, that I dont consider the witness statements to be independent 
as they were given by Miss Cs father and employer. However, the point I was trying to make in the provisional decision was that in the absence of any other evidence, their statements 
provided some information about what had likely happened, which I took into account. I also 
agree that Miss Cs employer didnt see the accident take place, but I note that he was there 
shortly afterwards so I consider he was able to provide some useful information about the 
situation at that time. 
Ive considered Miss Cs request for increased compensation to cover the legal fees shes 
incurred in relation to the claim. However, Im satisfied that Miss C didnt need to instruct 
solicitors to deal with the claim, and Im not persuaded that doing so made any difference to 
the outcome. In the final response letter, under the heading: Next steps UKI said: 
You also have the right to appeal our decision through the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Making an appeal is free but you must do it within 6 months of this letter. 
Im therefore satisfied that Miss C would have been aware that we offer a free service to 
consumers who are in dispute with financial institutions. Consequently, Im satisfied that in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, UKI should not be required to reimburse Miss C for 
her solicitors fees. 
For the reasons given in this decision, and the provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require U K Insurance Limited to take the actions, and pay the awards detailed below.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Change the records on databases, including CUE (the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange) to bonus allowed to reflect how its treating the claim;
Restore Miss Cs NCD;
Reimburse the balance of the excess paid by Miss C in relation to the RTC;
Add interest to the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. (If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss C how much it has taken off and 
provide a tax deduction certificate if required); and
Pay Miss C £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience shes been caused by 
the way its handled her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to take the 
actions and pay the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman