DRN-3219451
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr K bought a home insurance policy through Barclays. A few months later, Mr K made a 
claim on his policy because he was burgled. The insurer would only pay £10,000 for 
valuables because this was the maximum amount specified in the policy. A couple of months 
after the burglary, Barclays sent Mr K an email because it had realised that some of the links 
to documents it had previously provided werent working properly. It re-sent some of the 
documents.
Mr K complained to Barclays. He said due to mistakes made by Barclays, he didnt have the 
correct valuables limit in place. He said he hadnt been able to access his account online 
and that he also hadnt received documents by post. After he had made the claim, Barclays 
had also sent him the insurance documents because it had found a system error that meant 
not all documents could be viewed previously. 
When Barclays replied, it said the maximum sum that valuables could be insured for, in any 
instance, was £20,000. It said the standard amount it offered for valuables was £10,000 and 
Mr K could then have changed this up to a maximum limit of £20,000. Mr K also had the 
chance to check the quote again before accepting it. It said although Mr K was later sent an 
email re-sending some of the pre-contract information where the links hadnt been working 
properly, this didnt include an issue with the information about the valuables limit.
When Mr K complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he thought 
the online wording was clear that the default sum for valuables was £10,000. Mr K had also 
been sent the policy documents in the post, even if he was unable to access some of them 
online. Our investigator said he hadnt seen anything to indicate that the policy had been 
mis-sold.
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr K has also complained about how the claim was settled. The claim itself 
was dealt with by the policy underwriter, which is a separate business to Barclays. That 
complaint will be looked at separately.
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. So, Ive looked at what happened when Mr K bought the policy.
Mr K applied for the policy through Barclays mobile app. Im aware that Mr K thought he had 
insured his valuables for £50,000. Ive also seen a screenshot that Mr K provided that said 
Contents cover was Unlimited. However, Barclays has confirmed the maximum amount 
Valuables could be insured for was £20,000 and that the online application process 
defaulted the amount to £10,000, which was the amount Mr Ks valuables were insured for.
Ive looked at the online process to buy the policy. The online form asked Mr K to complete 
various details. In the Valuables at home section, this said: Our standard policy covers 
valuable up to £10,000. Select a different amount if you want to increase. There was then a 
drop-down menu that allowed the amount to be changed from £10,000 to another amount, 
up to a maximum of £20,000.
Near the end of the sales process, the app included a screen that said:
Youll need to receive some important information, including the Insurance Product 
Information Documents before you can buy this insurance. We can email these so you can 
read them straight away. If you like, we can also send a copy in the post
The process later had a section headed Terms and conditions agreement and required Mr 
K to confirm he had received the documents. These documents included the policy 
document and the Insurance Product Information Document. Mr K also had to agree to a 
statement that said I have access to the Policy document that has full details off all the 
covers Ive chosen in order for the sale to continue. If Mr K decided to continue with the 
sale, either without having received the documents or without having read them, I dont think 
that was down to the actions of Barclays.
Mr K has also said that following the claim he later made, he received an email from 
Barclays saying there had been a problem with opening some of the documents provided in 
the pre-contract information. Based on what Barclays has said, this didnt include and issue 
with the documents that showed the level of cover Mr K had. Im also mindful that Mr K 
agreed to proceed with the sale and confirmed he had received all of the information before 
doing so. 
Mr K was also sent the documents in the post. Im aware Mr K has said he didnt receive the 
posted documents, but from what Ive seen the documents were printed and sent to the 
correct address. Im aware these documents were sent by the underwriter, rather than 
Barclays, due to the arrangement in place for sending policy documents by post.
Mr K has also said he tried to contact Barclays to say he had problems opening the 
documents. Ive seen evidence of Mr Ks phone contacts with Barclays and none of these 
were about this issue. Barclays records also showed Mr K had said that although he had an 
issue with opening the documents, he hadnt contacted Barclays because he was busy. If I 
accept what Mr K has said, which is that he tried to phone Barclays because he knew he 
couldnt open some of the documents, he wasnt under any obligation to agree to any of the 
statements saying he had received the documents or to buy the policy. However, given Mr K 
chose to do so, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclays was responsible for this. 
So, thinking about the above, Im satisfied that Barclays sales process only allowed 
valuables to be insured for a maximum of £20,000. Although Mr K said he thought his 
valuables were insured for £50,000, Barclays didnt provide that level of cover and I havent 
seen anything that shows Mr K was provided information to show his valuables were insured 
for that amount. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr K left the 
valuables amount at the default of £10,000, which is why he was insured for that amount 
when he later made the insurance claim. I also think that although there was an issue with opening some of the documents, Mr K didnt need to agree to the terms and conditions 
statements and buy the policy at that time. Having agreed to buy the policy anyway, Mr K 
could also have followed up afterwards to check the level of cover met his needs.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint, as I havent seen evidence to 
show the policy was mis-sold. As a result, I dont require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman