DRN-2377363
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was mis-led about her annual mileage allowance under an 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.  
What happened
In March 2019 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS.
Miss H thought she had a mileage allowance of 15,000 miles a year. She says the only 
documents she was provided with after entering into the agreement referred to 15,000 miles. 
When she received a finance statement advising her that her annual mileage allowance was 
10,000 miles, she contacted MBFS and sent to the documents she had.
When Miss H chased MBFS for a response to her query, she was advised on the telephone 
that there was an error on the finance statement and that her annual mileage allowance was 
15,000 miles.
Miss H thought the issue was resolved. But she later received an email from MBFS advising 
her that her annual mileage allowance was 10,000 miles.
Miss H tried to call MBFs several times to discuss the email. She eventually spoke to an 
adviser who told her that her finance agreement had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 
miles. Miss H said shed never been provided with her finance agreement. She complained 
to MBFS. 
In response MBFS said the finance agreement stated that the annual mileage allowance 
was 10,000 miles. It said the documents Miss H had sent in was a Service Care Plan, which 
wasnt linked to the finance agreement. It said that Miss H had previously been sent a copy 
of the finance agreement and pre contract information, and that she had signed this 
electronically on 26 March 2019. 
Miss H wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. She feels 
that shes received poor customer service and wants MBFS to increase her annual mileage 
allowance at no additional cost.
Our investigator said the agreement clearly stated that the annual mileage allowance was 
10,000 miles. But he also said that when Miss H first raised her concerns with MBFS, she 
had been misadvised on the phone, and that her calls hadnt been returned when they 
should have been. The investigator said that MBFS should pay compensation to Miss H.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that although the customer service agent had given incorrect 
advice, this hadnt financially impacted Miss H and she already had the correct information in 
her possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This clearly states that the annual mileage allowance 
is 10,000 miles. Miss H has signed the agreement electronically to confirm  that she agreed 
to be bound by the terms. Because of this, I think Miss H ought to have been aware of the 
annual mileage allowance. Im satisfied , based on the finance agreement and the pre 
contract information which accompanied it, that the annual mileage allowance is 10,000  
miles and that Miss H ought reasonably to have been aware of this.
I appreciate that Miss H is in possession of another document which refers to 15,000 miles. 
This document is a service plan, entered into with the supplying dealer. It is separate to the 
finance agreement with MBFS.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think MBFS has made an error with the finance agreement. 
It clearly states that the annual mileage allowance is 10,000 miles and Miss H has signed 
the agreement.
That said, I think MBFS has caused unnecessary confusion and upset to Miss H. I say this 
because when Miss H first raised her concerns, MBFs advised her that the annual mileage 
allowance was 15,000. Ive noted MBFSs comments about this advice and I agree that it 
didnt have a direct financial impact on Miss H. But the incorrect advice wasnt the only 
customer service issue here. MBFS promised to call Miss H back but didnt do so. And I can 
see that when Miss H complained further, MBFS didnt reply to some of her emails. On 
balance, and whilst the incorrect telephone advice on its own wouldnt warrant 
compensation, I think the other examples of poor customer service elevate the complaint to 
a level where compensation should be paid. 
Putting things right
MBFS could have handled things better by calling Miss H back when it said it would and 
replying to her emails. Because it didnt do this, Miss H has had to repeatedly call MBFS. 
Shes provided records showing this. In the circumstances, Im of the view that MBFS should 
pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes  Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must pay compensation of £75 to Miss H.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman