DRN-3988731
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) dealt with a claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H contacted Admiral to send an engineer to repair their boiler. An engineer 
visited, bypassed the fan pressure switch and the boiler started working. However, it failed 
again shortly after. A second engineer visited and found a range of further issues including 
that seals had stuck to the case, the fan was tripping and some of the wiring had failed. Mr H 
and Mrs H had to pay £187.20 as the repair costs went over the policy limit.
Following this, the boiler failed again. Another engineer visited and found that the PCB had 
blown. Mr H and Mrs H said the first engineer had caused damage by over-riding the fan 
switch. So, Admiral agreed to fit a new PCB for free. This didnt fix the issue. Admiral 
decided the boiler was beyond economic repair. So, Mr H and Mrs H replaced their boiler.
When Mr H and Mrs H complained, Admiral said the first engineer had bypassed a safety 
feature on the boiler. It thought this was what blew the first PCB, which it had already tried to 
replace. However, it said it wasnt responsible for the wider system issues. The cylinder stat 
had failed, which it wasnt possible to connect to the actions of the engineer. It said, given 
the age of the boiler and multiple parts failing, it thought it was correct to say the boiler was 
beyond economic repair. It offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
the boiler failed a second time because of the actions of the first engineer. As the second 
visit went over the policy limit, Admiral should refund £187.20 that Mr H and Mrs H had to 
pay. She said Mr H and Mrs H were also left without hot water for 12 days before the boiler 
was declared beyond economic repair. So, she said Admiral should pay a total of £200 
compensation.
Admiral didnt reply to our investigators findings. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Admiral accepted that its engineer had over-ridden a safety feature on the boiler and that 
this led to the PCB failing. When a second engineer visited, Mr H and Mrs H were charged 
for work to the boiler over the policy limit. I dont think this was fair as the boiler failed due to 
the actions of the first engineer. So, I think Admiral should refund Mr H and Mrs H the 
£187.20 they paid for the work to be completed. I think Admiral should also pay interest on 
that amount as Mr H and Mrs H lost use of the money. Im aware Admiral later replaced the 
PCB free of charge, which I think was fair in the circumstances.
The boiler failed again and Admiral declared the boiler as beyond economic repair. Mr H and 
Mrs H have said Admiral was responsible for what they described as the catastrophic 
failure that led to them needing to buy a new boiler. So, Ive thought about this.
The boiler needed to be replaced because the cylinder stat failed. I havent seen anything 
that persuades me this was a direct consequence of the first engineers actions. Im also 
mindful that the boiler was about 18 years old, which I think makes it more likely that boiler 
issues would happen and that additional repairs would make it beyond economic repair. So, 
I dont think I can fairly say that Admiral was responsible for the boiler needing to be 
replaced and I dont require it to pay for a new boiler.
Mr H and Mrs H also said they were left without hot water for nearly two weeks. Admiral was 
asked to comment on this, but didnt provide any further evidence. From what Ive seen, 
when the first engineer left, Mr H and Mrs H did have hot water, but the boiler failed shortly 
after, due to the actions of the engineer. The boiler was declared beyond economic repair 
about 12 days later. So, based on the information available to me, I think the actions of 
Admirals engineers resulted in Mr H and Mrs H being left without hot water for this period of 
time. As a result, I think Admiral should pay Mr H and Mrs H a total of £200 compensation, 
which includes the £50 it previously offered, to reflect the impact on them of being left 
without hot water.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr H and Mrs H £187.20 for the costs they paid and interest on that 
amount. It should also pay a total of £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr H and Mrs H:
£187.20 for the costs they paid over the policy limit.
8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which they first made the claim to 
the date on which it is refunded to them.
A total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman