DRN-3069789
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) didnt reinstate the use of his 
credit accounts following a previous complaint.
What happened
Mr H had two credit accounts with Capital One that fell into arrears. Mr H arranged payment 
plans on these two accounts, but the scheduled payments stopped being made on both 
payment plans and the accounts were both subsequently defaulted. 
When Mr H learned that his accounts had been defaulted, he explained that hed undertaken 
a current account switch and that his bank hadnt switched the two standing orders that hed 
set up to make the payments on the payment plans. Mr H provided confirmation from his 
bank that this was the case, and so Capital One agreed to remove the defaults from Mr Hs 
credit file. However, Capital One didnt agree to remove the restrictions on his two credit 
accounts. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Hs complaint. But they noted that theyd never advised Mr H that 
they would remove the account restrictions so that the accounts could be used by Mr H, and 
they confirmed that they felt that they felt that the accounts should remain permanently 
restricted and that theyd be closed when Mr H cleared the remaining outstanding balances.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that there was 
no record of Capital One telling Mr H that hed be able to use his accounts again, and they 
also felt that Capital One werent acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H by choosing 
to maintain the permanent restrictions on the accounts. So, our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mr H that Capital One accepted that the 
reason the payments for the two payment plans werent met was because the standing 
orders that Mr H had set up hadnt been switched successfully by his bank during a current 
account switch, and that Capital One had removed the defaults from his credit file because 
of this but conversely not reinstated the use of the accounts.
However, I dont feel that it follows from the fact that Capital One did remove the defaults 
from his credit file that Capital should necessarily also reinstate the two credit accounts in 
the way that Mr H would like here.
Its evident from the terms and conditions of the accounts that Capital One maintain the right 
to permanently restrict accounts if they choose to do so. The relevant clause of the terms 
and conditions being as follows:
As well as closing your account, we can also suspend, restrict or cancel use of your 
account. We may do this ifwe think theres a risk you might not be able to repay 
what you owe us.
Capital One have elected to implement that clause on this occasion and given that this 
clause is dependent on the risk on non-payment as perceived by Capital One, I dont feel 
that I can reasonably say that its unfair of Capital One to have done so. I feel that Capital 
One are entitled to perceive that such a risk exists here, given both that Mr H required 
payment plans on both of his accounts and also that the payments due on those agreed 
payment plans were missed.
And while I commend Capital One on accepting the information provided by Mr H regarding 
the unsuccessful switching of the standing orders and for ensuring that Mr H didnt incur any 
adverse credit reporting because of this, I also note that the responsibility for monitoring the 
ongoing standing order payments and ensuring that the agreed payment plans were met, 
ultimately rested with Mr H. And given that these payment plans werent met, I dont feel that 
its unreasonable for Capital One to perceive a risk here or that non-reinstatement of the 
credit accounts can be considered as being unfair.
Mr H has stated that he was told by Capital One that the payment plans would be reinstated. 
However, Ive reviewed all the information available to me, including listening to recorded 
telephone calls, and I havent seen or heard Capital One advising Mr H that his accounts 
would be reinstated or that he would be able to use the accounts again.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Capital One have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Capital One to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
Mt final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman