DRN-3044176
The complaint
Miss H has complained about how Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) dealt with 
a claim for her mobile phone under a gadget insurance policy.
  
What happened
Miss H contacted Assurant to make a claim because her mobile phone had a fault. Assurant 
provided Miss H with a replacement phone. However, Miss H contacted Assurant again 
because the replacement phone also had a fault. Assurant continued to replace the phone, 
but Miss H kept finding the replacement phones were faulty. When Miss H contacted 
Assurant again, she was told the warranty on the phone had expired.
When Miss H complained, Assurant confirmed the phone had been replaced several times. 
However, it said the phone was no longer within the warranty period.
So, Miss H complained to this service. While our investigator was looking at the complaint, 
Assurant accepted it made an error when it said the phone wasnt under warranty. It agreed 
to pay a cash settlement for the claim subject to Miss H providing a diagnostic report 
verifying the fault. Our investigator said Assurant should either accept a diagnostic report or 
arrange to collect Miss Hs phone and deal with any fault under the warranty. He also said 
Assurant should pay £100 compensation because of delays in processing the claim.
Assurant agreed to deal with the phone. However, it didnt agree it should pay any 
compensation. So, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Im aware that Assurant has already agreed to assess the phone under the warranty and 
that Miss H has both submitted a diagnostic report and agreed to return the phone to 
Assurant. I think that is a reasonable way to resolve that part of the complaint. The main 
issue for me to consider is whether Assurant should pay some compensation.
Ive looked at what happened during Miss Hs claim. Miss H needed to have her phone 
replaced a few times because the replacements Assurant sent her were faulty. Miss H said 
that when she spoke to Assurant she was told she would need to return her phone for it to 
be assessed. She said she had issues with doing this due to Covid-19 restrictions. Miss H 
said a manager also later phoned her to say the phones warranty had expired. When 
Assurant replied to Miss Hs complaint, that response also said the phones warranty had 
expired. Assurant later realised this was incorrect, as each replacement phone was covered 
by a new warranty. 
So, I think Assurant should pay £100 compensation because it gave Miss H incorrect 
information and, as a result, there was a delay in it considering whether there was a fault 
with the phone that would be covered by the warranty. 
  
Putting things right
Assurant must pay Miss H £100 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Miss H £100 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman