DRN-3212212
The complaint
Mr W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited turned down his private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy requires treatment to be carried out by a healthcare professional recognised by 
BUPA. 
On 25 January, Mr W contacted BUPA to obtain authorisation for a consultation which he 
had already arranged that day. He thought that the specialist he intended to see (Mr S) was 
recognised by BUPA, however BUPA couldnt find a record of Mr S. Mr W needed to end the 
call as he was going to his appointment with Mr S, but BUPA made him aware that if Mr S 
wasnt recognised, then he wouldnt be covered. 
Im satisfied that when Mr W saw Mr S, he knew the consultation hadnt been authorised by 
BUPA and that there was a risk that it wouldnt be if Mr S wasnt recognised.
At some point, Mr W learnt that Mr S wasnt recognised, as he later told BUPA that Mr S had 
told him thered been a dispute between him and BUPA over cataract fees. I assume it was 
during the appointment on 25 January that Mr S advised Mr W of this. 
Mr W later needed to see a consultant again, and so BUPA authorised a consultation with 
Mr D (who was recognised by BUPA).
Mr W then told BUPA he needed surgery, and had been recommended Mr S. BUPA 
confirmed that Mr S wasnt recognised, and advised him that it wouldnt cover the surgery, 
nor the hospital or anaesthetists fees. BUPA suggested that Mr W speak to his previous 
consultant to see if they could recommend someone else, but Mr W didnt want to do this.
As our investigator has explained, wed usually expect an insurer to offer to find a 
recognised specialist if the one an insured wants to use isnt recognised. BUPA didnt do so 
here. However, I think its apparent Mr W wanted Mr S to do the surgery, and didnt want to 
consider finding another specialist. I understand that Mr D was willing to do the surgery, and 
so Mr W couldve gone back to him if hed wanted to.
Mr S asked another specialist (Professor B) to assist him with the surgery a few minutes 
before the operation. Unfortunately, Professor B wasnt recognised by BUPA either. 
However, BUPA only learnt of Professor Bs involvement after the surgery had taken place, 
so it wasnt able to advise Mr W in advance that Professor B also wasnt recognised. 
As BUPA had previously recognised Mr S and Mr W had been to see him before, Mr W 
thinks BUPA ought to have told him at his renewal that Mr S was no longer recognised. 
However, I wouldnt expect BUPA to have done this. Mr W wasnt having treatment with 
Mr S at the time, and BUPA wouldnt have known that Mr W may need future treatment or 
that he would want Mr S to carry out that treatment.
Mr W says the policy terms only say treatment isnt covered if the specialist isnt recognised, 
and he thinks this should only cover the work carried out by the specialist. He thinks BUPA 
ought to therefore pay the hospital fees.
The policy terms say that all treatment must be carried out in a recognised facility in the UK, 
and provided by a consultant, medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is 
recognised by BUPA for the treatment needed. 
Therefore, whilst the hospital may be a recognised facility, as the treatment wasnt carried 
out by a recognised specialist, that means it wasnt covered. 
Overall, whilst I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration that BUPA didnt recognise Mr S or 
Professor B, Im satisfied that BUPA dealt with the claim in line with the policy terms.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman