DRN-4063579
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained about the renewal premium charged by Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) for their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G complained to Admiral about the renewal premium they were charged. They 
said the large increase in premium wasnt justified. When Admiral replied it explained some 
of the factors it took into account when calculating a premium. It also said Mr G and Mrs G 
werent obliged to accept a renewal quote if they didnt want to do so.
So, Mr G and Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Mr G and Mrs G had been treated fairly based on the underwriting criteria and in the 
same way as other customers in the same circumstances.
As Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree the premium increase was fair, the complaint was referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
An insurer is entitled to decide how to assess the risks covered by a policy and to decide 
how much it will charge to provide cover, including when it renews a policy. This can mean 
that a premium can change at renewal and that different insurers charge higher or lower 
premiums than each other for similar cover. So long as an insurer has treated a consumer 
fairly and consistently with other consumers, this service would normally consider that was 
reasonable.
When Admiral responded to Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint, it explained some of the factors it 
took into account when it calculated the renewal premium. These included personal details, 
address, the claims history, the cost of inflation and the cost of dealing with claims. It also 
explained why a claim Mr G and Mrs G made that was later declined was still relevant, which 
was because a loss had still happened and was part of their claims history. Admiral also 
noted that its rates could change because of factors such as an increase in claims in the 
policyholders area or with other people who shared similar information to the policyholder. 
So, Admiral explained the type of information it took into account and that these could affect 
the renewal premium. I dont think there was anything unusual about the information Admiral 
considered when it calculated the renewal premium.
I have also looked at the underwriting information Admiral provided to this service. This 
showed how it rated elements of the policy. I havent seen anything in the information that 
showed Admiral treated Mr G and Mrs G differently to how it treated other customers in 
similar circumstances.
Im aware Mr G and Mrs G also spoke to Admiral about the renewal premium and Admiral 
agreed to reduce it. So, Mr G and Mrs G actively engaged in the renewal process, even if, 
overall, they didnt think Admiral should have increased the premium by the amount it did.
Mr G and Mrs G have said they renewed the policy because of the amount of time it took 
Admiral to deal with their claim, which was later declined. However, they werent required to 
do this for their claim to continue to be considered. The renewal quote also said: You have 
been with us for a number of years You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at 
a better price if you shop around. So, Admiral explained that Mr G and Mrs G might be able 
to get a better price elsewhere. 
Having considered this complaint, I dont uphold it or require Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman