DRN-2489945
The complaint
X is complaining about the redress offered in respect of the mis-sale of a whole of life policy 
by a predecessor business of Phoenix Life Limited. Hes represented by a claims 
management company (CMC).
  
What happened
In 1992, Phoenix recommended and sold a whole of life policy to X. This included life 
assurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The initial sum assured was £62,890 but this 
reduced significantly to around £22,000 when the policy was reviewed in 2002, and reduced 
again at later reviews in 2007 and 2017.
The CMC complained to Phoenix. They said X was only interested in CIC at the time of the 
sale, that no alternatives were discussed with him, and that the adviser didnt ask how long 
the cover was needed for.
Phoenix looked into the matter and said it would have been more appropriate for X to take 
fixed term CIC for 31 years (to the expected date of Xs retirement) rather than life 
assurance. But, they said, fixed term CIC with a sum assured of £62,890 would have cost 
£30.24 per month whereas X was paying £30 per month. And they said the policy had a 
surrender value of around £5,700. So, they said although they were upholding the complaint, 
no compensation was due to X. 
The CMC brought Xs complaint to us. They said Phoenix should refund the premiums X had 
paid, less the surrender value and the cost of CIC. And they said Phoenix should allow the 
whole of life policy to continue.
Our investigator didnt think this was an appropriate solution because it didnt reflect what 
would have happened if the policy hadnt been mis-sold. He said X should choose between 
paying for fixed term CIC with a sum assured of £62,890 until his expected retirement in 
2023, or keeping his current policy. He noted that if he kept his current policy, X would have 
a much lower sum assured (around £15,000) but would have the option to cash in his policy.
Phoenix agreed to offer X the reconstructed policy our investigator suggested and accepted 
our investigators view. But the CMC said theres no evidence that X would have wanted CIC 
only to the expected retirement age of 65. They said the documentary evidence shows that 
X wanted cover for life. The CMC referenced a case previously decided by an ombudsman 
and said that Phoenix should do the same as theyd done on that case. Because our 
investigator and the CMC couldnt reach a resolution the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise this may be a disappointment to X, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator and Ill explain why below. In making my decision, Ive not considered the 
CMCs reference to previous decisions as our service decides each case on its individual 
circumstances and merits.
Phoenix have acknowledged that the whole of life policy was mis-sold. And I can see from 
the sale documents that X told the advisor at the time that his priority was CIC. The 
documents show that he had life assurance in place already, and that he had a good 
pension and also some savings. So Im satisfied that X wanted CIC but didnt need any other 
financial protection at the time of the sale.
When considering redress, I need to try to put the consumer in the position hed have been 
in if things hadnt gone wrong  in this case if the product hadnt been mis-sold. Based on 
the information available, Im satisfied that X would likely have bought a fixed term critical 
illness policy up to the expected date of his retirement in 2023. I appreciate the CMC says X 
wanted whole of life cover but my understanding is that whole of life CIC wasnt offered in 
the market at the time. So this wouldnt have been an option for X. The intention of CIC is to 
provide some protection against a loss of income arising from an illness which is so critical 
as to prevent a person from working. For example, the policy actually sold to X says: 
Permanent disablement is such that prevents or will prevent the Life Assured from carrying 
out any gainful occupation  It follows that CIC wouldnt normally be needed after 
retirement and I cant see anything in the sale documentation to suggest that this would have 
been any different for X.
In respect of the sum assured, the policy was set up: on a maximum cover basis for a sum 
assured of £62,890 at a premium of £30 level. The documentation is silent on why these 
specific amounts. Given that the premium was a round sum amount and the sum assured 
wasnt, it seems to me that X wanted as much cover as he could get for £30 per month. Im 
satisfied that hed have made the same decision when choosing the premium and sum 
assured for a fixed term CIC policy. 
Phoenix have said that a premium of £30.24 per month would have paid for a fixed term 
31-year CIC policy with the same sum assured. Of course, its impossible to know what a 
consumer would have done given different information and different choices but Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable to say X would likely have opted for this policy  paying around £30 
per month for a sum assured of £62,890 up to the date of his retirement.
Putting things right
From what Ive set out above, it follows that I think its fair for Phoenix to put X into the 
position hed be in if that was the case  which would mean cancelling Xs existing policy 
from inception and putting in its place level term CIC with a sum assured of £62,890, to the 
date of Xs expected retirement, charging him £30.24 per month for the policy.
However, Im conscious of putting X in a worse position. I note that Xs existing policy likely 
has a surrender value of a few thousand pounds (subject to change). It may be that X no 
longer wants CIC and would prefer to keep the existing policy or cash it in. So its for X to 
decide which option hed like to take.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. If X confirms hed like to take up the option, Phoenix Life 
Limited need to reconstruct Xs policy, cancelling his existing policy from inception and 
putting in its place 31-year level term CIC with a sum assured of £62,890.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman