DRN-2776891
The complaint
 Mr T complains that he rang Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) and asked them to cancel a 
payment to a holiday company. They confirmed they had, but in fact they hadnt.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds accept that it incorrectly told Mr T that it had cancelled a payment scheduled to be 
made to a holiday company in March 2020. In fact, the payment went through because it 
was part of an instalment payment plan Mr T had set up with the holiday company some 
time earlier. Lloyds had told him that the payment was what is known as a CPA (Continuous 
Payment Authority) when it was not, and that was why it could not be cancelled. 
Mr Ts statements show a payment was made on 21 February and it was after that, on 16 
March, when Mr T rang Lloyds trying to stop the 21 March payment. 
But even if Lloyds had told Mr T what the correct position was, vis a vis stopping the 
payment, Lloyds have said it would still have been unable to stop the payment going out, 
because the payment was not a CPA. That is not disputed by Mr T. So, in one sense Mr T is 
in no worse a position because of the incorrect advice. 
However, since our investigator gave his view, Mr T has indicated that had he known of the 
true position, he would have cancelled his card to prevent the holiday company from taking 
payment. Mr T did in fact raise this when he made his call to Lloyds, so Im satisfied that on 
balance, he probably would have taken such a step. 
But even if he had taken that step Ive also considered whether it would have stopped the 
holiday company from taking the agreed payment from his account, whether or not it was 
closed. Lloyds view is that if Mr T had cancelled his card, there was no guarantee this would 
have prevented the transaction from going through given the above and because the 
account remained open and there was an outstanding balance to be paid.
On the evidence I am satisfied that if Mr T had been given the correct advice, he would in all 
probability have closed his account. Had he done that, I do not think the payment taken on 
the 21 March would have gone through. That would not have relieved Mr T from his 
obligation to pay the holiday company, it would only have meant that he did not have a debt 
of the same amount to Lloyds. 
As Mr T has had the benefit of the holiday he bought he has no loss, so I do not consider 
that it would be fair to require Lloyds to reimburse Mr T with the payment which went out. 
Where Lloyds made an error is in giving Mr T the wrong information, and it has accepted 
that. 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 March and Lloyds have replied stating that they agree 
with it. Mr T also replied and does not agree expressing his views once more. But, there is 
nothing contained within his comments which causes me to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
 Lloyds has already paid Mr T £75 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
 Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid Mr T £75, so my final decision is that I dont require it to 
do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman