DRN-1417284
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that his credit file was seriously impacted after entering into a payment plan 
with Santander UK Plc. He also complains he received text message alerts, which caused 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 August 2020 - a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold Mr J's complaint in part and how I thought Santander 
should resolve it. I said:
"What happened
Mr J held a graduate current account with Santander, which he opened around three years 
ago while at university. He had an arranged overdraft facility of £2000 on this account, 
which he was using.
In February 2019 Mr J credited £250 to his account. But Santander said no further 
payments credited his account after that date. So, it referred his account to its Collections 
and Recoveries department, which sent him text messages and letters asking him to contact 
it because his account was in arrears and needed to be brought up to date.
As Mr J didnt make regular payments to his account or respond to Santanders 
correspondence it removed his overdraft facility. And, on 23 May 2019, it wrote to him to 
explain he was now in an unarranged overdraft of almost £2000, which required payment in 
full within ten days.
Mr J contacted Santander on 28 May 2019 in response to the correspondence it had sent. 
And he entered into a payment plan. Mr J said Santander informed him that the repayment 
arrangement he set up with Santander him wouldnt impact his credit file. He said Santander 
explained that this would only happen if his account were to default  at which point hed be 
given 30 days notice. But he later found out that his credit file was impacted during June 
and July 2019 because Santander had recorded information about how hed been managing 
his account with credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mr J was unhappy that Santander had reported to CRAs when it told him it wouldnt. And he 
said after he entered into the payment agreement it persistently sent him text alerts 
reminding him to pay money into his account in order to avoid any fees. Mr J was upset by 
these text alerts because he was told, due to the financial hardship he was 
experiencing, fees and charges would be waived. So, he complained.
When Santander responded to Mr Js complaint it explained that when he had entered the 
pay down agreement it had told him that as his account was overdrawn it would show on his credit file. And it explained to him that if this was left long term it could lead to a default 
being registered. It therefore didnt think it had made an error or uphold his complaint.
As Mr J remained dissatisfied with Santanders response to his complaint he referred it to 
our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr J and 
Santander. Overall, they were persuaded Santander had done enough to make Mr J 
reasonably aware of how a payment plan would impact his credit file. And they didnt think 
Santander had made an error in reporting how Mr J had managed his account to CRAs. 
They therefore didnt uphold these aspects of Mr Js complaint.
Our investigator commented that they felt that receiving text message alerts would have 
been distressing for Mr J and asked Santander pay £50 compensation to reflect the impact 
that had. But this wasnt a recommendation by the investigator, who concluded their view by 
stating that they wouldnt be asking Santander to do anything further. Mr J disagreed with 
our investigators view of his complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But in their view they 
commented on the distress and inconvenience the text message alerts Mr J received would 
have caused. And they stated I ask that Santander issue Mr J with a £50 compensation 
payment for any distress and inconvenience caused by the text he received. I am satisfied 
this offer is fair and in line with our approach to compensation.
Our investigators comments here are incompatible with them not upholding this complaint. I 
say this because theyve suggested an outcome that wasnt offered by Santander when it 
attempted to resolve Mr Js complaint. I also dont think the view our investigator gave was 
clear  they didnt tell Santander it needed to pay compensation to resolve this complaint  
merely that theyd ask it to. And I haven't seen any evidence that Santander agreed to pay 
the compensation our investigator asked it to.
For these reasons set out above I think the fairest way to proceed here is by way of a 
provisional decision. This will enable both Mr J and Santander to understand the decision 
Im intending to reach and have the opportunity to respond to any issues with which they 
disagree.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr J experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My 
role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Mr J unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right.
I can see Santander sent Mr J correspondence, dated 29 March 2019, which stated that he 
hadnt made a payment and that hed need to bring his account up to date. Santander also 
informed Mr J in this letter that if he wanted to retain his overdraft facility hed need to credit 
his account with funds on a regular basis.
Mr J didnt respond to this letter. So, further correspondence was sent to him during April 
2019. Again, Santander explained that Mr J would need to start making payments into 
his account if he wanted to ensure his overdraft facility wasnt removed. 
When Mr J failed to respond Santander wrote to him on 2 May 2019 to explain that as he 
hadnt made payments to his account it had restricted his account usage. And six days later it sent him correspondence informing him that if he didnt make a payment by 18 May 2019 
it would remove his arranged overdraft facility, which would mean the outstanding balance 
would become payable.
Based on the letters Santander sent Mr J Im satisfied it informed him it would remove his 
arranged overdraft facility in the absence of payments to his account. Mr J hasnt told our 
service that he didnt receive Santanders correspondence. And I can see they were 
addressed to him at his registered address. This is the same address as the one thats been 
given to our service.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Santander wrote to Mr J on 23 May 
2019 to inform him that it had removed his overdraft facility. It explained that, as his account 
was now in an unarranged overdraft by almost £2000, this would require payment within ten 
days. The letter told Mr J to contact Santander to set up a repayment plan if he wasnt able 
to afford to repay the amount owed immediately. And it advised that Santander shares 
information about how a customer is managing their account with CRAs, which could affect 
Mr Js ability to obtain credit in the future.
I cant fairly find that Santander made an error in removing Mr Js overdraft facility given the 
absence of payments and responses from him. The terms and conditions of Mr Js account 
entitle Santander to take such action. And, in offering him time to pay the outstanding 
balance and explaining that his credit file might be impacted by how he was managing his 
account, Im satisfied Santander acted fairly.
I can see that Mr J contacted Santander to set up a payment plan on 28 May 2019. Ive 
listened to the call recording Santander provided our service and Im satisfied that Mr J was 
told during this call that an overdrawn account would be reported to CRAs. Santander also 
explained that if his account remained overdrawn on a long term basis this could lead to a 
default being registered. Im therefore persuaded that Santander made Mr J aware as to 
how entering a payment plan would impact him.
On 29 May 2019 Santander wrote to Mr J confirming the details of his payment plan. I can 
see this letter states please note that we send information about your account to credit 
reference agencies and this may affect your ability to get credit in the future. Im satisfied 
this reaffirmed the information Santander had already provided to Mr J about CRA reporting.
At the end of July 2019 Santander wrote to Mr J  again informing him that it intended to 
report information about how he was managing his account to CRAs. It gave him a further 
opportunity to pay the balance of his unarranged overdraft in full.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that that Santander made Mr J aware on 
numerous occasions that information about how he was managing his account would be 
reported to CRAs. So, I cant fairly find he wasnt warned that his credit file would be 
impacted.
I appreciate that Mr J wants me to tell Santander to remove this information from his credit 
record. Hes told our service that his credit score has been severely impacted and hes 
experienced difficulties in obtaining credit as a consequence.
But, while I understand the information Santander recorded will affect Mr Js credit score for 
some time, Im satisfied that its reported information about how he was managing his 
account properly. So, its complied with its duty to make sure that the information it reports 
to credit reference agencies is accurate. Ill explain why.Here, Santander reported that Mr Js account was in arrears during June and July 2019. Mr 
J said he didnt miss any payments. But based on what the evidence Ive seen from 
Santander, and Mr Js credit report, Im satisfied that what Santander reported was that his 
account was in arrears due to payments not being received as required. Santander has also 
recorded that Mr J was in a payment plan arrangement from August 2019, which is correct. 
No default has been registered as Mr Js account wasnt defaulted.
As what Santander has recorded is a true reflection of what happened I cant say it acted 
unfairly and unreasonably. Im satisfied it reported information about how Mr J was 
managing his account properly. So I cant ask it to remove or change the information it 
recorded.
Im not minded to uphold Mr Js complaint that Santander recorded information with CRAs 
about how he had managed his account for the reasons set out above. But I am inclined to 
uphold his complaint about the text alerts he received from Santander, which reminded him 
that in order to avoid fees and charges hed need to continue to make payments to his 
account. Ill explain why.
It appears, based on the evidence available, that these alerts were automated. However, 
their content was factually incorrect and misleading to Mr J. This is because Santander had 
already agreed to suspend charges and fees in view of the financial hardship he was 
suffering and in line with its duties to treat a customer in difficulties positively and 
sympathetically.
I can understand why receiving text messages might have been useful to a customer in 
different circumstances. But, given Mr Js financial circumstances and the position he found 
himself in, I appreciate why receiving text alerts that warned him about charges and fees 
caused him distress and inconvenience. And I think its fair for Santander to compensate Mr 
J for the trouble and upset he was caused.
Our investigator asked Santander to pay Mr J £50 compensation. Im satisfied that this is a 
fair amount of compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr J 
wouldve been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I 
would have told Santander to pay. I appreciate that Mr J may want Santander to pay more. 
But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. 
So, my provisional decision is that Santander should pay Mr J £50 to resolve this part of his 
complaint."
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
In Mr Js response to my provisional decision he stated he didnt agree with the decision I 
was intending to reach. He said he was informed his credit file would be unaffected by him 
entering into a payment plan. And he explained how the information Santander had 
recorded with CRAs had impacted on his professional and personal life. He said hes always 
placed importance on his credit score. So, he thought what had happened was unfair.
Mr J also stated that he didnt always receive the correspondence Santander sent him due 
to him as he'd lived in a number of different places while at university. He said this all 
happened during a time when his life was incredibly busy and when he was struggling 
financially. But he accepted it was his responsibility to update his address with Santander.
In Santanders response to my complaint it said it would be unfair for it to pay £50 
compensation to Mr J because it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It disputed what Mr 
J had told our service about the frequency and nature of the text messages he had received. And it provided a copy of the text messages it had sent Mr J from the time his 
account entered Collections and Recoveries until the time he brought his complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Mr Js assertion that he was informed his credit file would be unaffected by 
him entering into a payment plan. 
In my provisional decision I explained that I had listened to the call recording Santander 
provided our service from the date Mr J contacted it in order to set up a payment plan. 
Ive listened to that telephone call again but remain persuaded that Santander clearly told 
Mr J that an overdrawn account would be reported to CRAs and if it remained overdrawn on 
a long term basis this could lead to a default being registered. 
The correspondence Mr J was sent prior to, and following, that telephone call also explained 
Santander shares information with CRAs, which could affect Mr Js ability to obtain credit in 
the future. Mr J has now stated that he didnt always receive the correspondence Santander 
sent him due to him having lived in a number of different places while at university. But he 
also accepted it was his responsibility to update his address with Santander. And I cant 
fairly hold Santander responsible for any error on Mr Js part in not updating his contact 
details.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I still believe Santander took reasonable steps to make him 
aware that entering a payment plan would impact his credit file.
I dont doubt the importance Mr J said hes always placed on his credit score. And I'm 
sympathetic as regards how the information Santander has recorded with CRAs has 
affected his credit score, which has caused difficulties in his personal and professional life. 
But that isnt a reason for me to ask Santander to remove or change the information 
reported. 
As I explained in my provisional decision Santander has accurately reported information 
about how Mr J was managing his account. And this means I cant fairly find it acted unfairly 
and unreasonably.
In the complaint Mr J brought to our service he said he was upset by receiving daily text 
message alerts from Santander. He said the text alerts were factually incorrect and 
reminded him to pay money into his account in order to avoid paying fees, which Santander 
had already agreed to waive.
Santander has responded on this point by providing a copy of the text messages it sent Mr 
J. It says theres no reference to fees and charges in the alerts that Mr J received. This is 
evidence our service previously hadnt seen. With that in mind Ive reconsidered whether the 
text messages Mr J received would have been likely to have caused distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr J said he received almost daily text messages from Santander informing him that he 
must credit his account with funds in order to avoid paying fees and charges. But from the 
evidence its sent our service, I can see that, after Mr J entered into his payment plan with 
Santander, it sent him three text message alerts over a two month period. I dont think that 
was excessive and I can see the text messages were simply payment reminders. They dont contain any information about fees and charges being applied. So, Im not persuaded theyd 
have caused Mr J the distress and inconvenience he initially suggested. It follows that Im 
not going to ask Santander to pay compensation. And this means Im departing from what I 
said in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17September2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman