DRN-2845815
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of his late mothers estate, complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (trading as LV) mishandled his legal expenses insurance claim and 
provided poor customer service.
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
LV uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance policy and manage 
claims, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons Ive 
set out below.
I note that several of Mr Ms concerns centre predominantly around the quality of advice and 
service provided by the panel solicitors appointed by LV. But as the investigator has already 
highlighted, LV is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert 
dealing with the case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in 
light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably, 
and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of legal advice (unless it 
is patently wrong) or the actions of a law firm as this falls under the remit of the Legal 
ombudsman, whom I understand Mr M has referred a separate complaint about the 
solicitors.
In terms of the insurers handling of the claim, Mr M submits that LV has acted unfairly 
because it didnt allow him to choose his own solicitor and instead appointed its own panel 
solicitor. I appreciate that Mr M had already sourced legal representation, but the policy 
terms and conditions state:
You have the right to choose your own legal representative to represent you if it is 
necessary to take your claim to court or if a conflict of interest arises.
This policy term is consistent with Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal 
Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990 Regulations), which provide a 
policyholder with the freedom to choose their own solicitor only in certain circumstances:
(1) Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person).
(2) The insured shall also be free to choose a lawyer (or other person having such 
qualifications as may be necessary) to serve his interests whenever a conflict of 
interest arises.
At the time Mr M made his claim, there was no legal inquiry, and nor had any proceedings 
been issued. Ive also not been made aware of any conflict of interest, so he would not have 
been entitled to choose his own solicitors at this point. Therefore, I do not consider LV has 
acted unfairly by saying that Mr M would have to appoint one of its panel solicitors (Firm D) 
in the first instance. 
Mr M submits that LV failed to adequately manage the solicitors and monitor their 
performance, including how, when and where they were using their time and resources. But 
it is not the insurers duty to manage the solicitors in this way. Panel solicitors are 
independent from the insurer and have their own professional codes of conduct and 
regulatory standards theyre required to adhere to. They are under an obligation to ensure 
the legal costs incurred are reasonable and necessary. So it would neither be reasonable, 
nor practical, to expect a solicitor to have to seek approval from the insurer for every bit of 
work completed of every billable hour they charge. Neither would it be reasonable to expect 
LV to oversee and manage every aspect of the solicitors work, as the insurer and its 
intermediaries are not the legally trained professionals tasked with assessing the legal claim 
and taking it forwards. The solicitors are appointed by LV to take on the legal claim, but they 
will ultimately be instructed by, and will act on behalf of, the policyholder. So, I cannot fairly 
hold LV responsible for an alleged failure to manage Firm D as the appointed panel solicitor.
The insurer is, however, entitled to receive updates from their panel solicitors with regards to 
the claims progress, which I can see LV did chase for and receive on various occasions, so 
I dont consider it has failed to monitor progress of the insurance claim in this respect. I 
wouldve also expected LV to have raised any concerns Mr M had with the solicitor, but Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest that he did report any such concerns that the insurer has 
failed to broach with Firm D. 
Mr M is also unhappy because he considers LV has created ambiguity surrounding who is 
managing which aspects of his claim. However, the policy document makes it clear that the 
legal expenses section of the insurance policy is managed independently on our behalf by 
Arc Legal Assistance. So, I think its clear which party will be managing the insurance claim. 
The policy document also sets out the situation with regards to who will be providing the 
legal services:
We have chosen a panel of legal firms to provide legal services to our customers. 
There is nothing in our relationship with our panel legal firms which affects their 
ability to act in your best interests. If your claim is accepted, a legal representative 
from our panel will be appointed to act for you.
The policy definitions also set out who the legal representative is under the policy:
Our panel legal firm appointed by Arc, or their agents, to act on your behalf
So, having considered the policy terms and conditions, I do not consider there to be any 
ambiguity with regards to which party is responsible for what under the policy. Arc Legal are 
acting on behalf of LV as its agent, and the insurer is ultimately responsible for any acts or 
omissions of Arc as its principal. And, as Ive already set out, neither LV nor Arc can be held 
responsible for the acts or omissions of the solicitors as they are not acting on behalf of the 
insurer.Finally, I also understand that Mr M is unhappy with being told that his claim does not have 
sufficient prospects of success and/or is disproportionate to pursue (despite previously being 
told by Firm D that there were prospects). I appreciate that Mr M may not agree with 
Firm Ds legal assessment of his claim. But as it stands, I havent seen that Mr M has 
submitted a more favourable assessment to show that his claim does have sufficient 
prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue. Its also not unusual for a prospects 
assessment to change from positive to negative throughout the duration of a claim in light of 
further information.  
Generally, our service considers it is fair for an insurer to rely on the advice of appropriately 
qualified legal professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the legal advice 
provided was patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. 
However, there is nothing in this case to suggest that the legal advice was patently wrong, 
so theres currently no basis on which to conclude that LV has acted unreasonably by relying 
on it to decline the claim. 
So, given that the panel solicitors concluded that Mr Ms claim does not hold reasonable 
prospects  and given that he has not submitted any alternative legal opinion to show 
otherwise  Im satisfied that LV has fairly declined his claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that LV has done substantially wrong in these 
circumstances, so I will not be directing it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M  on behalf 
of his late mothers estate, to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman