DRN-4337800
The complaint
Mr R has complained to Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited about bonuses on his 
Flexible Income Annuity (FIA). Hes also unhappy with the service received since Scottish 
Friendly took over his plan from MGM.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive not detailed the history 
and surrounding correspondence in full. Instead, Ive summarised what has happened 
below.  
Mr R took out a FIA plan in 2010. The plan was originally held with MGM but Scottish 
Friendly took the plan over in 2015. Since October 2021, Mr R has been in correspondence 
with Scottish Friendly regarding concerns about the Lifetime bonus only increasing 
marginally since the plan started and concerns about Scottish Friendly failing to 
acknowledge and respond to his correspondence.
Mr R tried to resolve the above concerns directly with Scottish Friendly but he was not 
satisfied with the responses received, or the £50 compensation it had offered him for the 
delay in responding to him. So Mr R referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt uphold Mr Rs concerns about the 
bonuses. The investigator also thought the offer of £50 for the delay in Scottish Friendly 
responding to Mr R was fair, given the detailed nature of the enquiries hed made. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators finding and provided further comments and calculations 
in support of his arguments. The investigator reconsidered matters but maintained his view. 
This position was ultimately endorsed by another investigator.  
Summary of the investigators findings 
 Lifetime bonus
The investigator thought it was clear that, given the intricate nature of the calculations and 
the amount of times that they require review, it would be unfeasible for Scottish Friendly to 
have to provide these. The decision to decrease the bonus could have been based on years 
of data with each period containing various data points. 
Within the terms and conditions document it does not state that the business would disclose 
the actuarial assumptions used within the calculation but that it would follow their advice. It 
also confirms that the rates are not guaranteed and, as such, The investigator didnt think 
Scottish Friendly needed to provide calculations or to justify any fluctuations in the bonus 
rates.
The calculations Mr R has provided are based on his own assumptions; not on the actual 
basis the calculations are completed by Scottish Friendly actuaries.  But in any event, this 
Service doesnt provide an auditing service of calculations.
When Scottish Friendly took over from MGM in 2015, Mr R received a welcome letter. This 
explicitly said the terms and conditions of the policy had not changed, so the investigator 
thought the plan was still subject to the same review process as it was under MGM. 
The investigator didnt think there was evidence that MGM/Scottish Friendly guaranteed Mr 
Rs income would increase over time. The Lifetime Bonus is just one element of the policy 
and its not guaranteed. The documentation provided during the sale was not misleading and 
theres no evidence that MGM/Scottish Friendly mis-sold the policy. In fact, it was sold by 
another firm (Firm A). MGM, now Scottish Friendly, is the product provider not the seller. 
 Delays in responding to Mr Rs concerns
In terms of the delays associated with Mr Rs requests, Scottish Friendly had acknowledged 
that it did not meet its standards. But Mr R didnt think the offer of £50 from Scottish Friendly 
was sufficient for what he considered to have been poor service, particularly when compared 
to the £350 Mr R received in 2019 for another service issue. 
The investigator agreed the service couldve been better but thought Scottish Friendly had 
acknowledged and apologised for the poor service. 
 FIA plan holders mutual membership status 
The investigator didnt think concerns about changes to FIA plan holders mutual 
membership had formed part of Mr Rs complaint to Scottish Friendly and so it wouldnt now 
be appropriate for this service to consider these without Scottish Friendly having been given 
the opportunity to do so before our involvement. However, the investigator noted that the 
2015 Scottish Friendly welcome letter confirmed that Mr R will continue to benefit from 
being part of a mutual life organisation. 
The investigator also explained that it may be that where Mr Rs membership now differs 
from MGM, is with regards to who is able to attend AGMs. The Scottish Friendly website 
explains how this now works and that some delegates can attend AGMs. The website also 
confirms that full details of the nomination process, deadlines, elections and eligibility 
restrictions are available on request from the Secretary of Scottish Friendly.
Mr Rs response to the investigators opinions
Mr R didnt accept the conclusion both our investigators reached. In his final submission to 
this service he continued to raise concerns about the Lifetime bonus. And hes provided 
further explanation around his own calculations. He has also said that Firm A relied on 
MGMs documentation when selling the plan. He provided a copy of the Customer 
Brochure he received, which he says does not contain any mention of Actuaries nor 
adjustments to the Lifetime Bonus due to changes in life expectancy, in particular hes 
referred to pages 9 and 16 which refer to the Lifetime Bonus. 
Mr R also says that he wasnt sent a copy of the Terms and Conditions document until 2015, 
and even then, it had a print date of several years after he took the plan out. He says he 
should have been sent the correct terms and conditions at the time of the sale. He thinks this 
was misleading and constitutes mis-selling of the original product.
Mr R says he is getting increasingly concerned about the more wide-spread poor customer 
service provided by Scottish Friendly. If is allowed to mis-calculate plan holders bonuses then substantial moneys that should have been paid out to plan holders have not been 
distributed properly. 
The complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr R that despite only summarising the background to the complaint and all 
the surrounding correspondence above, I have considered everything that has been 
provided by both parties in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this matter. But 
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigators in terms of Mr Rs 
concerns about the Lifetime bonus. But I think Scottish Friendly needs to do more in terms of 
the customer service Mr R has received so Im upholding the complaint, in part. Ive 
explained my findings below.
Bonuses
The crux of Mr Rs complaint relates to the Lifetime bonus. It seems Mr R understands and 
accepts that the bonuses on his plan werent guaranteed, but hes disappointed its only 
increased marginally since the plan started. 
I think I should start by clarifying what the Lifetime bonus is. As Mr R will be aware, the Key 
Facts document from the time he took his FIA plan out states, (on page 10) When Flexible 
Income Annuity policyholders die, the part of their fund that remains after all benefits are 
paid is pooled and shared amongst the surviving Flexible Annuity policyholders. We call this 
the lifetime bonus [bold is my emphasis]. 
Mr R says that Scottish Friendly hasnt acknowledged the existence of this paragraph in its 
correspondence. So he thinks it would be fair to assume that it hasnt been including these 
funds in its calculation of the Lifetime Bonus. But Mr R is mistaken here. I do appreciate that 
later policy terms dont explain the Lifetime bonus in the same way. But I can confirm that 
the Lifetime bonus is made up entirely from funds remaining after an FIA plan holder dies, 
subject to any spousal benefit or guarantee that may be on the plan. This has been 
confirmed by Scottish Friendlys Actuarial Team. 
But as explained in the Key Facts, and Terms and Conditions documents, the Lifetime 
Bonuses are calculated on a basis set by the Actuary. The level of Lifetime bonus will 
depend on the death benefits the individual plan holder has chosen, as the cost of providing 
these benefits is met by a reduction in the bonus. These documents also explain that 
Lifetime bonuses are reviewed from time to time depending on annuitants life expectancy. 
The assumptions Scottish Friendly Actuaries use are not straightforward. Scottish Friendlys 
assumptions are based on many factors. Further details about these assumptions are 
provided in the 2015 terms and conditions. These state: 
We will take into account changes in external published mortality tables, projections and 
other relevant sources of information, our experience across similar policies, changes in health and healthcare and other valid reasons that affect our view of future mortality that are 
outside our control and could not have been reasonably foreseen. 
There is no minimum or maximum change to the lifetime bonus rates.
I do accept that these terms are from several years after Mr R took his plan out. Ive only 
referenced them here because they give a better explanation of the assumptions than in 
previous documents. 
Mr R doesnt think that sales material he was supplied with contained any mention of 
Actuaries nor adjustments to the Lifetime Bonus due to changes in life expectancy. But I can 
see that the Key Feature document from September 2009, does state the following under Q9 
(page 10):
Our Lifetime bonuses are reviewed from time to time and in future they could be higher or 
lower than we estimate in your illustration. If we believe annuitants are living longer than we 
originally thought, the lifetime bonus will be lower
Given the above, I think it was clear the lifetime bonus would be reviewed and adjusted 
dependent on assumptions as to plan holders life expectancy. And again, similar wording 
appeared in the terms and conditions document dated November 2009 on page 16, under 
point 19. I do accept that the Customer Brochure doesnt mention that the bonuses will be 
reviewed. But it does refer to the Key facts document for further information on the bonuses. 
And as Ive said above, Im satisfied the Key Facts document made this clear. 
In his most recent correspondence to this service, Mr R has provided a further analysis of 
the bonus he has received, following receipt of his most recent statement. He has reiterated 
his belief that Scottish Friendly is not treating the Lifetime Bonus calculation correctly. In 
particular, he doesnt understand how this bonus is not considerably higher during the past 
few years of the Covid pandemic, which he considers killed many more people in the 
pension age group yet the Lifetime Bonus has stayed virtually static at 0.7%.
I do understand why Mr R has concerns. The way bonuses are declared on these types of 
plans has attracted criticism for their lack of transparency, and I accept that it is very difficult 
for policyholders to satisfy themselves that they have received what they are entitled to 
under the terms of their investments.
But Scottish Friendly is accountable to the industry regulator, the FCA, for the way in which it 
operates its with-profits fund. The regulator monitors this. Firms are required to appoint a 
with-profits actuary and the FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. 
Scottish Friendly also has an independent With-Profits Committee whose remit is to protect 
the interests of the with-profits policyholders and ensure that they are treated fairly. 
I appreciate that Mr R has put a lot of work into his own calculations and that in doing so he 
has used his own assumptions. But this Service doesnt have the same expertise as the 
Actuaries Scottish Friendly uses to calculate its bonuses. So we are not in a position to 
check either his own or a business calculations of bonuses.  And Im not aware of the FCA 
having any concerns about the way in which Scottish Friendly is calculating its bonuses. 
Mr R said that his main concern was the fact that Scottish Friendly (and indeed MGM 
originally) have not been addressing the Lifetime Bonus shortfalls payable to clients, and 
have been pocketing vast sums of profit as a consequence. However, Ive seen no evidence 
to support these allegations. So Im not upholding this part of his complaint. Mis-sale concerns
Mr R has raised concerns because he says the main driver for him taking the plan was the 
Lifetime bonus. I hope now that I have explained that the Lifetime bonus is entirely made up 
from funds remaining after an FIA plan holder dies, this will put Mr Rs mind at ease in terms 
of these particular concerns. 
But if not, and he still has concerns about how the plan was sold, he will need to direct these 
to the firm that sold the plan, Firm A. I appreciate Mr R feels Firm A relied on MGMs/Scottish 
Friendlys literature. But I agree with our investigator, I dont think the literature was mis-
leading.  It explained how the bonuses work, that assumptions would be made about life 
expectancy by MGM/Scottish Friendly when calculating bonuses and that they werent 
guaranteed. It also explained that these assumptions would be made by actuaries. It was the 
responsibility of Firm A to ensure it made Mr R aware of how the plan worked. 
Full Mutual Membership status
I know Mr R is disappointed that he hasnt been able to attend AGM meetings since Scottish 
Friendly took over MGM. And that he no longer receives copies of the annual accounts 
through the post. He believes this means there has been a change to his full mutual status 
since Scottish Friendly took over from MGM.
Scottish Friendly is still a mutual society but as our investigator explained, it may be that 
there have been some changes to Mr Rs ability to vote and attend AGMs. I can see that our 
investigator provided Mr R with details of how to find out more information and details of his 
local delegate.
Mr R believes these concerns were raised in his letter dated 1 March 2022. Scottish Friendly 
doesnt have a record of this letter being received but I can see that Mr R has provided proof 
of this letter being delivered. So I think on balance it was likely received. Having said that, I 
dont think it was clear from this letter that Mr R had specific concerns about his ability to 
attend AGMs or that under MGM he received copies of the annual accounts by post. This 
letter references a change to his mutual status and changes to the terms and conditions 
regarding the bonus. 
If Mr R still wishes his specific concerns about attendance at AGMs and receiving the 
accounts by post to be considered, he will need to refer these issues to Scottish Friendly in 
the first instance. If he remains unhappy after receiving Scottish Friendlys response on 
these points, he may be able to refer these matters to this service. However, I should explain 
that in terms of the transfer in business between MGM and Scottish Friendly, and any 
resulting changes to Mr Rs mutual status membership, these were commercial decisions 
that a business is entitled to make. And the transfer of business was approved in the High 
Court. So our Service would not be in a position to comment on these decisions. We may be 
able to consider how any changes were communicated. But before we can do that, we need 
to be satisfied Scottish Friendly has had the opportunity to consider these concerns.  Annual charges
In his most recent correspondence to this service Mr R raised additional concerns about the 
annual charges on his plan. He says these seem to be much higher than when the plan was 
with MGM.  This is a new concern that Mr R has raised and as explained above, before we 
can comment on this point, we need to be satisfied Scottish Friendly has had the opportunity 
to consider it. So Mr R will need to raise any concerns he has about the annual charges on 
his plan directly with Scottish Friendly.
Customer Service issues
Mr R has raised concerns about the general customer service he has received since 
Scottish Friendly took over from MGM. And I know hes concerned about reviews hes read 
online.  I can only comment on the complaint in front of me; its not for me to comment on 
Scottish Friendlys general customer service. 
In terms of Mr Rs complaint, Scottish Friendly has acknowledged and apologised for the 
delays in acknowledging and responding to his correspondence and its offered him £50 
compensation. 
Mr R doesnt think this is enough and hes referenced a previous complaint he made in 2019 
where he received more compensation. But that complaint wasnt referred to our service so I 
dont know the details and why Scottish Friendly felt that particular issue warranted more 
compensation.
Having reviewed what happened here, I can see that it took Scottish Friendly until 10 
February 2022 to acknowledge Mr Rs letter dated 22 November 2021 (although this 
acknowledgement was only received by Mr R on 1 March). And Scottish Friendly provided 
its full response on 15 March 2022, more than 15 weeks after Mr Rs letter was received. 
Because Mr R hadnt heard anything from Scottish Friendly, he called and wrote further 
letters and I think this additional inconvenience and further frustration could have been 
avoided, had Scottish Friendly acknowledged the letter when it was first received and 
explained that due to the nature of Mr Rs questions, it would need longer than its usual 5 
days to respond.
Scottish Friendly has already offered Mr R £50 for the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
But as explained above, its clear this matter has caused Mr R additional frustration and 
inconvenience. I think Scottish Friendly should pay Mr R pay an additional £150, so £200 in 
total, as this more accurately reflects the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly should pay Mr R pay an additional £150, so £200 in total, for the 
inconvenience and frustration caused by the delays in acknowledging and responding to his 
correspondence.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman