DRN-2281361
The complaint
Mrs As complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office (BOI) relates to 
their errors in opening a Cash ISA account for her in March 2020.
What happened
Mrs A tried to open a Cash ISA (ISA) in branch with BOI. She took her identity documents 
with her but was incorrectly told these werent needed. She was intending to invest 
£17,000 in the ISA. In fact, her identity documents were required but by the time they were 
asked for Mrs A had missed the deadline for opening the ISA for that tax year.
BOI accepted they gave the wrong advice and offered to compensate Mrs A on the basis 
of paying her what she would have earned by way of tax-free earnings had she invested 
the money in the ISA over 5 years. They offered £425 which she rejected as she thought 
her loss was much greater.
Mrs A was unhappy with BOIs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there was 
certainly an error by BOI, the amount of compensation BOI offered was fair and in her 
view enough to put things right.
Mrs A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts of this complaint are that BOI made an error in failing to correctly 
advise Mrs A about the opening requirements for an ISA. As a result, Mrs A missed the 
opportunity to open the ISA for that year. I do empathise with Mrs A and know that she 
must be terribly upset, since she had taken the time and trouble to make sure she had 
everything ready and was well prepared.
It is therefore without question that BOI should consider compensating Mrs A for their 
mistake and I am pleased to see that they have taken a step in that direction by making 
her an offer. As Mrs A does not agree that the sum offered is sufficient, the issue is now 
about the level of compensation.
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, it tries to 
place a person back in the position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened. Sometimes, as is the case here, that isnt 100% possible, because its 
impossible to retrospectively open the ISA. But it is possible to try and see what would 
have happened had the ISA been opened. Of course, there are many uncertainties about 
future events, and so it cannot be said with certainty what would have happened.
BOI have come up with a calculation based upon four factors, although there are 
others which might also be considered. BOIs factors were;
a. Mrs As tax status wouldnt change;
b. ISAs would remain available, with the same benefits;
c. It would be reasonable to expect a savings rate of 2.5% gross a year; and
d. Taking into account that the money could be reinvested.
Beyond these factors it is possible that Mrs A could have closed the ISA within weeks or 
months of opening it. I have no evidence to suggest she would have done that, but equally I 
have no evidence to say how long she would have kept the investment in the ISA. 
Presumably there would come a point when she might have wished to use the money 
invested in the ISA. If the ISA had been closed and the money spent within a short period of 
time of it being opened, then quite obviously Mrs A would not have obtained the longer-term 
benefits from it being invested in the ISA. I can anticipate that Mrs A might say she would 
not have spent the money in that ISA for a very long period of time, but the point I am trying 
to make is that nobody knows what life might throw up and when one might need to use 
savings. That is just one other factor by way of example, and another might be Mrs A 
deciding to invest the money elsewhere at some point after she had opened the ISA. If she 
had done that it would have changed the returns she would have made on her money. She 
might have done better than having the money in the BOI ISA, or she might not.
Again, the point I am trying to make is that in attempting to work out what would 
have happened involves some degree of speculation.
BOI have made their offer based on their four factors and then calculating what Mrs A 
would have earned on a tax-free basis over 5 years. They have used an interest rate of 
2.5% and that has to be viewed against the current base rate of 0.1%. BOI have said that 
they used 2.5% because that was their most favourable rate.
But just because it is their most favourable rate doesnt mean I am bound by that. What is 
important is to try and achieve a fair resolution. It will always be arguable that the 
calculation could over a shorter or longer period, or for a slightly lower or higher interest 
rate. I know Mrs A argues that inflation might increase, and she may very well be right. 
Equally given the current economic circumstances it may remain low for a very long time.
In my view I think BOI have taken a reasonable approach to trying to place Mrs A back in 
the position she would have been in. Had the £17,000 been invested 2.5% would be a very 
reasonable return in the current financial climate. The compensation offered is based on the 
tax relief element at 20% which again is fair. The five-year period, I think is also reasonable 
when taking account of the imponderable nature and duration of the investment.
So, although Mrs A will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst BOI did 
indeed make a significant error, I cant say BOIs method of calculating the compensation 
is unfair. It is a fair way of achieving a reasonable.
My final decision
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office has already made an offer to pay Mrs A 
£425 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is 
that it should pay Mrs A £425.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
Jonathan Willis
 
Ombudsman