DRN-2277782
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited hasnt completed 
the repair to his car after he claimed to replace the locks and replace the keys after he lost 
them.
What happened
Mr M holds a motor insurance policy with LV. Unfortunately, Mr M lost his keys, so he made 
a claim to LV to get them replaced and to replace the locks on his car.
LV accepted Mr Ms claim and replaced the keys and the locks on his car. But it said it 
couldnt programme the new keys to his car. It said upon inspection it found the control unit 
had corroded due to water getting in from the underside of the car. It said it wasnt willing to 
repair this because it thought the damage was caused by wear and tear, which was 
excluded from the policy.
Mr M disagreed and complained to LV. He thought the damage to the control unit should be 
covered as it was an electrical issue which he thought was covered by the policy. He also 
complained that it took LV three months to come to its decision not to pay his claim and 
thinks the damage and water ingress could have been caused while his car was in LVs 
care.
LV maintained its stance, it said it wouldnt normally look to control unit as it wouldnt be 
needed. It said it was only when the keys couldnt be coded that it needed to look further. 
And its said when it did, it found the unit corroded as it had been sat in water that had 
collected under the seats of Mr Ms car.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Ms 
complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought the likely cause of the damage to 
the control unit was caused by wear and tear so thought had LV acted fairly and in line with 
Mr Ms policy when it declined his claim and didnt continue with repairs. She also thought 
LV took a reasonable time to investigate the issue and let Mr M know of its decision.
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr Ms policy says if his keys are lost or stolen LV will pay for their replacement and pay for 
all the locks to be replaced. In this case, I can see thats what LV did. It replaced Mr Ms 
keys and the locks on his car. But it ran into difficulty when trying to programme the new 
keys to his car.
LV looked into this and found the control unit under the seat sat in water. When it looked 
further, it found the control unit corroded. Its engineer thought this was because water had 
entered the area, most likely from the underside of the car and that this had gradually 
caused corrosion to the circuit boards. LV said that based on this, it wouldnt be repairing or 
replacing the control unit as Mr Ms policy didnt cover him for damage caused by wear and 
tear.
Mr M is unhappy with the amount of time LV took to reach its decision and thinks that its 
caused unnecessary delays and could have even caused the problem with his cars control 
unit. While its not impossible that the corrosion occurred while Mr Ms car was in LVs care, I 
find it highly unlikely. Corrosion happens gradually over time, and I find it unlikely to have 
occurred within the six weeks LV had Mr Ms car. I think whats more likely is the water 
gradually built up in Mr Ms car, and over time this caused the control unit to corrode.
Its clear in Mr Ms policy that damage caused by wear and tear is excluded, and his policy 
also excludes mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer failures. Although I think its 
likely the damage to the control unit was caused gradually over time, I dont think it can be 
reasonably classed as wear and tear. But I find it reasonable to class it as an electrical, 
electronic or computer failure. Based on this, Im satisfied LVs decision not to repair the 
corroded control unit reasonable, and in line with Mr Ms policy. I can see LV didnt charge 
Mr M an excess and that it offered to move his car to another garage to continue the repair, 
and I think both these gestures are fair in the circumstances.
Looking at what happened throughout this claim. LV inspected Mr Ms car three days after 
he reported his keys lost, and parts were ordered a week after that. Once the parts arrived, 
LV discovered it couldnt programme Mr Ms keys to the car, and on further inspection found 
water under the seats and the control unit corroded. I can see it tried to inform Mr M of this 
by telephone just over a month after ordering the parts before following up six days later in 
an email. With all this in mind I dont find the timeframe  roughly six weeks -  LV took to 
inform Mr M of its decision not to replace the control unit unreasonable. And as mentioned 
above, Im satisfied that decision was reasonable and in line with Mr Ms policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman