DRN-3330507
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint concerns the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to 
refuse a total and permanent disability claim made under her term assurance policy.  
To resolve her complaint, Mrs H wants her claim to be backdated and paid in full. 
What happened
Mrs H took out her policy in February 2012. It offered level life and critical illness cover of 
£24,499 for a nine year term. The policy ended in February 2021. 
She first made a claim to L&G in February 2020. Mrs H has two issues which cause her 
debilitating symptoms affecting her everyday life  those are fibromyalgia and a bowel 
condition; the former was diagnosed in May 2019 and it has caused the bowel symptoms.    
In April 2020, Mrs H lost her longstanding employment in the public health sector due to her 
ill health; she had been off work on sick leave since early 2019.  
Mrs H therefore returned to L&G to pursue her claim. She said her condition was worsening 
and would remain that way for the rest of her life. She explained that the impact of her ill 
health meant she was struggling to carry out hygiene needs. It also affected her sleep, her 
memory, getting in and out of a car, climbing stairs and shopping due to pain and fatigue.  
In June 2021, L&G agreed to assess Mrs Hs claim, but it could not send an assessor to her 
because of the outbreak of COVID-19. So, it undertook an assessment based on both Mrs 
Hs medical records and those from her employment relating to her ill health retirement. 
Unfortunately, it took several months for L&G to receive the relevant information from the 
employer, and several further months before the GP evidence was released to L&G. This 
was finally supplied in February 2021.  
In April 2021, L&G said it could not accept the claim. It noted that in late 2020, Mrs H was 
being considered for loop ileostomy surgery. It felt this may have an impact on the 
permanence of her disabling symptoms.   
L&G also said that the evidence it had seen did not show Mrs H was permanently unable to 
perform any of the listed Functional Assessment Tests (FAT) in the list of six set out within 
her policy terms. To satisfy a claim, Mrs H would need to be unable to perform three or more 
of the listed FATs.  
Specifically, L&G said Mrs H had explained how she had been able to occasionally drive to 
her elderly parents to assist with shopping. And because of Mrs Hs need to have to go 
upstairs to her bathroom up to twenty times per day, L&G said she was able to complete 
walking, bending, and climbing FATs. All three FATs would have to be met as Mrs H 
accepted she could undertake the other three FATs (those being communication, reading 
and writing) without any restrictions.    
Mrs H complained, but L&G was not willing to change its view on the outcome of the 
complaint. It did agree that it had not met the standards it should have in respect of its 
customer service, and for that it agreed to pay £300 to Mrs H.  
Mrs H referred the complaint to this service. She said that having to get all the relevant 
information to L&G before the policy ended had caused her a great deal of stress and 
anxiety. She explained that her need to undergo multiple daily rectal irrigations rendered her 
unable to have any form of social or active life outside of her home. She felt L&G had failed 
in its claim process, by failing to have a proper independent assessment undertaken.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said there was very limited evidence medically, and certainly no evidence to 
show that Mrs H wasnt able to meet at least three of the work tasks under the policy terms. 
So he couldnt conclude L&G had been unfair to say the definition wasnt met at any time 
before the policy ended in February 2021.  
Mrs H said she did meet the three FATs of walking, climbing, and bending. She said she 
cannot walk without stopping because of discomfort, she cannot bend to pick up items 
without the help of her daughter or a grabbing tool, and she often is too unwell to climb stairs 
 instead having to remain on one floor all day. She said that she wanted an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.  
L&G said it had no further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Mrs Hs disability and I send her my best wishes. I can see that 
things have been particularly hard for her given her incapacity and following her parents 
having passed away in 2021.  
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I recognise this will be upsetting for Mrs H but I will explain my reasons below.  
I do not doubt Mrs Hs explanation of her conditions and the significant impact these have. 
But, sadly, a policyholder ceasing work or experiencing symptoms that impact daily activities 
doesnt mean a claim is automatically payable. 
The policy Mrs H held did not offer income protection  so it couldnt simply pay out where 
the policyholder is too ill to work. It offered cover in the event of death or a listed critical 
illness. Unlike some of the other critical illnesses listed on the policy, TPD was not payable 
upon diagnosis of the underlying condition(s) that Mrs H may have. It was based on when 
L&Gs medical officer agreed that the disability meant Mrs H wasnt able to undertake 
specified common employment tests, and importantly, that this will be the case permanently.
In Mrs Hs policy, these tests are called FATs. To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be 
met in full. Under Total and Permanent Disability it says:
" b) Functional Assessment Tests Disability Criteria
Immediately before the onset of disability, if the life assured is:
not in gainful occupationin gainful occupation and the functional assessment tests disability criteria, is 
shown in the policy schedule under the occupation definition section, in the event 
of a claim the sum assured will be payable if all of the following conditions apply:
a) the life assured suffers through illness or accident a mental or physical 
irreversible disability,
b) in the opinion of our Medical Officer the life assured is permanently unable 
to perform without the direct assistance of another person, three or more of 
the functional assessment tests listed below:
Walking: The ability to walk a distance of 200 metres on flat ground with or 
without the aid of a walking stick and without stopping or experiencing 
discomfort.
Bending: The ability to get into or out of a standard saloon car and the 
ability to bend or kneel to pick up an object from the floor and straighten up 
again.
Climbing: Having the ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs without 
stopping or suffering severe discomfort.
Communication: The ability to answer a telephone and to take a 
message.
Reading: Having the required eyesight (corrected if necessary) to be able 
to read a daily newspaper.
Writing: Having the physical ability to write legibly using a pen or pencil 
without aid."
Neither party disputes that Mrs H can complete the last three tasks set out in the definition 
above. To satisfy a TPD claim under the policy, there needs to be objective evidence that 
Mrs H cannot complete the walking or bending or climbing tasks as specified and 
unaided (by another person) and that this will remain the case permanently.
It must also be the case that the evidence which would satisfy this definition must apply 
before February 2021  so even if it is retrospective evidence, it will need to show at that 
time that Mrs H would be permanently unable to complete the three FATs.    
I recognise that Mrs H has told both our investigator and L&G how she cannot perform the 
three tasks and has not been able to do so since before the policy ended. And I do not 
disbelieve her. But, because the policy requires agreement from L&Gs Medical Officer, to 
satisfy the claim there would need to be some type of objective evidence from a medical 
professional referencing Mrs Hs permanent inability to complete these mobility tests.  
Having looked at both her occupational health and medical records, I can see why L&G has 
concluded that there isnt any sufficient evidence to support the level of disability Mrs H 
describes being likely permanent before February 2021. The Occupational Health Physician 
assessment which led to Mrs Hs medical retirement did confirm she could not return to work 
in any capacity. That was understandably sufficient to terminate Mrs Hs employment. But it 
wasnt the same test for the policy terms Ive given above. In that context, the Physician said 
(in January 2020):
it is really unfortunate that she is yet to receive the treatment for her bowel 
problem and I wonder whether you can give her some more time and space 
so that she can access her treatment; and
I am hopeful that after achieving stability she might be able to resume working 
in the health care setting with sensible restrictions (such as permanent
relocation to a [type of workplace] rather than remaining in the community.
      I realise Mrs H has not been able to undergo surgical options as her attending colorectal 
consultant confirmed to Mrs H how although a stoma would bypass your bowel and it may 
benefit some of your symptoms I am not sure it will necessarily relieve all and may add to a 
completely different set of symptoms. But, there is no other available demonstrable 
evidence of the impact of the symptoms on Mrs H, before February 2021, such that it could 
be otherwise said that she met the three FATs. And, though climbing and bending may not 
be a feature of returning to work in some type of healthcare setting  it is unclear how the 
prospect of a workplace role wouldnt involve walking to the extent within the FAT above.   
I realise Mrs H feels unhappy that she was not offered the opportunity of an independent 
medical examination (IME) which is a route open to insurers to gather information needed 
to assess the validity of TPD claims. Though this service can make recommendations to 
insurers to undertake such assessments where we may feel it is appropriate, this will depend 
on the specific facts and circumstances of a complaint. I note this was made more difficult for 
Mrs H in the situation where at the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, medical 
assessments in policyholders homes could not be offered.   
In Mrs Hs case, she is understandably affected in a significant way by the bowel symptoms 
she experiences as a result of her fibromyalgia. And she has been left in circumstances 
where those symptoms are hugely detrimental to her quality of life. I do not doubt that, but 
aside from her reporting of the impact of her conditions, there isnt any supporting medical 
evidence as to the effect on the three walking, bending or climbing tasks.  I cannot 
conclude on this basis that L&G was unfair in assessing the claim in the absence of an IME. 
It was able to reach an assessment of the claim outcome based on the information it had.   
The definition set out above is a high threshold to meet. This is true of TPD definitions 
generally  it is not specific to L&G, but instead, set out as suggested wording by the 
Association of British Insurers in model wordings for such policies. These types of TPD 
cover measure policyholders against their inability to perform occupations or undertake 
functional activities such as the six provided for within Mrs Hs policy terms.  
To successfully make a TPD claim, there needs to be evidence of permanency as well as - 
in the case of work tasks - the insured person being unable to perform the FAT in question 
by themselves and therefore needing the help or supervision of another person to do so.  
From the information Ive seen, L&G was reasonable in concluding that Mrs H can perform 
the three FATs (albeit she does so with great pain and discomfort) as evidenced by her self-
reporting of her condition and the wider medical information which is available. The policy 
wording requires a policyholder to be permanently unable to perform three of the six defined 
FATs and the remaining three are not in dispute; therefore, the policy definition was not met 
and consequently a claim wasnt payable before the policy ended in February 2021.  
Mrs H remains free to provide further evidence of her measured inability to complete the 
three specific tasks to L&G to have another claim considered retrospectively, if the evidence 
showed she met the definition at an earlier point in time. This would be on the basis of new 
retrospective medical information looking at Mrs Hs circumstances ending in February 2021.  
Mrs H may wish to show this decision or the policy wording to an appropriate treating 
medical specialist. She also remains free to request an IME from L&G - but as Ive said 
above, that is a decision for L&G to make based on the information it receives. Mrs H would 
also not be prevented from bringing another complaint, should the circumstances require. 
As an aside, I recognise that there had been seven grounds of failings listed by L&G in terms 
of its administration and customer service handling of Mrs Hs claim. In my view, 
compensation was appropriate to award to Mrs H for these failings, and £300 was a fair amount in the circumstances of delays, the sending of misleading text messages and emails 
and the lack of verbal communication that Mrs H required. I believe it has already been paid 
to Mrs H, but L&G ought to forward it without further delay if the £300 remains outstanding.  
Otherwise, I dont find L&G to have unreasonably refused the claim.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Hs position, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman