DRN-1999285
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Abbey National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in September 1999. Mrs S 
and Mr S applied for the policy in a meeting, to cover their joint mortgage. The policy 
covered Mr S only against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The mortgage ended 
before April 2008.
Mrs S and Mr S say they wouldnt have taken or knowingly signed for PPI. They say PPI was 
never discussed. They think they were mis-sold the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S and Mr Ss case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mrs S and Mr S were given a choice to have the 
MPPI policy. I have been able to see a separate MPPI application form, along with 
looking at what Mrs S and Mr S has said about the sale.
When I consider the sales documentation that was used by Santander, I think its more 
likely than not they would have been presented with MPPI in the meeting and asked to 
sign the separate form. I can see that they did this at the bottom of the form.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs S and Mr S and Santander during the 
meeting. Its completely understandable that Mrs S and Mr Ss recollections are not 
detailed as the sale took place many years ago. And because of this and considering 
what I have seen in the sales documentation, I dont think the evidence is strong enough 
for me safely to say Santander didnt mention PPI or explain that it was an optional 
feature.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs S and Mr 
S or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mr S as the sole policy holder. On looking at the information 
provided, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr S.
I say this after considering Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although 
Mr S says he had sick pay (most likely 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay for a 
public sector employee) he could have used, the MPPI policy would have paid out if he 
was made unemployed or if he was sick in addition to his means. Having the policy in 
place would mean Mrs S and Mr S could use any provisions they may have had to cover 
other expenses. I dont think Mr Ss means are sufficient for me reasonably to say that 
he wouldnt have had a need for the policy. 
It is unlikely Mrs S and Mr S needed better advice or information about the policys other 
exclusions and limitations and if he had received clear information on these terms, I dont 
think it would have put them off.
 
Finally, I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but even 
if Santander did, I dont think Mrs S and Mr S would have done anything differently for 
the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman