DRN-3762989
The complaint
Mr B has complained about delays when he transferred his pensions with Aviva Life &
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to a different provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2022. Ive recapped here the background 
and my provisional findings. 
Mr B had two personal pension policies with Aviva (the ceding scheme) which arose out of
his membership of his former employers pension scheme. Mr B changed employers and he
wanted to transfer the two Aviva policies to his new employers pension scheme with another
provider (the receiving scheme). Mr B first contacted the receiving scheme in May 2020
about transferring. The transfer of one policy was completed on 16 December 2020 and the
transfer of the other on 5 January 2021. Mr B was unhappy with the time the transfers took.
Hes complained about both providers involved - Aviva and the receiving scheme. Ive set
out a timeline of Avivas key dealings with the receiving scheme and Mr B.
17 July 2020: Mr B telephoned Aviva. After getting put through to the correct department, he
told Aviva the receiving scheme had sent an information request on 12 June 2020. Aviva
said it had no record of that. The call handler produced policy information letters and transfer
forms.
20 July 2020: The call handler emailed the policy information and transfer forms to Mr B.
12 August 2020: Mr B called Aviva about transferring out. He said hed been trying to do
that for the last two months and the receiving scheme had tried to contact Aviva multiple
times.
13 August 2020: Aviva sent transfer forms for both policies by post to Mr B.
29 September 2020: Aviva received signed discharge forms for both policies in the post
from Mr B.
5 October 2020: Aviva received the receiving schemes letter of 1 October 2020 requesting
policy information and enclosed Letter of Authority (LOA). Aviva says this was the first
contact from the receiving scheme.
13 October 2020: Aviva sent the information requested to the receiving scheme.
10 November 2020: Aviva wrote to Mr B saying it was unable to proceed with the transfers
as it still had outstanding requirements. In particular it needed a letter from the receiving
scheme confirming its details and that it was happy to accept the payment in respect of the
transfer.
4 December 2020: Aviva received an Origo transfer request (raised on 3 December 2020)
from the receiving scheme for one of the policies.
16 December 2020: The transfer was authorised and paid by BACS. Confirmation was sent
to Mr B. The transfer amount included £31.72 late transfer interest  as Ive noted below,
Aviva accepts there was a delay in processing the transfer and making payment.
17 December 2020: Aviva wrote to Mr B saying it couldnt proceed with the transfer of the
other policy as it had outstanding requirements.
24 December 2020: Mr B called to chase the transfer and was told Aviva was waiting for a
reply from the receiving scheme.
4 January 2021: Aviva received an Origo transfer request from the receiving scheme for the
other policy.
5 January 2021: The (second) transfer was completed and confirmation sent to Mr B.
In the final response letter sent to Mr B on 20 April 2021 Aviva accepted thered been a
delay in transferring one of the policies. Aviva had received the transfer request on 3
December 2020 but, due to human error, the policy wasnt transferred until 16 December
2020. Aviva asked the receiving scheme for information to calculate if Mr B had suffered a
financial loss due to the delay. It seems that information wasnt initially provided, despite
Aviva chasing several times. Aviva said, once it had the information, it would see if Mr B had
suffered any loss. Aviva sent a cheque for £100 for trouble and upset and a further cheque
for £100 because it had taken longer than eight weeks to look into Mr Bs concerns. Aviva
said thered been no delay in transferring the other policy.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He set out what he thought were
reasonable SLAs (service level agreements) as to the time that tasks shouldve taken. These
were as follows:
Send LOA or reply to an email: three working days
Request transfer of funds via Origo after customer confirmation: three working days
Send funds after Origo transfer request: three working days
Send information request or produce illustrations: five working days
Chase third party business if no reply: ten working days
Against that background the investigator set out the time line he thought shouldve applied:
22 May 2020: Mr B returned the LOA to the receiving scheme
27 May 2020: the receiving scheme shouldve sent the LOA to Aviva
3 June 2020: Aviva shouldve sent information about the policies to the receiving scheme
10 June 2020: illustrations shouldve been sent by the receiving scheme to Mr B
21 June 2020: Mr B wouldve confirmed to the receiving scheme he wanted to go ahead
with the transfers (based on the actual timescale of 11 days)
24 June 2020: Origo request wouldve been sent by the receiving scheme to Aviva
29 June 2020: Aviva shouldve sent the funds to the receiving scheme
If both transfers shouldve been completed by 29 June 2020, the delay for the first transfer
was 170 days and 190 days for the second. The investigator apportioned the delays
between Aviva and the receiving scheme. He took into account that Aviva had received a
request for information and a LOA from the receiving scheme on 12 June 2020 plus further
reminders. His view was that, had Aviva dealt with things promptly at the initial stages, the
transfers wouldve happened much earlier. He also said Aviva should pay Mr B £250 for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva didnt accept the investigators view. Amongst other things it said that, as the ceding
scheme, it has little to do with the transfer process except ensuring its requirements are met
and sending the money. The process is driven by the customer and the receiving scheme
who effectively acts for the customer. Aviva also queried whether a small increase in the
payment for trouble and upset was warranted when Aviva had already paid Mr B £200.
In response the investigator provided a copy of the letter the receiving scheme had sent to
Aviva on 12 June 2020. The investigator reasoned that, had Aviva provided the information
requested earlier, Aviva wouldve received the Origo request much sooner. Although two
separate policies were involved, the information the receiving scheme sent on 12 June 2020
shouldve been enough for Aviva to trace the plans. The award for trouble and upset was on
the basis that Aviva hadnt already made a payment.In response Aviva referred to its final response letter which said that two cheques, each for
£100, would be sent to Mr B. The cheques were issued the following day. Aviva maintained
thered been no delay on its part. Aviva had no record of receiving the letter dated 12 June
2020. And, even if it had been received, there was no policy number or address for the
customer so the letter wouldnt have found its way to Mr Bs file. The receiving scheme,
having said it had written to Aviva on 12 June 2020, didnt then chase for the information
during the following four months. Mr B had asked for the information himself in July 2020
and Aviva had promptly provided it. The first contact from the receiving scheme wasnt until
5 October 2020. Aviva issued the information within days but it then took the receiving
scheme until 3 December 2020 to send the Origo request.
Mr B had told Aviva hed passed everything to the receiving scheme but it had taken from
July to December 2020/January 2021 to effect the transfers. Aviva said it couldnt be held
responsible for another firms failings. It had issued all requested information within days of
receiving a request. It had recognised that it had delayed slightly from 3 to 16 December
2020 when paying out on one policy. But, having checked, there was no financial loss.
The investigator considered Avivas further comments. He was happy to remove the award
for trouble and upset. And he agreed the letter sent to Aviva on 12 June 2020 didnt contain
enough customer information  in particular there was no policy number  for Aviva to action
the request. But emails had been sent by the receiving scheme to Aviva between June and
September 2020. He queried if the reference shown had any connection to Mr Bs policies
with Aviva. He also said hed asked the receiving scheme to provide a copy of the updated
LOA it said it had sent to Aviva in July 2020.
Aviva said the reference number was the obsolete scheme member number (made up of the
scheme reference number and Mr Bs member number) for Mr Bs former employers
stakeholder scheme and used before Mr B became a scheme leaver. Aviva provided a copy
of the leaver letter sent to Mr B in May 2020. It showed the new reference number as did all
the many attachments to that letter. The next correspondence was in response to Mr Bs call
on 17 July 2020 which had the correct policy number on it.
The investigator issued a second view on 7 April 2022. He accepted that the receiving
scheme did contact Aviva on 12 June 2020. The letter had no plan number or address but
the attached LOA clearly showed Mr Bs address and plan number. It was an obsolete
scheme number but the same number was provided on the later request for information
dated 1 October 2020 (and from which Aviva had traced Mr Bs policies). But if Aviva hadnt
received the letter of 12 June 2020, Aviva wasnt responsible for any delay between then
and when the receiving scheme chased things up by email on 17 July 2020 with an
amended LOA. Taking into account that Aviva hadnt received the first letter the investigator
amended his conclusions and the proportions of the delay that Aviva and the receiving
scheme were respectively responsible for.
Aviva didnt respond and the investigator told Aviva and Mr B that the complaint would be
referred to an ombudsman to decide. The investigator sent a further letter on 15 August
2022 confirming that and asking for any further comments by 29 August 2022. We didnt
receive any further comments from Mr B or Aviva.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Mr B has complained to both Aviva and the receiving scheme. Weve
investigated the two complaints alongside one another. But the investigator issued separateviews and Im issuing separate decisions. This decision concerns Mr Bs complaint about
Aviva  the ceding scheme.
I think the SLAs set out by the investigator are a reasonable benchmark. But I bear in mind
that there might be some slippage. If one or two steps took a slightly longer time then I dont
think that must mean the time taken was excessive. Ive considered how the transfers were
progressed generally.
Ive seen that the receiving scheme wrote to Aviva on 12 June 2020. But, as the investigator
acknowledged, its unclear if Aviva received it, along with the LOA that shouldve been
enclosed. The letter was sent by post and so its possible it went astray. In that scenario
Aviva isnt responsible for failing to act on the letter.
The receiving scheme says it chased Aviva by email on 17 July 2020 and has produced a
copy of the email. Again its unclear if Aviva got the email and if it contained sufficient
information to identify Mr B and trace his policies. The investigator noted that an attachment
appeared to have been removed from a later email the receiving scheme sent to Aviva (on
10 September 2020). So it was possible the same thing had happened earlier. If the LOA
was removed then there wouldnt have been sufficient information to identify Mr B.
I dont have any reason to say that the email wasnt sent by the receiving scheme and Id
assume that Aviva received it. Aviva shouldve taken some action  even if only to respond
to the receiving scheme to say it couldnt trace the customer and/or policies and that more
information was needed. Thats what seems to have happened when Aviva received a
further email from the receiving scheme on 10 September 2020.
But Im not sure much turns on any failing by Aviva in respect of the email sent on 17 July
2020, given that Mr B contacted Aviva direct on the same day. It seems he told Aviva the
receiving scheme had sent an information request on 12 June 2020. Aviva said it had no
record of that. But Aviva was able to locate Mr Bs policies and statements showing the
current values, transfer discharge forms, the receiving schemes transfer statement and plan
details were emailed direct to Mr B. Id assume hed have passed the information on to the
receiving scheme.
But, from what Ive seen, things hadnt progressed by 12 August 2020 when Mr B got in
contact with Aviva again. It seems he told Aviva hed been trying to transfer out for the last
two months. Again Aviva provided information direct to Mr B  Aviva put transfer forms for
both policies in the post to Mr B the following day.
But it wasnt until 10 September 2020 that the receiving scheme contacted Aviva again and
resent the earlier emails. This time Aviva did respond  it told the receiving scheme it was
unable to open the emails and asked for them to be resent. And, as Ive mentioned, it seems
there was an issue with an attachment to the receiving schemes email being removed. But,
even if that issue shouldnt have arisen at Avivas end, Aviva did tell the receiving scheme it
was unable to open the email and asked for it to be resent. Again I dont see that Aviva can
be responsible for any delay when it had told the receiving scheme that there was a problem
to which the receiving scheme failed to respond by contacting Aviva. The receiving scheme
couldve resent the emails or called Aviva to try to sort out the problem or sent a further
request by post. The receiving scheme did that but not until 1 October 2020. Which meant,
in the interim, Aviva was unaware it needed to do something.
It seems the receiving scheme tried to contact Aviva then because Mr B had been in touch
with the receiving scheme direct. He enclosed forms for it to complete and return to ceding
scheme at the address he set out. And which he said would start the process of transferring
his policies. Ive seen that on the same date (29 September 2020) Aviva also received aletter from Mr B enclosing transfer discharge forms for both policies.
Aviva got the receiving schemes letter of 1 October 2020 with enclosed LOA on 5 October
2020. Aviva says it was the first contact from the receiving scheme. I dont think thats quite
right. From what Ive seen and as Ive noted above, even if Aviva didnt get the receiving
schemes letter of 12 June 2020 and enclosed LOA, the receiving scheme did email Aviva
on 17 July 2020 and 10 September 2020.
Aviva was able to trace the policies from the letter dated 1 October 2020 and enclosed LOA.
I dont think it was because the receiving scheme included further or different policy details. I
think it was because Aviva then had Mr Bs name and his address (which appeared on both
the covering letter and the LOA) which enabled Aviva to trace his policies  I think Aviva
wrote the policy number by hand on the covering letter. Before then, as Aviva hadnt been
able to open the emails and attachments the receiving scheme had sent, Aviva didnt have
Mr Bs address.
Aviva sent the information requested to the receiving scheme on 13 October 2020. Given
that Aviva didnt receive the request until 5 October 2020, thats only just outside the five
working days SLA that the investigator suggested was reasonable for responding to a
request for information. And Aviva had to trace the policies too. I dont think the time taken
by Aviva was unreasonable. I understand that the receiving scheme didnt receive the
information until 23 October 2020. But if Im satisfied that Aviva sent the information within a
reasonable period I dont see that Aviva is responsible for the time it took to get to the
receiving scheme.
Aviva was then waiting for the receiving scheme to contact it. I understand Mr B got in touch
to say hed sent his completed paperwork to the receiving scheme. Aviva told Mr B on 19
and 31 October 2020 that it was waiting to hear from the receiving scheme. Ive seen that
Aviva also wrote to Mr B on 10 November 2020 saying it couldnt proceed with the transfer
as it had outstanding requirements  it needed a letter from the receiving scheme and
confirmation that it was happy to accept the transfer payment.
It seems Aviva didnt hear further until 4 December 2020 when it received an Origo transfer
request from the receiving scheme. It was only for one policy. As Ive set out above, Aviva
accepts there were errors which delayed the transfer being completed. It wasnt until 4
January 2021 that it received a transfer request for the other policy. Aviva completed the
transfer the following delay.
In respect of the transfer which Aviva admits was delayed, Aviva paid interest. It was also
prepared to see if Mr B had suffered any financial loss. Ive seen that information from the
receiving scheme was provided on 21 April 2021. The receiving scheme said the current
value of Mr Bs policy was £86,758.98. Had there been no delay it wouldve been less -
£86,579.36. So Mr B hadnt suffered any financial loss in consequence of Avivas delay.
I agree with what Aviva has said about its limited role in the transfers. As the ceding scheme
it needs to ensure, before making any payment, that its requirements are complete. As Aviva
said in its letter to Mr B dated 10 November 2020, Aviva has a duty to protect its customers
and needs to satisfy itself about the receiving scheme before making any payment. Once
Avivas requirements are complete it has to transfer the funds as soon as reasonably
practicable. The transfer is however driven by the receiving scheme. I note that Mr B also
made efforts himself to move things along. All in all, and aside from Avivas admitted delay
and which doesnt appear to have causes Mr B any financial loss, I dont think Aviva was
responsible for the time it took to transfer Mr Bs pension policies.
In response to my provisional decision Mr B didnt have anything to add. And we didnt receive any further comments from Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full above what I said in my provisional decision and it forms part of this 
decision. In the absence of any further comments, arguments, evidence or information from 
either Mr B or Aviva, my views remain as indicated. For the reasons Ive given Im not 
upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman