DRN-2017878
The complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2000. Mr S has said he had the card 
and PPI since 1991 but I have seen a copy of the credit agreement he signed, and it began 
in April 2000. It may be he is thinking of a different account. This policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mr S applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says he was unaware he had PPI. Ive looked at the PPI screen Mr S wouldve 
seen during his application for the credit card. This gave him the options Yes, I 
would like to protect my repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
(I understand that by clicking on this box I confirm that I have read and agree to the 
terms of the repayment protection policy.) or No, I do not wish to protect my 
repayment and I understand that it will be my responsibility to keep up my 
repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. The options were set out with equal 
prominence. 
The business has sent in a copy of the application report for Mr S. This recorded the 
information Mr S provided during his online application, and the choices he made. 
There is a Y flag for PPI showing Mr S selected the cover during the application 
process. Overall, Im satisfied Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mr S that 
PPI was optional, and he chose to take it.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable for him. It was up to him to decide, given the other ways he 
had to make his repayments if he wasnt working.
 
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mr S all the information about the 
PPI that he needed before he made his decision. But it seems Mr S chose to take out 
the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. Mr S was entitled to just statutory sick pay and the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. So, on balance, given his 
circumstances and the policy terms, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. 
This means Canada Square Operations doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr S. But Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S 
because: 
Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Canada 
Square Operations didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada 
Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman