DRN-3679775
The complaint
Mr G complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim under his 
home insurance policy. When I mention esure I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Mr G has a home insurance policy covering his household contents. 
In September 2021 an item of jewellery was stolen from Mr G. He reported the theft to the 
police and made a claim from esure.
Esure carried out a valuation of the jewellery using a photo, a description from Mr G and a 
valuation Mr G had arranged in July 2021. Mr Gs valuation was for £3,700. 
Esures said it would replace the jewellery by having it made by a specialist jeweller, or it 
could settle the claim for cash at £1,974.31 less Mr Gs excess. Mr G said he didnt want the 
item replaced as it had sentimental value to him. He asked for a cash settlement.
Mr G wasnt happy with the valuation and he complained to esure. Esure referred to its 
policy wording which says:
Contents, personal possessions, specified items
If Your Contents, Personal Possessions or Specified Items are lost or damaged in 
any of the circumstances explained in the policy booklet, We can choose to:
 give You an equivalent replacement. If it is not possible to repair and an equivalent 
replacement is not available, We will pay You cash based on the full replacement 
cost. However, if it is possible to make a repair and/or if an equivalent replacement is 
available but You do not agree with these settlement options, We will pay You cash 
based on the applicable equivalent repair or replacement cost to Us
Esure maintained that its valuation was correct, and suggested that Mr Gs valuation was 
high because it had been made by a retailer who did not usually trade in the specialist type 
of jewellery lost in this case. Esure said they thought the retailer had applied too large a 
mark-up, meaning that esure thought Mr Gs retailer had over-valued the item.
Esure did apologise for the way it had handled the validation of Mr Gs claim and paid him 
£150 compensation for his distress and the delays hed faced.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that esure pay 
the full value of the jewellery. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said esure had followed 
the terms and conditions of its policy wording. Esure had offered Mr G a replacement item of 
jewellery, which Mr G had declined. She said esure were entitled to pay Mr G its cost of 
replacing the jewellery, rather than what he said it was worth. 
Mr G didnt agree with the view. He asked that it was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr G 
so I will explain why. Id also like to assure Mr G that I have read all of the evidence in this 
case. I havent referred to it all here, and have focused on what I think is the central part of 
his complaint.
In esures policy wording, its very clear what the policy will pay out. Having accepted that 
the claim was valid, esures policy wording (which is included above) says that esure will 
replace the stolen item. 
Esure have told this service that it uses a jewellery company to provide this service, and this 
company in turn has said it would use a specialist jewellery maker skilled in making the 
specialist type of jewellery stolen, to make a replacement. So I think its fair to say that Mr G 
would have had his item of jewellery replaced by a new, equivalent item.
Mr G chose to reject the option of having a replacement made because he said that the 
original item had sentimental value to him. I can sympathise with his feelings about this, but 
esures position in its policy wording is clear.
The relevant part of the policy says that esure would only pay its cost of replacement of the 
item (less any excess) if Mr G didnt want the replacement item made. So esure would have 
paid £1,974.31 less Mr Gs excess. 
Its also Mr Gs contention that esures valuation of the item is lower than it should have 
been, given the valuation he obtained. Esure would be buying the item of jewellery on a 
wholesale basis using its buying power to obtain discounts, whereas Mr Gs valuation is 
based on a retail price. The retail price includes a mark-up for the retailer involved and esure 
have said that the mark-up applied by Mr Gs jeweller was too large, given the specialist type 
of the item it was dealing with.
What this means is that esure think Mr Gs valuation was too high. I know Mr G disagrees 
with this point, but esures position on this is clear. It has sought advice on this from its 
specialist supplier and maintained that its valuation (which is a wholesale value) is correct. 
Mr G has provided some evidence about the price of gold, but Im not persuaded that hes 
provided evidence to show esures valuation is incorrect.
But as I have said above, esures policy wording is clear that in this situation the most it will 
pay is the cost of its replacement of the item. So because esure say it can replace the item 
for £1,974.31, then I think its acted fairly, reasonably and in line with its terms and 
conditions in settling Mr Gs claim in line with this. Its my understanding that Mr G has 
already accepted this cash settlement.
I can also see esure have paid Mr G £150 compensation for its handing of his claim, and I 
think this is fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would expect. So Im not 
going to ask esure to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman