DRN-2422509
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan that Mr and Mrs S held until 2017. It was originally 
taken out with a lender Ill call B, but in 2015 was transferred to a different lender, which Ill 
call S. S is an unregulated lender, so arranges for its loan administration to be carried out by 
Link Mortgage Services Limited. The essence of the complaint is that unfair charges and 
excessive interest have been added, meaning Mr and Mrs S have paid a lot more than the 
original credit agreement said they would.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current position and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
In asking for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, Mr and Mrs S have repeated their 
view that our consideration of the complaint needs to look at everything thats happened 
since they took the loan out. But weve already explained that this complaint can only 
address how Link has administered the loan since B transferred it to S in 2015. Prior to that, 
the loan was operated by B, and Mr and Mrs S have made a separate complaint about B. 
The complaint against B has already been decided by an ombudsman colleague. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S arent happy with the outcome of that complaint, but it would be 
wholly inappropriate of me to revisit my fellow ombudsmans conclusions here, in a decision 
on a complaint against a different business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Charges
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the contract to apply fees 
and charges to cover some of the costs of administering a loan account. Such charges are 
typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.
Only two charges were added to Mr and Mrs S loan account during the time it was being 
administered by Link; a £15 fee for a missed direct debit and the £100 redemption fee 
applied when the loan was repaid. Both of these are permitted under the tariff, and neither 
was applied in circumstances that could be considered unfair. 
Interest
The underlying rate of interest charged on this account was set by B when the loan started. 
Its capable of being varied, but any decision to vary the rate would have been made since 
the loan was transferred would have been made by S, not Link. Link would merely 
implement S instruction if a rate change were made. In any event, the rate didnt change 
during the period the loan was owned by S and was at all times lower than the initial rate set 
by B.
Its not our role to audit a loan account; if they wish to, Mr and Mrs S can arrange their own 
audit by a suitably-qualified person or body to establish if the interest applied during the 
period Link was administering the account was higher than what was permitted under the 
contract. If they did that, and errors were found to their detriment, Mr and Mrs S could make 
a new complaint and include the cost of the audit in their claim for redress, alongside any 
loss it had revealed.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman