DRN-2902102
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the customer service that Santander UK Plc (Santander) provided her 
when it processed a chargeback claim on her behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs B paid £180.81 for vitamins. She purchased these through an online ad. In 
June 2020, a further payment of £64.70 was paid from Mrs Bs account for the vitamins. 
Mrs B says she didnt receive the vitamins. 
On 1 July 2020, Mrs B contacted Santander to raise a chargeback claim. Santander sent her 
a dispute form and asked her for evidence to support the claim. Mrs B returned the dispute 
form to Santander on 8 July 2020. By 23 July 2020, Santander hadnt received this 
information, so it resent the dispute form to Mrs B. On 31 July 2020, Santander received the 
information Mrs B had sent on 8 July 2020. However, it didnt receive the supporting 
evidence it had asked Mrs B for. So it contacted her by email asking her for this information. 
Santander received the information it required on 18 August 2020. 
Following this, Mrs B complained to Santander and said it told her she could fill the dispute 
form out online, but it wouldnt accept her overseas postcode. She told Santander she was 
unhappy with the length of time it took to look into her complaint and with the way it had 
handled her complaint. She also says her account was credited with funds, but Santander 
didnt tell her it was doing this. 
On 28 August 2020, Santander looked into Mrs Bs complaint and told her it had raised a 
chargeback claim for her on 24 August 2020. It said it didnt receive the information it had 
initially requested and due to higher than normal volumes of claims, it had taken some time 
to review Mrs Bs claim. It offered to pay Mrs B £50 for the way it had handled her complaint. 
Mrs B didnt accept this offer, so she referred her complaint to our service. She said she 
wanted Santander to offer her more than £50 to put things right.   
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Santander had followed its 
chargeback process correctly. She thought the £50 it had offered was a fair way to resolve 
things.
 
As Mrs B remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Santander to do any more than its already offered to. Ive 
explained why below.
When Mrs B told Santander that she didnt receive the vitamins, Santander looked to raise a 
chargeback. This is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Mrs Bs card, the relevant card 
scheme is VISA. 
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. But if a card issuer has valid grounds to raise 
one and it has a reasonable prospect of success, its good practice for it to raise one. When 
considering whether to raise a chargeback, the card issuer looks at the card scheme rules, 
to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible chargeback reasons. If 
so, relevant evidence is requested to back up the claim and the chargeback is raised.  
Santander asked Mrs B to complete and return a dispute form before it raised a chargeback. 
As it didnt receive all the information it required from Mrs B by letter, it asked Mrs B to 
complete the dispute form online. But Mrs B was unable to do this, due to her overseas 
postcode not being recognised. This is because Santanders system doesnt recognise 
addresses outside of the UK. So Santander agreed to let Mrs B send the information it 
needed by email. 
I understand this caused a delay to Mrs Bs claim being raised and had she been able to 
complete the dispute form online, I think its likely her chargeback claim would have been 
processed sooner. In addition, Santander knew Mrs B was overseas and ought to have 
known that she wouldnt have been able to complete the dispute form online. So I think 
Santander could have offered Mrs B the choice to email the dispute form sooner than it did. 
I also appreciate Mrs B feels frustrated by the length of time it took for Santander to raise a 
chargeback claim. However, the scheme rules list the information that is required before a 
chargeback is raised. Ive looked at the information Santander requested from Mrs B and I 
think it was entitled to request the information it did, before it raised the chargeback. And 
when it did finally receive the information it required, it processed Mrs Bs chargeback claim 
within six days. So I think it progressed Mrs Bs claim within a reasonable period of time.
Mrs B says Santander didnt tell her that it had credited her account or that the funds could 
be removed. However, I can see it sent her a letter on 25 August 2020, to her overseas 
address, to say it credited her account. The figures it had quoted on the letter were incorrect, 
but Mrs Bs account was credited correctly. The letter told Mrs B that the funds might be re-
debited, but if 45 days had passed and she didnt hear from Santander, then the funds would 
permanently remain in her account. So Im satisfied Santander did tell Mrs B it credited her 
account and that there was a possibility her account could be re-debited. In any event, the 
chargeback was successful, so the funds werent re-debited from Mrs Bs account.
Overall, I think Santander caused some delays when it suggested Mrs B fill out an online 
dispute form, when she wasnt able to. However, I think the £50 Santander has already 
offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not asking it to pay anything 
further to Mrs B.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc have already made an offer to pay Mrs B £50 to settle the complaint. I 
think this offer is fair in the circumstances. So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should 
pay £50 to Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman