DRN-4116912
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Covea Insurance plc failed to provide a courtesy car while her 
car was being repaired when she made a claim under her car insurance policy. Miss P also 
complains that her No Claims Bonus (NCB) was impacted by the claim. 
What happened
Miss P made a claim to her insurer, Covea in November 2022. Covea arranged for Miss Ps 
car to be repaired by an approved repairer (AR). 
Under Miss Ps policy she is entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of repairs. But the AR 
didnt provide one. 
Miss P complained to Covea as she was without use of a car for 46 days. She explained that 
she has a foot condition which means walking is very painful. Without access to a car, the 
impact on Miss P meant she was unable to work on a supply basis as she needed a car to 
travel, and over the Christmas period she wasnt able to meet family as planned. She said 
she used public transport and walked for her shopping, but this was difficult. 
Miss P said that she found it very distressing having to deal with Covea and the AR as she 
was chasing for an update on the availability of a courtesy car.  She said shed been a 
careful driver for many years. Unhappy with the impact the claim had on her NCB, Miss P 
said she always protected it, but in error hadnt done so when she bought this policy. 
Covea upheld Miss Ps complaint and paid her £460 - equivalent to our recommended rate 
of £10 a day - for loss of use for 46 days. It increased the payment to £500 due to a delay in 
issuing the payment. 
Miss P didnt think this was enough to put things right, and so she asked us to look at her 
complaint. Our Investigator thought the £500 Covea had paid was a starting point - and she 
thought Covea had correctly recorded the claim. But she thought Covea hadnt considered 
the impact and the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P, so she recommended 
Covea pay £150 for this. 
Miss P accepted the Investigators recommendations. She provided medical evidence to 
support what she told us about her foot condition and the impact it has on her daily life. 
Covea didnt agree. In summary it says it has paid a fair amount for loss of use. It said while 
the AR didnt say why it hadnt provided a courtesy car - but accepted it hadnt - Miss P had 
requested an automatic one and these are not as available as manual courtesy cars. 
So as Covea didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P didnt complain to Covea that her NCB had been impacted by the claim. But she 
wants Covea to reinstate it as a way to put things right for failing to provide a courtesy car. I 
can see from her policy documents that her NCB wasnt protected. And so in line with the 
policy, when a claim is made it will have an impact on her NCB. So I dont think Covea 
should reinstate Miss Ps NCB. 
It isnt in dispute that Coveas AR failed to provide a courtesy car to Miss P for the duration 
of repairs - which meant Miss P had a loss of use of a vehicle for this time, even though she 
was entitled to one under the policy. In line with our approach, Covea paid Miss P £460 - 
increasing this to £500 for a delay in issuing the £460 payment. 
But Covea didnt address the distress and inconvenience its failure to provide a car had 
caused Miss P. I note Coveas comments that Miss P requested an automatic courtesy car. 
So it says it had no update to give while a courtesy car wasnt available. However, it isnt 
clear that this was the reason why the AR didnt provide a courtesy car: Covea believes it 
may have been a reason. But that doesnt mean Miss P wasnt caused distress and 
inconvenience in the wait for one, having to call to ask if one was available, and planning her 
days before and after Christmas while being unable to work and carry out planned events 
with family. And having read and understood what the impact was, I think a fair outcome is 
for Covea to pay Miss P £150 compensation. I think this is in line with awards which we give 
for similar circumstances - and is outside of the loss of use payment Covea has paid Miss P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Miss P 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in addition to the 
£500 its already paid Miss P for loss of use. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Miss P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman