DRN-2648477
The complaint
Mr S feels National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has failed to make a reasonable 
adjustment for him under the Equality Act 2010 when following its fraud prevention 
procedures.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with NatWest. In April 2020 restrictions were placed on his 
account which stopped him from being able to make payments with his debit card. In order 
to remove the restrictions, NatWest required Mr S to phone and verify the transactions that 
had triggered the restrictions.
Mr S said this wasnt suitable for him as he didnt feel able to speak to NatWest over the 
phone directly. He called NatWest via a text relay service and asked to verify the 
transactions via text message to his mobile phone rather than in a phonecall. NatWest said it 
wasnt able to offer this option. As an alternative it told Mr S he could:
Verify transactions in branch
Verify transactions over the phone via a professional third party service like the one 
hed already used
Verify transactions over the phone via another chosen representative such as a 
family member or friend
A NatWest representative could visit Mr S at his home to verify the transactions in 
person
Mr S didnt feel any of these options were suitable. He said NatWest branches were 
inaccessible to him so a branch visit wasnt suitable. He said speaking on the phone through 
a representative wasnt suitable because he didnt want his personal banking transactions to 
be discussed with a third party. He refused a home visit because he felt this was impractical. 
He felt that text message was the only suitable option and that in not offering this NatWest 
wasnt making a reasonable adjustment for him as it was required to do under the Equality 
Act 2010, therefore it was discriminating against him.
Mr S made a complaint to NatWest about this and the fact the restrictions had been placed 
on the account. NatWest responded in May 2020 and explained that due to the level of risk it 
had identified on Mr Ss account it was unable to verify the payments via text message. It 
explained it was unable to provide any more detail about this or why the restrictions were put 
in place as this related to its fraud prevention measures which needed to be kept secure.
NatWest doesnt have a record of when the April restrictions were removed or how Mr S 
verified the transactions that triggered the restrictions. Mr Ss account statements and 
transaction records held by NatWest appear to reflect the restrictions were removed a few 
days later and he resumed use of the account.
On 12 July 2020 restrictions were again place on Mr Ss account. According to NatWests 
records Mr S contacted it the same day by phone to verify the transactions that triggered the 
restrictions and they were removed.
Mr S made another complaint to NatWest about the July restrictions  he was unhappy they 
were put in place and that he was required to call it to verify genuine transactions. NatWest 
responded to the complaint and said the restrictions that had been put in place, and the 
method required to verify transactions, were in line with its fraud prevention procedures. As it 
hadnt made an error it was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service to consider. He felt the restrictions NatWest had 
placed on his account were unfair and it was discriminating against him as it wasnt making 
the reasonable adjustments it was required to under the Equality Act 2010. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. They felt in offering the alternatives it did NatWest had acted 
fairly and reasonably. As Mr S didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the restrictions applied fairly?
When considering Mr Ss complaint Ive taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. As such I think NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case NatWest has explained transactions on Mr Ss account were a concern as it felt 
they reflected what mightve been fraudulent activity on his account. In order to protect him it 
restricted the account until it could speak to him and check the transactions were genuine. 
Whilst I acknowledge the transactions turned out to be genuine, I dont think in this case 
NatWest was acting unreasonably in following its security procedures and carrying out 
further checks when it identified a risk.
Whilst I understand Mr S wanted to know more about why the restrictions on his account 
were put in place, it isnt unreasonable NatWest was unable to share this with him. What 
might prompt it to restrict an account, and the way a business measures the risk of 
fraudulent activity, is sensitive information and constantly evolving in response to changing 
risks. Its reasonable it didnt want this information in the public domain. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the restrictions were reasonably applied in this 
case.
Was NatWest acting reasonably in asking Mr S to verify the transactions in the way that it 
did?Its not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to judge whether NatWest has breached the
Equality Act 2010. This is an issue for the courts. But I must take the relevant law into 
account when deciding whether I think NatWest has treated Mr S fairly in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Under the Equality Act 2010, where a business has a provision, criteria or practice which 
puts someone with a disability at a disadvantage in using its services compared to someone 
without a disability, it should take reasonable steps to remove the disadvantage. This is 
known as the duty to make reasonable adjustments. Im satisfied Mr S has a condition that 
brings him within the scope of this duty, and so the Equality Act is relevant law for me to 
consider.
In this case, requiring Mr S to verify transactions over the phone was a practice that NatWest 
applied to all its customers where there were certain fraud concerns. Mr S has said that 
because he wasnt able to do that, he was put at a disadvantage. And NatWest has said that 
it offered him alternatives he could use  although not the one he wanted. So Ive considered 
whether the alternatives NatWest offered meant that it treated him fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances, or whether it was fair to expect it to offer verification by text.
NatWest explained to Mr S it was unable to do this due to the type of restrictions that had 
been placed on his account and the type of fraud concerns it had. And as a starting point this 
is reasonable. Its up to NatWest to decide what verification processes provide its customers 
with adequate protection.
But, as Mr S had said he was unable to speak to NatWest directly over the phone I wouldve 
expected it to provide reasonable alternatives in order to allow Mr S to verify the transactions 
on his account. I understand visiting branch wasnt an option for Mr S so I agree this wasnt 
a reasonable alternative. But I think the other options  speaking over the phone via a third 
party or a home visit were.
I say this because I havent seen anything to suggest these alternatives werent accessible 
to Mr S. Although he prefers not to discuss his banking transactions with a third party, a 
professional service or someone in his personal life, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
alternative. And, the option of a home visit offered by NatWest removed third party 
involvement. So Mr S was also offered an option that kept his transactions private. And 
whilst Mr S has said a home visit was impractical, he hasnt gone into more detail about this 
or explained why it wasnt accessible to him. 
Id also note that since April 2020 Mr S has been able to verify the transactions on his 
account and have the restrictions removed on two occasions seemingly via methods other 
than using text messages. In July 2020, according to NatWests records, he called 
NatWests fraud department and spoke to it directly over the phone to verify transactions. 
Unfortunately there is always a degree of inconvenience if an account is restricted when 
fraud hasnt taken place and the account holder loses full access to their account. So whilst I 
can see Mr S has been caused some inconvenience by the account block and having to 
undertake the verification process (by whatever means), it doesnt follow that the options the 
bank has given are not fair or reasonable. It seems verifying the transactions via text 
message wouldve been Mr Ss preference. But NatWest was required to provide alternative 
contact methods Mr S was able to use rather than alternatives he preferred to use.
Overall Im satisfied NatWest has offered Mr S reasonable and suitable options for Mr S that 
have allowed him to verify account transactions and I havent found it has treated him 
unfairly.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman