DRN-3766501
The complaint
Mrs M complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
What happened
Mrs M took five loans from Morses between November 2019 and May 2021. A summary of 
her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £300.00 29/11/2019 11/06/2020 34 £15.00
2 £500.00 11/06/2020 28/01/2021 34 £25.00
3 £300.00 11/09/2020 06/04/2021 34 £15.00
4 £400.00 19/02/2021 06/04/2021 34 £20.00
5 £1,000.00 28/05/2021 sold 35 £50.00
Mrs M had some problems repaying her final loan, and Morses has shown that it sold the 
outstanding debt to a third-party collection agency in February 2022.  
Following Mrs Ms complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Mrs Ms representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses ought to have done 
more before the first loan was granted because of the information it was made aware of from 
the credit search results. The adjudicator considered Mrs Ms bank statements, but she 
didnt see anything that wouldve led Morses to decline the loan. 
She also thought, for the other loans a more detailed picture needed to have been built by 
Morses, but she didnt have either a credit file or bank statements from Mrs M which covered 
the right period of time. She, therefore, didnt uphold her complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mrs Ms representative didnt agree. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs 
Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs M. These factors include:
Mrs M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs M.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs M was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses likely took details of Mrs Ms income and 
expenditure. She declared a weekly income of £360 with declared weekly outgoings of £148. 
Leaving around £212 per week in which to make her repayment of £15. This loan looked 
affordable to Morses based on the information Mrs M declared.  
In addition, before this loan was granted Morses also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Mrs M 
may be able to view in her own credit report or in her bank statement at the time. There 
could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Morses only asking the number of active 
credit accounts. But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Having looked at the credit check results, there is some concerning adverse information 
such as Morses was aware of 2 County Court Judgements (CCJs) for £3,186 and both 
hadnt been settled.
However, Morses also knew the most recent of the CCJs had been recorded 32 months 
before this loan was granted. The CCJs on their own wouldnt be enough, in my view to 
uphold the complaint. I say this because these CCJs showed a number of years ago Mrs M 
had some quite significant repayment problems but arent a current reflection of her financial 
position at the time the check was carried out.    
But, Morses was aware of 13 active credit accounts with Mrs M having just over £2,500 of 
outstanding debt. It was also aware of 8 accounts which Mrs M had defaulted on  two of 
these had been settled. But five of these accounts had defaulted within the previous year 
and the most recent default was applied only four months prior to this loan being granted.  
In my view, given the number of defaulted accounts and how close they potentially were to 
the granting of this loan I do think Morses needed to have done more before the loan was 
granted. I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Ms actual financial position to 
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Mrs Ms full credit file.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered 
that Mrs M couldnt afford it.
Mrs Ms representative has provided copy bank statements for the period around the time 
this loan was approved. Looking at Mrs Ms bank statements I cant see anything that 
wouldve led Morses to have declined the application for credit. The loan still looked 
affordable.  
So, although, Morses didnt carry out a proportionate check had it done so, Im satisfied it 
wouldve thought Mrs M could afford her repayments. 
Loans 2 - 5
For these loans, Morses carried out the same sort of checks as it did for loan 1. It asked 
Mrs M for her income and expenditure details. Based on the results of these checks, Morses 
couldve been confident that Mrs M would be able to afford the repayments. I would add, that 
after making the payment due for Loan 4, Mrs M wouldve been left with very little each 
week. This appears to have happened as a result of a significant drop in her declared 
income. 
There were also times when loans were taken in a consecutive manner or there were loans 
running currently. Loan 5 was also Mrs Ms largest loan to date and was significantly larger 
than any of her previous loans and as Ive said above, Mrs Ms income had started to 
fluctuate. 
Thinking about everything above, I do think Morses needed to have done further checks 
before these loans were approved. It needed to have verified the information Mrs M had 
provided. As before, Morses couldve done this a number of ways such as asking for a copy 
of her full credit report, copies of bills to show outgoings or to have reviewed her bank 
statements. The adjudicator couldnt uphold these loans because the copy bank statements provided by 
Mrs M dont cover the relevant period of time when these loans were approved. The 
adjudicator also invited Mrs Ms representative to provide the bank statements for the 
relevant period of time. However, the Financial Ombudsman hasnt received anything 
further. 
There also wasnt anything else in the information Mrs M provided that wouldve led Morses 
to have upheld the complaint because the loans were in some way unsustainable for her. 
Nor were there any signs that Mrs M was having, or likely having financial difficulties.
As no further statements were provided in response to the adjudicators assessment, Ive not 
been able to review what Morses may have seen at the time each of these loans were 
approved had it carried out a proportionate check. I therefore, cant uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding any of Mrs Ms loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman