DRN-1554508
The complaint
Mr M has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about the way it set up 
his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M tried to take out travel insurance through AXA and encountered a few problems in 
finalising cover. His initial quote didnt take account of all his requirements, and he couldnt 
view the quotation (as the format wasnt right) when he went back to the quote. When he 
spoke to AXA direct it was established that its system hadnt picked up all his details and the 
price was double  it went up from £13 to about £23. But Mr M still went ahead with the 
policy.
When the policy was set up Mr Ms policy documentation wasnt correct. The policy didnt 
outline some additional benefits that he had as he already had an exclusive membership 
package with them. Mr M complained to AXA and it accepted that its systems could be 
better and offered £75 by way of compensation which also reflected the way it dealt with his 
complaint. As Mr M remained unhappy and wanted £225 in compensation, he complained to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He accepted AXA 
couldve dealt with things better and that Mr M clearly encountered system problems when 
he applied for his travel insurance. And that his documentation couldve been more accurate. 
But as AXA had acknowledged his correct level of cover and paid a small amount of 
compensation for its errors, he thought it had acted reasonably.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration as he encountered various difficulties in taking out his 
travel insurance. And I agree that ideally his policy documentation should explain his 
increased level of cover as he has an exclusive membership. But AXA has acknowledged 
his level of cover and said it would honour this, so I dont think this has had any effect on Mr 
M other than he had to seek clarification. And AXA has explained that it just wants to issue 
the same policy documentation to all its customers, and I can understand that.
I know Mr M feels that he should be paid a lot more compensation, but our awards are 
generally modest. And I dont think it should have to pay Mr M for the time and 
inconvenience of advancing the complaint. So, I think £75 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
As Mr M has highlighted this service is an alternative to going to court and looks to finalise 
complaints in a less formal and fair and reasonable way. There is always some 
inconvenience in advancing a complaint and I cant tell a business how it should operate or 
the details to provide in its policy documentation. 
But I can look at the individual merits of a complaint. Having done so I think that AXAs 
compensation offer is fair. And it has looked to use Mr Ms feedback to improve its customer 
journey. So, although I know how disappointing this will be to Mr M, I think it has acted 
reasonably. I understand he was worried about his level of cover before he got clarification, 
but AXA explained things to him and fortunately this didnt have any affect as Mr M didnt 
make a claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman