DRN-3866831
The complaint
Mr H complains that eToro (UK) Ltd unfairly closed his contract for difference (CFD) 
positions when the underlying assets were delisted.
What happened
On 29 February 2022 Mr H opened two CFD positions where the underlying asset was the 
American Depository Receipt (ADR) of Sberbank of Russia. On 3 March 2022 the ADR 
was delisted from the London Stock Exchange. In September 2022 eToro closed Mr Hs 
positions, explaining that due to the geopolitical situation in Ukraine, the ADR was delisted 
and as a result the CFD positions would be closed at the last available rate. 
Mr H complained because he felt he ought to have received the ADRs and have them 
converted to shares due to the delisting, instead of his position being closed. eToro didnt 
uphold the complaint saying that as Mr H didnt own the ADRs themselves, he couldnt 
convert them to shares. They said theyd closed the positions at the last available rate. As 
Mr H remained unhappy he brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that eToro had acted in 
line with their terms and conditions in closing the positions and so they hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr H disagreed, in summary explaining that hed be happy to leave the positions 
open indefinitely, rather than close them at a loss. He also felt the way the positions were 
sold wasnt fair  he had wanted to buy the ADR itself, rather than a CFD, but this wasnt 
available to him, which he says is because of the country he lives in. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, and so the case has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for mostly the 
same reasons. Firstly, for clarity, I should explain that one of the points Mr H has raised 
following receipt of the investigators opinion is a new complaint point and will be dealt with 
as a separate complaint. Specifically, this is his point about wanting to buy the ADR itself 
and as this wasnt available, he opened the CFD positions instead  but he thinks he ought 
to have been able to buy the ADR. As such, in my decision I will only be commenting on the 
closure of those positions and not the way in which they were sold. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the account, as these set out the agreement 
between Mr H and eToro, and they also outline the way in which the account will operate. Its 
the type of account in which Mr H can invest in stocks, CFDs, ETFs and cryptocurrency  
and from the statements I can see he invests in all of these. Theres a particular section of 
the terms  Schedule A  which governs CFD trading. Section 11 of this says:
11.1 A Corporate Event is something which will result in a change to one or more financial 
instruments. Examples of Corporate Events include delistings
11.2 If a Corporate Event impacts the underlying product of a CFD in your eToro account, 
we will use reasonable endeavours to adjust the open positions on that CFD, in a fair way 
and in accordance with market practice
11.3 Notwithstanding clause 11.2 above, we reserve the right to close any open CFD 
positions where the underlying product is impacted by a Corporate Event (including 
delistings and insolvency)
Based on these terms, Im satisfied that in closing the positions, eToro has acted in line with 
their agreement with Mr H. I also consider that closing the positions was fair and reasonable. 
This is because eToro can no longer retrieve accurate pricing details about the cost of the 
investment that Mr Hs position is based on. 
A CFD by nature tracks the way the underlying assets price moves. Where that asset is a 
listed investment, that pricing data is easily and reliably retrieved from the exchange on 
which its listed  in this case the London Stock Exchange. As the ADR is no longer listed on 
that exchange, eToro no longer have the same data on which to rely. Given the ongoing lack 
of up-to-date pricing and with no view of when the ADR would be re-listed, Im satisfied it is 
reasonable that eToro took the step of closing the positions.
Ive considered the price at which eToro closed the positions and Im satisfied this is a fair 
price to use, as its the price available on the day the ADR was delisted. So, its the last 
information available for the cost of the asset on which the CFD is based.  
 
Mr H has made the point that hed have rather kept the position open indefinitely. Technically 
eToro did have this option  and I can see they kept the position open for several months 
after the ADR was delisted. However, I dont think the fact they could have kept it open 
automatically makes eToros decision to close the position unreasonable. They were 
supported by the terms in doing so, as they gave eToro discretion in this situation. 
As mentioned above, there was no timeline or indication of when the ADR would be re-listed. 
eToro made this decision on all open CFD positions that were based on this ADR, not just 
for Mr H. So, I don't think the decision to close rather than to continue to keep the position 
open was unfair.
Overall I dont think eToro acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing Mr Hs CFD positions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman