DRN-4111234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank plc and complain that the bank made 
them a settlement offer but then lied about having done so and tried to cover it up.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 2007 on an interest-only basis. The term ended in 
August 2022.
In early September 2022, Mr B visited a branch of HSBC to discuss some complaints. He 
says the staff member he spoke to looked at his complaint file and said a £5,000 settlement 
offer had been made to him. Mr B says this was the first hed heard of such an offer, and 
HSBC had withheld it from him. He says the branch manager told him she would look into 
the matter and get back to him. 
Mr B went back to the same branch the following day, but says the manager told him there 
was no record of the £5,000 offer he had been told about the day before. 
Mr and Mrs B complained about what had happened. 
HSBC said the branch manager Mr B had spoken to had no recollection of discussing a 
settlement offer of £5,000 with him. It also said it had no record of making such an offer and 
it wouldnt have made an offer like this. 
Our Investigator thought there may have been a misunderstanding during Mr Bs branch 
visit, but he wasnt persuaded that HSBC had made a settlement offer or that it should do so 
now.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review. Mr B was certain about 
the offer that had been made and wanted a more rigorous investigation to be carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think its important to point out that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a 
regulator. So its not for me to set rules for financial businesses or to fine or punish them 
when they get things wrong. The Financial Ombudsman is an independent dispute resolution 
service. 
Mr B says HSBC lied to him and illegally redacted information, and its clear that he feels 
very strongly about what happened. There are no audio recordings of his branch visits, so I 
cant be sure of exactly what was said. I must rely on the parties recollections and the other 
available evidence.
Theres no dispute that Mr B visited the branch as he says he did and that he spoke to a 
staff member and the branch manager. Indeed, Mr B has provided a photo of the staff 
member. The staff member in question says that he doesnt remember serving Mr B, but that 
he sees a lot of customers. The branch manager says she does remember Mr B and asking 
him to leave the branch, but she doesnt remember discussing a £5,000 settlement offer.
Ive carefully considered what all the parties involved have said, as well as HSBCs records 
for Mr and Mrs B. Those records include a note of a phone call Mr B had with HSBC on 25 
July 2022, which says the following about Mr and Mrs Bs original repayment plan for the 
mortgage: endowment. Was miss sold [sic]. Had settlement of £5k. used the funds to 
subsidise income after being made redundant.
The available evidence leads me to conclude that there may well have been mention of a 
£5,000 settlement to Mr B at the branch in September 2022. That doesnt mean, however, 
that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for HSBC either to pay Mr and 
Mrs B that sum or to accept that sum to settle their outstanding mortgage. 
I find no other record of a £5,000 settlement in HSBCs records, and Im satisfied that the 
note in question as Ive quoted above isnt, and never was, an offer that was open to Mr and 
Mrs B to accept. Its unfortunate if it was presented differently to Mr B and that he 
understood it was an offer. Importantly, though, this was put right the next day, when Mr B 
visited the branch again and says he was told there was no offer.
The usual remedy for misrepresentation isnt for the complainant to be put in the position he 
or she would have been in if the misrepresentation were true. Its for the complainant to be 
put in the position they would have been in if things had been explained correctly. Here, this 
means Mr and Mrs B arent entitled to a £5,000 settlement: if Mr B was told there was such a 
settlement, that was a misrepresentation. 
I find there has been a misunderstanding between the parties in this case and, in all the 
circumstances, I dont consider it fair or reasonable to make any order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I make no order or 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman