DRN-3713778
The complaint
Mr S complains MBNA Limited didnt let him know it was going to be making changes to its 
security processes, that it shared his mobile number without his consent and that it wont 
deal with him in writing.
What happened
Mr S has an MBNA credit card and has been an MBNA customer for over twenty years.
In March 2022 Mr S says he phoned a business to pay an annual fee using his credit card. 
He says he learnt during that call that hed need an authorisation code that would be sent to 
his mobile phone which hed need to give to the merchant for the payment to go through.
Mr S contacted MBNA to say that the change was news to him as hed received no written 
notice from it either on what it was planning or when. He said that he was unhappy that the 
new process involved MBNA sharing his mobile number with the merchant  without his 
consent  and that it was sending the code to an old number of his. He said that he wasnt 
able to change his number as he doesnt use online banking and MBNA didnt have an email 
address or an online chat function. He said that he had payments delayed and declined as a 
result of MBNAs new process causing him embarrassment and reputational damage.
MBNA investigated Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. MBNA said it had made changes to 
its processes in order to implement strong customer authentication. In the meantime, MBNA 
said that it had updated the mobile number it had for him. MBNA said that Mr S could 
contact them by phone or in writing and gave him the relevant details given that it didnt have 
an email address or an online chat function. Mr S was unhappy with MBNAs response  
saying that MBNA wanted to call him rather than deal with him in writing even though hed 
supplied a secure email address  and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that they 
didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly when it made changes to its processes, that MBNA had 
sent details of the changes to his email address and that this wasnt unreasonable. Mr S 
didnt agree with our investigator saying that he hadnt received details of the changes in 
writing, that he was still unclear as to the process involved and that he didnt think it was 
unreasonable to expect MBNA to reply in writing. He wanted an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
strong customer authentication
MBNA told Mr S in its final response that it had made changes to its fraud prevention 
measures in line with strong customer authentication regulations. MBNA told Mr S that these 
changes were in response to recent regulatory changes introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and that they will be an industry wide change involving both banks and retailers.
MBNA is right that new regulations making changes to the way businesses authenticate 
came into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
MBNA is also right that these regulations affected the whole banking sector and retailers. 
The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of 
the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as: 
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.
MBNAs approach to implementing strong customer authentication
MBNA has to apply strong customer authentication if its customers log onto their accounts 
online, use their card to make a payment online or do something remote and risky. An 
example of something remote and risky is a customer orders a new card over the phone. 
See Article 100 above.
Mr S told MBNA  and hes told us too  that he doesnt use online banking. So, the only 
times hes likely to need to authenticate using strong customer authenticate is if he uses his 
credit card to make an online payment  assuming an exception doesnt apply, or the 
transaction isnt caught for some other reason  or does something remote and risky.
MBNA has to have a way that customers can identify themselves using two out of three 
different types of identification:
 something they know (password / memorable information);
 something they have (a device you own e.g. mobile phone or laptop);
 something they are (biometrics like fingerprint or face scanning).
Im satisfied that MBNA offers four ways in which Mr S can authenticate himself when 
shopping online, namely:
 he can authenticate himself using MBNAs mobile banking app;
 he can label a device he owns as trusted and MBNA would recognise this as his 
usual internet device. This would involve a setting that would be stored as a cookie 
on his device, so Mr S would have to make sure this didnt get deleted;
 he can authenticate himself using a code MBNA would send to his mobile phone;
 he can authenticate himself using his landline  hed be given a code on screen 
which hed either need to key in or speak into his telephone handset.
why did Mr S complain?
Mr S was unhappy with MBNA for several reasons, namely that:
 it hadnt notified him of the changes in advance meaning he hadnt been able to 
update his mobile number before the changes took place. This meant MBNA also 
sent the code he needed to an old mobile number;
 it had shared his mobile number with a merchant without his consent;
 it hadnt  and still hasnt  explained in writing how the new process worked; and
 it didnt  and still doesnt  offer an email authentication option.
Im going to say more about how MBNA went about notifying its customers in a moment, and 
how its been communicating with Mr S more generally, as I can see that this is an important 
issue for Mr S. In the meantime, Im satisfied that it was Mr Ss responsibility to update MBNA when his mobile phone number changed, and that MBNA updated its records within a 
week when he did so. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable. Im also satisfied that MBNA 
is offering Mr S sufficient alternative ways of authenticating, notwithstanding the fact hed 
prefer to authenticate using email  an option some businesses offer. I dont think thats 
unfair or unreasonable either. Im also satisfied that MBNA didnt share Mr Ss mobile with 
the merchant as thats not the way strong customer authentication works. In short, I dont 
think theres anything that MBNA has done which is unfair or unreasonable as far as these 
points are concerned.
should MBNA have done more for Mr S?
As Ive already mentioned, the main reason why Mr S wanted an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint is because hes not happy with the ways in which it communicates  and in 
particular the lack of an online chat and email option. I can see that this is an issue that Mr S 
has complained about in the past. One of the reasons why he appears to be unhappy with 
the way MBNA communicates  and, in particular, MBNA wanting to rely on the phone  is 
because he likes to keep a record of what has been said which is easier when both sides are 
communicating in writing.
Im satisfied that MBNA notified its customers  in a lot of different ways  about the changes 
it was going to be making to its security processes. Im satisfied that Mr S received 
notifications  even if they werent necessarily in the format he would have preferred and 
didnt go into the detail he would have preferred. I can understand why Mr S would like 
MBNA to communicate by email or online chat, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that MBNA 
is acting unfairly or unreasonably in Mr Ss case. MBNA has given Mr S its contact details 
should he wish to communicate in writing. In short, I dont think MBNA needs to do more in 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman