DRN-4160639
The complaint
Mrs O complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly closed her credit 
card account immediately and without warning nor explanation causing her severe distress 
and inconvenience.
To keep things simple, I will refer to Barclays mostly in my decision.  
What happened
This decision only deals with Barclays actions in relation to the closure of the credit card 
account. Mrs Os complaint relating to other accounts, and the management of the debt on 
this account are being considered under separately.  
In July 2022, following a review, Barclays decided to close Mrs Os Barclaycard account. 
Barclays say it sent Mrs O a notice of closure letter, Mrs O says she didnt get it. Mrs Os 
account was closed immediately, but as she had an outstanding balance on it, Barclays 
continued to take payment on it. 
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Mrs O complained. Barclays did not uphold the complaint, 
and in its response, and in short said: 
- The account has been closed in line with Barclays policy. The account terms and 
conditions explain Barclays can close an account in this way and it doesnt need to 
give an explanation
- A notice to close letter was sent in July 2022 
- As Mrs O is no longer able to access the Barclays mobile App, the account has been 
switched to postal statements 
- Mrs Os payments are up to date, so theres no adverse impact to her credit rating
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Mrs O referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into it, and in summary they found: 
- Barclays is entitled to review Mrs Os account given its legal and regulatory 
obligations
- Given Barclays reasons for closing the account, it acted fairly. But it shouldnt have 
closed the account immediately, and instead given Mrs O at least 60 days notice in 
line with the terms of the account 
- Barclays should pay Mrs O £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
This award takes into account Mrs O had to visit the branch several times, and a 
delay with Barclays arranging paper statements 
Mrs O did not agree with the amount of compensation that was recommended by our 
Investigator. She has sent in a copy of a case study scenario from this services website as 
she feels, like in that case, she should get more compensation. 
In response, our Investigator said each complaint is considered on its individual merits, and 
the case study Mrs O sent us was not similar nor comparable here. Mrs O said that 1 £100 
award would not deter Barclays from such practices, and it hasnt properly considered the 
stress and panic caused to her  especially the impact on her health as she was pregnant at 
the time. 
Barclays accepted our Investigators recommendations. Our Investigator explained to Mrs O 
that our role is not to punish businesses for any of broader commercial practices, but to 
determine the merits of individual complaints. 
As Mrs O didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having considered Barclays reasons for reviewing Mrs Os account, Im satisfied it acted in 
line with its obligations. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as Mrs O may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays, trading as Barclaycard, and Mrs O 
had to comply with, say it could close the account by giving her at least two months written 
notice. And in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account. But the crux of this complaint is whether Barclays had reason enough to 
close it immediately or whether it should have given Mrs O at least two months notice as per 
the terms and conditions of the account. 
Barclays have given me information about why it decided to close the account in the way it 
did. Mrs O would like to know why Barclays acted in the way it did. Neither Barclays nor I are 
under any obligation, that Im aware of, to disclose the reason. 
Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence 
from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security 
information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has 
provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
On the face of it, Ive considered very carefully if Barclays had reason enough to close the 
account immediately  and part of me thinks it did. But I would have expected Barclays to 
have done more in the way of due diligence before deciding to close the account immediately. So, for slightly different reasoning, I think as it fell short in its own review and 
based on what its told this service it did, Im persuaded on balance, that it should have given 
Mrs O two months notice of closure. 
Mrs O says she used her credit card for everyday spending. But this is a credit card, and 
borrowing money isnt something she is entitled to. Ive noted shes been inconvenienced by 
having to go into branch, but that also related to other products she held with Barclays. 
Mrs O also knew she had to make payments on the account as shes said this. I note Mrs O 
was pregnant at the time, which could have exacerbated any distress and anxiety at the 
time. I also note there was delay too with paper statements being sent. 
But had Mrs O been given two months notice, as I think Barclays should have, Im not 
persuaded a more substantive award is merited. 
I say that because its unlikely Mrs O would have spent more on the credit card given its 
balance at the time and knowing her card would close in two months time. So, in practice, I 
must award compensation for Mrs O not having two months to make alternative 
arrangements and being left without a credit card she could borrow money on.
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, I note Mrs O says she didnt get the notice of 
closure letter. Barclays have sent me a copy of what it sent. I note its correctly addressed, 
and Ive not seen compelling evidence Mrs O was having issues with receiving her post. So I 
dont think its likely Barclays have done anything wrong here. 
After taking everything into account, Im satisfied £100 is fair compensation. Ive looked at 
the case study Mrs O sent in, but like our Investigator I dont think its relatable here. And 
importantly, as Ive done here, I must make my decision on the individual circumstances and 
merits of a complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mrs O £100 compensation  if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman