DRN-3809402
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of the beneficiaries of a pension trust, makes a number of complaints about 
the way Phoenix Wealth Services Ltd (PW) has managed issues related to a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) held in trust.
All references to Mr G will include the other three members of the trust who have all 
consented to our service looking into this complaint.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision dated 25 August 2022 
as follows:
Mr G set up the SIPP in 2010. He along with other relatives, are members of the trust (the 
scheme). PW is the administrator of the scheme. The scheme uses a stockbroker who Ill 
refer to as R. And also has a financial adviser.
In brief, Mr Gs oldest complaint relates to a matter that happened in 2016 and was dealt 
with in a final response letter from PW in January 2018. A subsequent final response dated 
29 April 2020 was issued by PW dealing with other matters. Mr G referred his complaints to 
our service on 17 August 2020.
Since he referred his complaint he has raised other matters, which PW has agreed our 
service can look into. A further final response letter was sent to Mr G on 15 January 2021. 
These dealt with some administrative matters, some of which form part of this complaint. 
Mr G was paid £500 for PW not providing a subject access request correctly. But he hasnt 
raised this as part of his complaint with our service.
In respect of the April 2020 final response letter, PW paid Mr G £1,000 for a number of 
mistakes it has made up to that point. After considering each complaint point referred to our 
service, our investigator agreed this amount fairly and reasonably compensated Mr G. 
Mr G disagreed. He wanted to be compensated for the time and effort hed spent on 
resolving PWs mistakes. He also said that whilst he was willing to accept the investigators 
view on some of the points, he disagreed with the investigator on several points as follows:
He should be automatically sent statements of other members of the scheme as he 
was previously.
He is unhappy that PW didnt send him the corrected P60 in time for it to be of use to 
him. He also says it had a legal obligation to provide him with a corrected one as 
soon as it noticed its error.
He told PW about the cash error with R but it took them another six weeks to act on 
this information. PW should have noticed the lack of cash on the statements.
He doesnt think PW has done enough to correct the error regarding the incorrect 
entry of the advisers fees.
The statements also show fees were paid but they were not for another two years. 
His main complaint on this is that he had assumed the fees had been taken when 
they had not. He should have been given notice of when they would be taken.
An actuary review should not be necessary for a one-off payment.
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought the compensation paid by PW was fair 
and reasonable amount for the errors it had made. I said I would not be asking it to pay 
anything further. In summary, Mr G made the following points which I will deal with below:
He said he was not made aware of the six-month time limit rule in respect of the final 
response letter dated 22 January 2018.
He maintains that he did not receive a corrected P60 and he still considers the word 
replaced was incorrect. He says the P60 was corrected not replaced.
He says that PW sent information regarding the fee to the financial adviser by letter, 
email, and phone but he says the financial adviser has no recollection of these. 
He says PW has sent letters labelled final when they were in fact, interim or have 
just amended them without explanation. 
Mr G said that one of the most important issues is that he is the controller of the 
scheme not PW. PW is simply there to decide how much and when to add to the 
fund. Mr G says with his extensive experience he, for example, decides how much 
each member should be allocated. 
Mr G says much has been made of the compensation he has been paid but he would 
pay this back if there was some way to do so. He never asked for this compensation.
He said that he did not want the findings of the decision published but if it is he wants 
the right to be allowed to rebuff nearly every point. 
He said the scheme would be in thousands of pounds in deficit if it had not been for 
him bringing the errors to light.
So the matter has been passed back to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the further representations made by Mr G in response to my 
provisional decision. But for the reasons set out below, I still consider the compensation paid 
by PW for its errors is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to do anything further. I 
will deal with Mr Gs further points after setting out what I said in my provisional decision 
which now forms part of my final decision, which is as follows:
Final response letter dated 22 January 2018
The 2016 renewal documents for the scheme were incorrect due to cash flow amounts for 
Mr and Mrs G being doubled. This matter was dealt with in a final response letter from PW 
dated 22 January 2018. Mr G had six months to refer his complaint to our service after this 
letter. This is set out in PWs final response letter and is in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook under the Dispute Resolution: Complaint (DISP) rules. And can be 
found under DISP 2.8.2 (1).
Mr G referred his complaint to our service on 17 August 2020. So this is clearly more than 
six months after PWs final response letter. This letter clearly said if the complaint was 
referred to us outside of the six-month time limit, PW would not give permission for us to 
consider it.Further, I cant see that any exceptional circumstances applied that would have prevented 
Mr G from bringing his complaint earlier. I appreciate he sadly suffered the loss of his wife in 
September 2018. However, he has been in communications with PW on many occasions 
during the point up until he referred his complaints to our service in August 2020. So, I dont 
think exceptional circumstances applies in this case.
Ill now consider Mr Gs other complaints that are within the April 2020 final response letter 
and the complaints he has referred to us whilst his case was with our service.
P60 Error and undated letters/ documents/ change of product name
For the period April 2019, an error was made by PW where a P60 form overstated the 
amount of tax paid. PW has accepted it made an error and updated HMRC within a month 
(May 2019). After Mr G used the incorrect P60 to complete his tax return, PW again 
contacted HMRC and corrected the error. It also updated Mr G about this on 29 April 2020.
I take Mr Gs point that by then it was too late to use the updated P60. And I know he 
considers PW had a legal obligation to send him a copy of the corrected P60. But given the 
steps it took to put things right and that this error was taken into account when it offered and 
paid Mr G £1,000 in compensation, Im satisfied PW has done enough to put things right for 
this particular error.
I note Mr G takes issue with PW using the word replaced rather than rectified. But I dont 
think this wording alters the situation and has caused no detriment to Mr G as far as I can 
see.
Mr G says a P60 and other correspondence sent to him by PW have been undated. From all 
the communications Ive seen, the vast majority are dated. And Mr G hasnt provided any 
evidence of a specific impact being caused by undated communications from PW.
Mr G is unhappy with the change in terminology used by PW in relation to some matters. But 
from what PW says this isnt something that happens frequently. But, again, I cant see that 
Mr G has been able to point to any specific detriment caused by changes in terminology.
Delays to emails and telephone blockers.
Mr G says he sometimes has to wait up to six months for correspondence to be answered by 
PW. And PW has delayed sending emails to him and the schemes adviser. But from the 
communications Ive seen, PW has answered the majority of his concerns within reasonable 
timeframes. As it noted, its response times will depend on a number of factors such as how 
many queries it gets at any one time and the nature of the call. Overall, I consider PW has 
acted fairly and reasonably in its response times to Mr Gs communications.
In terms of Mr Gs complaint about PW blocking him from speaking to someone 
knowledgeable or specific when he calls, how it handles calls is a legitimate business 
decision for it to make. I dont think it is acting unfairly or unreasonably by not putting Mr G 
through to a specific individual when he requests this.
Time taken to complete the claim on Mrs Gs pension
PW has confirmed that after Mrs G sadly died it was notified of this in September 2018. The 
members were then requested to provide information on 20 September 2018. This 
information was received by PW in November 2018. It was at this point the trustees of the 
scheme were able to review matters.PW wrote to Mr G in January 2019 to confirm his options via the schemes adviser. The 
application it received specified no income was to be paid. In September 2019, the adviser 
confirmed to PW that a monthly income of £1,500 was to be paid to Mr G from October 
2019.
Looking at all the circumstances as outlined above, from what I can see PW hadnt caused 
any delays to this process. And in any event, after it wrote to Mr G in January 2019 he didnt 
elect to draw any income until October 2019. So, even if there was a delay to the process 
from November 2018 to January 2019, which Im not persuaded there was, it doesnt appear 
to have caused any delay to Mr G receiving an income. I also note that whilst it isnt a 
standard process to provide statements for this type of claim, PW acted fairly and 
reasonably by providing this information to Mr G without any delays once it had all the 
relevant details.
However, I can see PW did send a letter addressed to Mrs G after she had died. I appreciate 
the distress this caused Mr G. PW has apologised for this error and also included this error 
as part of the compensation it paid to Mr G. I think this was a fair and reasonable step to 
take given the circumstances.
Fees and provision of incorrect information
I see PW mistakenly recorded the schemes advisers fees on statements sent to Mr G. 
Whilst this was an incorrect entry on the paperwork, no deductions were made. So, no 
financial detriment has been suffered by the scheme or by Mr G personally as a result. I 
understand seeing a sum that wasnt owed would have been distressing for Mr G but PW 
has recognised this error and included this mistake in its offer of £1,000 which I think is fair. 
Mr G says PW needs to establish whether this error was done deliberately by a member of 
its staff in order to, for example, misappropriate funds from the scheme. But, in my view, PW 
has provided Mr G with a reasonable explanation as to why the mistake happened and why 
its process was unlikely to allow a misappropriation in the way he describes. On balance, 
Im satisfied this was a genuine mistake by PW which it corrected once it investigated 
matters.
Similarly, Ive seen no evidence from Mr G that PW has deliberately or maliciously provided 
him with incorrect information. It seems to me in every instance of an error, PW has 
investigated the issue and corrected the position where necessary. I also think, on balance, 
it would seek to avoid a situation rather than deliberately cause one given the time and effort 
it has to put into correcting the errors.
I can see that PW has accepted and apologised for the delay in completing the scheme 
renewal due on 18 August 2019. And it had taken this matter into account in terms of the 
£1,000 it had paid to Mr G.
I understand Mr Gs main point on this  that he assumed the fees had already been paid 
and doesnt think PW should be able to take the fees given the delays  but all the work 
required for the scheme had been completed. So, I dont think PW is being unfair or 
unreasonable for taking the fees that were due for this work. And I think its offer of 
compensation for the error is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In late July 2020, Mr G discovered that the valuation of the scheme was incorrect and had 
been undervalued by £18,005. This was due to cash not being added from the stockbroking 
account with R as of 18 August 2018.PW explained that when it contacted R for valuations it was provided with information it 
thought was a complete valuation of everything in the account with R. PW also said the 
valuations it received from R, included a cash entry column and there was no indication that 
there was a separate holdings not included in the statement. PW confirmed when it received 
clarification that it had not received all the cash information associated with the account it re-
ran the calculations and issued revised documents.
Looking at this situation, I think PW acted in good faith and as our investigator said, it was 
reasonable for it to rely on the information it had been given by R. I can see that PW has 
now agreed a specific wording with R to prevent a similar situation arising again. Mr G thinks 
PW should have noticed the lack of cash earlier. But, as I said, I think it is entitled to rely on 
information provided by R to produce its annual statements. And it has taken remedial steps 
to prevent the same situation arising again. I think in all the circumstances, PW has acted 
reasonably and fairly once it discovered the error.
Statements and information from PW
Mr G says that PW should send annual statements to each member of the scheme. But I 
think PW is entitled to make a business decision on this. And Im sure if each member wants 
a statement, they can request one directly from PW.
Further, in terms of Mr G receiving information about each member, as PW explained to him, 
whilst investments are pooled and held together, each individual membership in the scheme 
is that members personal information. I dont think PW is acting unreasonably by not 
providing each members personal information to Mr G. It said in its letter dated 5 August 
2020, that at that point, it didnt have written authority from the other scheme members to 
provide the details of their memberships to Mr G and this means it could not release that 
information to him.
Whilst Mr G says he has authority from the relevant members to receive the information, he 
has not provided this evidence to our service. And from what I can see at the point he 
requested this information from PW, it didnt have the correct authority. If this situation has 
changed since bringing his complaint to our service, he will need to update PW. But as far as 
I can see, PW had acted reasonably and fairly when he made his initial request in 2020. 
Mr G raised an issue of payslips not being received. But PW said its records show these 
were sent for all payments made since August 2019. I note it arranged to resend these to 
Mr G following his complaint. So, even if he didnt receive these initially, I think the matter 
has now fairly and reasonably been put right.
Mr G doesnt think the information he received from PW in respect of all the monies in and 
out of the SIPP since it began in 2010, was sufficient. But I can see the statements PW has 
sent Mr G in letters dated 5 August 2020 and 16 March 2021 provides sufficiently clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the transactions that have happened since 2010. I 
dont think PW has to do anything further.
Actuarial Review
The scheme is reviewed every three years and actuaries decide on the level of sustainable 
income for each member following each review. I also note that the 2019 review was 
amended in 2020 to take account of the mistake around the cash balance (see above). Mr G 
complains that because his pension hadnt increased following a three yearly review carried 
out in August 2019, he thought the calculations were arbitrary and had no bearing on life 
expectancy or increased value of the pension. But the figures he refers to were carried out 
by a qualified actuary so I dont think there are any grounds to say the figures were arbitrary. I can see a copy of the actuaries report to support the findings which clearly sets 
out the methodology used.
Mr G has said PW shouldnt charge for the actuary fees as he doesnt think they have 
provided value for it given he thinks the figures are arbitrary. But as Ive said, he has been 
sent the actuary report which clearly shows the work has been done. So, I dont think PW is 
being unfair or unreasonable for charging for the work done by its actuaries.
In March 2021 Mr G contacted PW to ask that the scheme pension review from 2019 was 
amended as he now needed additional income  he says he just wanted a one-off payment. 
He also wanted the issues around the cash balance (see above) to be taken into account. 
Following correspondence with PW, it said the actuaries had reviewed the scheme 
information and proposed that the most appropriate resolution was to complete an additional 
scheme pension review using a scheme valuation as at 18 March 2021. As a gesture of 
goodwill, it said it would waive the normal charge for completing this. But Mr G said that PW 
should increase his pension without the need for a review. PW wrote to Mr G to confirm its 
actuaries were not willing to sign off the income increase without a new review due to 
significant changes in market conditions.
Whilst Mr G doesnt see the need for a new review because he only wants a one-off 
payment, given what the actuaries have said about the changes to market conditions since 
2019, I dont think PW is being unreasonable here. It has offered to cover the actuary fees 
so if Mr G doesnt want a review carried out before the next review date, that is a choice for 
him to make. I consider PW has acted fairly and reasonably regarding Mr Gs request for a 
new review and an increase in his income. As it said, which Mr G said he would pursue, he 
also has the option to look to take a one-off payment via his flexi-access drawdown.
Conclusion
In terms of the matters Mr G has referred to our service, whilst PW has made several 
administrative errors I think the £1,000 it paid him in 2020 for the errors up to that point 
sufficiently cover these matters. For all the reasons set out above, I havent seen anything in 
Mr Gs subsequent complaints, that would fairly or reasonably warrant an increase in what it 
has already been paid.
I also note Mr Gs wider point about the number of errors he has dealt with. And that he 
wants our service to take a broader view of things to save other customers the same issues. 
Our role at the Financial Ombudsman Service is to look at the individual complaint and 
where matters have gone wrong, ask the business to put things right. We are not the 
regulator for PW or other financial businesses. For the reasons Ive set out above, I think PW 
has taken appropriate and reasonable steps to put things right. And Im not intending to ask 
it to do anything further.
In terms of the further points Mr G has made he hasnt added anything substantially new. I 
can see the final response letter dated 22 January 2018 did have referral rights and did say 
if the matter wasnt brought to our service within six months, PW would not consent to us 
looking at it. So, I do think Mr G was clearly told about this.
I have answered Mr Gs point about the P60 and have nothing further to add to what Ive 
said above. Similarly, I know Mr G takes issues with some of the wording used by PW such 
as final or interim but as Ive said in relation to other similar issues, I cant see this has 
caused him or the trust any detriment.On balance, I consider PW corrected the errors about the fees. Im not clear what point Mr G 
is making about information sent to his financial adviser but if he thinks any statements 
havent been sent to his financial adviser, Im sure PW can arrange for this to be done. 
Mr G said that one of the most important issues is that he is the controller of the scheme 
not PW. I dont doubt Mr G has a pivotal role in managing the scheme but ultimately that 
doesnt entitle him to the information about other scheme holders without their consent. 
The compensation Mr G was paid of £1,000 was paid and accepted at the time. Even if he 
had not accepted this payment, I would still conclude this level of compensation was fair and 
reasonable in light of the mistakes that PW has made. As he has already accepted the 
payment, I do not need to ask the business to do anything further. 
Mr G says he did not want the findings of the decision published. However, all of our 
decisions are published. Further, Mr G has had an opportunity to rebuff every point Ive 
made as I have issued a provisional decision. This does not happen in every case, so he 
has had an opportunity to provide further submissions in response to my findings which have 
been repeated in my final decision. 
I note what Mr G says about saving the scheme thousands of pounds but my role is to 
decide whether, on balance, PW has done anything wrong and to put matters right if it has. 
In this case, I consider the level of compensation it has paid him for the errors it has made is 
fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
Phoenix Wealth Services Limited has already paid £1,000 for the errors it has made to the 
trust to which Mr G belongs. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount for the reasons Ive 
set out above and I will not be asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Mr G, Mr G 
and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman