DRN-3148652
The complaint
Ms D complains because Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to Chaucer include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.
Ms Ds complaint has been brought to us by a representative. All references to Ms Ds 
submissions, where relevant, include those of her representative. 
What happened
Ms D held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Chaucer. The policy was 
purchased through an independent broker on 27 February 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel due to the pandemic. 
Ms D was due to travel abroad on 22 September 2020, on a trip that had been postponed 
from March 2020. On 3 September 2020, the accommodation provider said that flight 
cancellations and FCDO advice prevented Ms Ds attendance on her upcoming trip. On both 
3 September 2020 and 22 September 2020, the FCDO was advising against all but essential 
travel to Ms Ds intended destination.  
Ms D made a claim under her policy with Chaucer for her non-refundable, unused 
accommodation costs. Chaucer said the claim wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Ms Ds policy. It initially quoted a policy exclusion from a later version of its 
policies, which didnt appear in Ms Ds policy. Chaucer subsequently said Ms Ds claim 
wasnt covered as an insured event under the cancellation section of her policy, and 
because of an exclusion in her policy relating to epidemics. Unhappy, Ms D complained to 
Chaucer before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Chaucer 
had unfairly declined Ms Ds claim. Ms D didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds policy is provided (underwritten) by Chaucer, so Chaucer is the business responsible 
for assessing her claim and is the business responsible for any complaint about the wording 
of the terms and conditions of the policy. When making my decision about this complaint, Ill 
only be considering what Chaucer is responsible for. Ms Ds policy was sold by an 
independent broker. Chaucer isnt responsible for the brokers actions, and vice versa. If Ms 
D is unhappy with the way in which this policy was sold, shed need to raise this with the 
broker in the first instance before this service would have the power to consider the matter. 
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business) 
say that a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms 
Ds complaint. 
I understand that the situation which Ms D found herself in was unprecedented and 
exceptional. I also understand that, when Ms D took out this policy, the circumstances that 
unfolded surrounding Covid-19 were unforeseen by both consumers and by insurers. But 
this doesnt mean her claim is automatically covered under her policy.
No insurance policy covers every situation, and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of 
risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. Its up to a policyholder 
to ensure that they have a level of cover which meets their needs. The level of cover 
available under travel insurance policies can vary widely and the fact that other consumers 
may have had their claims paid under different insurance policies with different terms and 
conditions is of no relevance to Ms Ds complaint. Its not my role to tell insurers what cover I 
think they should provide. Instead, my remit is to consider whether I think Chaucer acted 
fairly and reasonably when assessing Ms Ds claim under the terms and conditions of the 
policy she holds. 
Chaucers obligations under its contract with Ms D are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in her policy. The level of cover provided is defined, not just by 
the policy exclusions, but also by the listed, insured events which are set out as covered 
under each section of the policy. If the circumstances of a claim dont fit within one of the 
listed, insured events then, generally, that claim wont be covered under the policy.
Ms Ds policy, under the heading Cancellation & Curtailment says Chaucer will pay certain 
costs if a policyholder cancels a trip for one of the following reasons:
The unexpected and unforeseen serious illness, bodily injury or death of You, a 
Close Relative or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay during 
the Trip. 
You abandoning Your Trip following the delay of more than twenty four (24) hours in 
the departure of Your outward flight  as a result of Strike or Industrial Action (for 
which You were unaware at the time You booked the Trip), adverse weather 
conditions, or the mechanical breakdown of, or accident of, the Public Transport 
aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
Your compulsory quarantine or You or any person with whom You plan to travel 
being called up for Jury Service or being subpoenaed as a witness in a Court of Law 
(other than in a professional or advisory capacity). 
If You are made Redundant and You qualify for Redundancy payment under current 
legislation.... 
Accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting Your Home. 
If You become pregnant after We have sold You this policy (or booked Your Trip, whichever is earlier, if You have an Annual Multi-trip policy) and You will be more 
than thirty-two (32) weeks pregnant at the start of, or during, Your Trip. Or, Your 
Doctor advises that You are not fit to travel because You are suffering from 
Complications of Pregnancy or Childbirth.
You are a member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services 
and You are required to stay in Your Home area because of an emergency or You 
are posted overseas unexpectedly. 
Your passport, or the passport of any person You intend to travel with being stolen 
during the seven (7) days before Your booked date of departure.
Ms Ds trip wasnt cancelled for any of these reasons. This means the circumstances of her 
claim arent covered under the Cancellation & Curtailment section of her policy. Ive also 
reviewed the remaining sections of Ms Ds policy, but I dont think she held any cover for the 
circumstances she found herself in. 
There may be certain circumstances where, based on the relevant policy documentation, I 
might consider it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to depart from a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms and to accept a claim for cancellation of a trip due to FCDO 
advice regardless. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Chaucer to do 
so here. This is because Ms Ds policy also contains two exclusions which are, I think, 
relevant to the circumstances of her claim.
The general exclusions of Ms Ds policy say:
No Section of this policy shall apply in respect of: 
41. This policy does not cover any liability, loss, cost or expense arising out of, 
resulting from, caused or contributed to any other virus or infectious disease that is 
declared to be an outbreak or epidemic by the World Health Organisation
The WHO declared Covid-19 as a pandemic on 11 March 2020. An internationally accepted 
definition of a pandemic is an epidemic occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, 
crossing international boundaries and usually affecting a large number of people. So, Im 
satisfied that its fair to consider this exclusion as also applying to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The exclusion doesnt only apply to an epidemic declared after a trip was booked  it applies 
to any WHO declared epidemic, regardless of when that declaration happened. 
I therefore dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Chaucer to rely on the above exclusion 
to turn down Ms Ds claim. 
Ive considered what Ms D has said about the consequence of the above exclusion  and 
whether this means that a policyholder who was abroad when Covid-19 was declared a 
pandemic would have no cover whatsoever under their policy. Thats not how I interpret 
exclusion 41. I think that Exclusion 41 means there is no cover relating to claims arising from 
an epidemic  not that a policyholder has no cover whatsoever under any section of the 
policy if an epidemic is declared. Furthermore, I wouldnt generally consider it fair or 
reasonable for an insurer to interpret an exclusion such as the above in a manner that meant 
any policyholder abroad at the time the pandemic was declared  regardless of their 
circumstances  would have their insurance cover invalidated in its entirety. 
And, even if I were to accept what Ms D has said in this regard, I think theres another 
exclusion in Ms Ds policy which applies to the circumstances of her claim anyway. The Cancellation & Curtailment section of Ms Ds policy, under the heading What is not 
covered specifically excludes claims arising from:
o) prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country. 
At the time Ms Ds trip was cancelled (and on her intended departure date), Ms Ds intended 
destination wasnt on the FCDOs list of countries which were exempt from advice against 
all but essential travel. So, Im satisfied that the circumstances of Ms Ds claim would also 
fall within exclusion o).  
I understand Chaucer originally told Ms D that her claim wasnt covered under her policy 
because of a particular policy exclusion relating to Covid-19. This was incorrect. The policy 
exclusion which Chaucer originally quoted applied to policies sold at a later time. It would 
have been helpful if Chaucer had quoted the correct policy exclusions from the outset, but 
Chaucer has said the reason it didnt was because its systems automatically access the 
latest version of its policy documents. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was anything 
other than a genuine mistake on Chaucers part and Chaucer subsequently re-assessed Ms 
Ds claim under the correct version of the policy wording, as Id have expected it to do. 
So, overall, I dont think Ms Ds claim is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy 
she held, and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
Chaucer to accept her claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, but I wont be directing Chaucer to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman