DRN-1086581
Complaint
Mr H says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Smart Pig.com) irresponsibly provided a 
number of unaffordable loans to him.                          
Background
This complaint is about eight instalment loans that Smart Pig provided to Mr H between 
November 2014 and January 2016. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 4 to 8. Smart Pig didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Smart Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Smart Pig should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Smart Pigs lending history with Mr H, I think that Smart Pig should reasonably have seen that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to make his 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided Mr H with loan 4. 
I say this because I think that by this stage Mr H was exhibiting a borrowing pattern of taking 
new loans shortly after repaying previous ones. And the breaks between loans went on to 
become shorter and shorter to the extent that loan 8, which Mr H proved unable to repay, 
was taken on the same day that loan 7 was repaid.
Smart Pig continued lending to Mr H even when this pattern was repeated, when it was 
aware that his income was predominately in the form of student loans, and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr H had to pay and is being expected to pay interest and charges on loans that Smart Pig 
shouldnt have provided. So I think that he lost out and Smart Pig should put things right.
Putting things right  what Smart Pig needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 4 to 7;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 8 from the outset. The payments Mr H 
made, whether to Smart Pig or any third-party debt collector, should then be 
deducted from the new starting balance. In other words, Smart Pig needs to ensure 
Mr H pays no more than the £350 he was initially lent. If, after all adjustments have 
been made, an outstanding balance remains, Smart Pig can deduct from what it now 
needs to pay Mr H if it buys the debt back. Smart Pig is not entitled to make a 
deduction for any debt it doesnt own at the time of settlement;
 
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded about loans 4 to 8 
is adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart Pig to take off tax from this interest. Smart Pig 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. FCL Consumer 
Finance Ltd should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman