DRN-2871606
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.  
  
What happened
Mrs W had her car insurance with Admiral and when she made a claim under her policy it 
turned down the claim and looked to recover costs from her. This was because it decided 
that she was responsible for the accident. And because it said she was unaccompanied at 
the time of the accident when she should have been as she was a learner driver.
Mrs W complained to Admiral. She maintained that the other driver was at fault and that she 
was accompanied at the time of the accident  it was just that the accompanying driver 
couldnt access the car as the parking spot that she was reversing from was too tight for 
them to get in the car. But Admiral maintained its position and looked to recover over 
£10,000 in costs from Mrs W. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her and partly upheld her complaint. Although he 
didnt think that Admiral had done anything wrong in deciding liability, he didnt think it had 
acted fairly in choosing not to deal with the claim under the policy and pursuing Mrs W for 
the costs it incurred.
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of the complaint which is well 
known to both sides. But I will focus on the key issues that remain disputed.
In looking at liability, and as our investigator explained, Admiral has the right under the policy 
to take over the settlement of the claim. It isnt the role of this Service to decide liability which 
is a matter for the courts. In effect the insurer decides whether to take the other driver to 
court or to settle a claim as it has in this instance. Insurers take account of the fact that legal 
proceedings are time consuming and the outcome can be uncertain. So insurers use their 
significant experience in the area to make decisions around liability which they are entitled to 
do.
However, this Service does expect insurers to act in a fair and reasonable way in making 
their decisions about liability. So, Ive carefully considered how Admiral has handled the 
liability aspect of Mrs Ws claim. And having done so I think it has acted reasonably and with 
a clear understanding of the circumstances surrounding the accident. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, especially as the third party was 
proceeding in the wrong direction on the one-way car park system. But as Admiral has 
explained the greater onus was on Mrs W as she was reversing out of the parking space. 
And given the other difficulties with the case (see below) it was unlikely that Admiral 
wouldve been able to defend Mrs W in court. And I think the best outcome Mrs W couldve 
gained was a 50/50 split liability decision but that would still leave her with a fault claim in 
any event. 
However, although I think Admiral dealt with liability in a fair and reasonable way, I dont 
think it dealt with Mrs W fairly when it declined her claim under the policy and pursued her 
for costs. Ill explain why.
Mrs W had drove to work on the day of the accident and had parked in a private works car 
park. She was accompanied by a colleague at the time and when she went to go home she 
realised that the car next to her was so close that her accompanying driver couldnt get in 
the car. So, Mrs W edged out of the car parking space while the accompanying driver 
oversaw things from the front of the car. Unfortunately, Mrs W was involved in an accident 
and Admiral turned down the claim as the accompanying driver wasnt in the vehicle at the 
time. 
While I understand Admirals position, I think this produces an overly harsh outcome in this 
case. Admiral seemed to presume that Mrs W wasnt accompanied at all at one stage. But it 
is clear that this wasnt the case and Mrs W was very clear and honest about all of this from 
the start. And Im not persuaded that the accompanying driver wouldve had any input in 
stopping the accident in any event. And in some ways was more likely to see what was 
happening from the front of the car  indeed it is a shame that they werent at the rear of the 
car as Im sure their view and assistance wouldve been more helpful, in relation to stopping 
the accident. As they wouldve been able to see and stop the other driver from driving the 
wrong way around the car park or been able to gesture to Mrs W to stop. I certainly dont 
think it follows that they wouldve been able to take any additional steps from inside the car 
as it wasnt dual controlled. 
Furthermore, as Mrs W highlighted the accident took place on a private gated work car park 
that wasnt accessed by the general public. As such Im not persuaded, on the information 
before me, that Mrs W was on what could be described as a public road. And this opens the 
door to the possibility that the accompanying driver didnt have to be in the car in any event.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for the complaint to be upheld. It is clear that Mrs W had a qualified 
accompanying driver with her at the time of the incident, it is just a shame that they couldnt 
access the car due to the tight location and so I think the complaint should be upheld. And 
Admiral should stop pursuing Mrs W for its costs and cover any additional costs she has 
incurred. I know Mrs W also disputes the level of costs Admiral has paid out under the claim, 
but she wont be responsible for these now and as Ive already mentioned I think liability was 
dealt with in a fair way.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to stop pursuing Mrs W for costs and settle the claim in line with 
her motor insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman