DRN-3935124
The complaint
Ms M has complained that esure Insurance Limited trading as esure has undervalued her 
vehicle following a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
A third party collided with Ms M, so she submitted a claim to esure. Her vehicle was deemed 
a total loss and esure offered her £6,256 to settle the claim. It said this represented the 
market value of her vehicle.
But Ms M doesnt think this offer is fair and wants esure to pay what she thinks the vehicle is 
worth. Ms M says this vehicle is worth at least £7,500 to £8,500. She says she cant find a 
similar spec of this model on sale for less than £8k.
Ms M says this specific model of vehicle got an upgrade or a facelift in 2017, and that the 
value esure has provided is for the older model, not the upgraded model she has. Shes 
provided links to cars selling at a higher price than esure is offering. Ms M says esures 
approach is leaving her in a worse off position than she was in before the accident.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint and said that the market value 
esure had placed on Ms Ms vehicle was fair. 
But Ms M doesnt agree, and shes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March 2023. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What I provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M says the value that esure has placed on her vehicle is incorrect and is leaving her in a 
worse position than she was in pre-accident. She says because small cars are now so 
popular, there is no scope for negotiation, and she says the guides are not based on her 
real-world experience. Ms M says the model of vehicle she had underwent a major facelift in 
2017 and says esure is not taking this into consideration. 
This service has an established approach to valuation cases https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs And when looking at the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company, I have to consider the approach the insurer has adopted to decide whether the 
valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact 
valuation for a consumers vehicle. Our approach is to consider whether esure has settled 
Ms Ms claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, fairly and reasonably using 
our established approach. 
So, Ive considered the terms of the policy and the offer made. And I can see that in the 
event the vehicle cant be repaired, esure wont pay more than the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your 
vehicle for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on vehicles of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when 
you purchased the car."
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Ms Ms vehicle at the time of the incident 
and they produced a range in values from £6,125 to £6,430.
Ms M says the model of car she had was an upgrade on the previous model. She says this 
means its worth more. Shes provided links to a number of 2017 models with similar 
mileage. 
So, I did a bit of research on this. Firstly, I contacted a manufacturing dealership and it 
confirmed an upgrade to this specific make and model in 2017. I then contacted the garage 
where Ms M bought the vehicle in 2017. It provided the vehicle details from the spec sheet of 
this car. But this spec sheet didnt specifically confirm if Ms M had the upgraded model. The 
garage did however advise me that as per its system that the upgraded model came on the 
market in March/April 2017. I then reviewed the manufacturers website and it had a press 
release from February 2017. This press release said the upgraded model was premiered at 
the Geneva International Motor Show on 7-19 March 2017.
During my call with the garage that sold Ms M her vehicle I asked it to confirm the date of 
registration. It said that the vehicle had been registered on 2 February 2017. Because this 
date is before the official launch date of the upgraded make and model of this vehicle, and 
because I have no evidence to tell me otherwise, I think its more likely than not, that Ms M 
owned the pre upgrade version of this vehicle, the one that came before the March 2017 
facelift.
Ms M also says that the trade guides the industry use dont reflect real world prices. I agree 
with Ms M when she says that the car market is volatile, and I agree that small vehicles are 
popular, and their values have increased. But these impacts are reflected in the motor trade 
guides. The guides are based on both sales and advertised prices across the UK and Im 
confident they are a solid reflection of whats happening on the ground in the UK motor 
trade. 
We use four different motor trade guides to make sure we are getting a wide scope of data. 
As Ms Ms argument about the upgrade in models was particularly strong, I used the sample 
of vehicles listed as recently sold on one particular valuation guide to see if there really was 
a difference.  I used four different real registrations, all registered in 2017, all approximately 
the same mileage as Ms Ms vehicle. What I found was that three of these models were 
coming in at approximately the same value as what esure was valuing Ms Ms car at. The 
remaining car was a higher value. So, I looked at the registration dates and using the vehicle 
enquiry service on the UK government website, I can see that the first three cars in my 
sample were all registered in early 2017. The last one was at the end of the year. This 
research gives weight to the fact that there was an upgrade in 2017, and this upgrade has 
impacted the price of 2017 vehicles of similar make and model to Ms Ms vehicle. But it 
suggests that this upgraded model only came to market later in the year and any increase in 
valuation only affects models registered later in 2017. I would also point out that I used both the registration number and the VIN number on Ms Ms specific vehicle to achieve a 
valuation where possible, and the result was the same. 
I know Ms M feels she is being left in a worse position by the value esure has placed on her 
vehicle. But I think her view of the value of her vehicle is being skewed by the fact there 
were two different versions of the same car available in the same year. This means that 
there will be a marked difference in prices when you search for the 2017 model of Ms Ms 
vehicle. But based on what Ive seen and been told, I think its more likely than not that Ms 
Ms car was the pre upgrade version of this vehicle. As such, I think the value esure has 
provided for this vehicle is fair as per the guides and samples Ive seen, and its approach is 
in line with both our approach and its own policy term. 
I know Ms M will be disappointed. But based on what Ive seen Im not planning on 
upholding this complaint. 
I sent my provisional decision on 2 March 2023. esure didnt respond. Ms M did. 
Ms M says that the vehicle she had was definitely the upgraded model. She has provided us 
with a photo of her specific car and a description shes found online of the upgraded 
features. This says the upgraded model has a wider grille, with integrated square fog lights 
with LED daytime running lights. Ms M says the garage she bought the car from pre-
registered the car before she received it and that it was a demonstration version of the 
upgraded model. She says they bought the car in late 2017 and that esure should be able to 
verify the model. 
We replied to Ms M. We advised that she would need to provide more evidence to support 
the fact that she says her car is the upgraded model. We suggested that she should contact 
the selling garage to support what shes saying, and we reminded her of the deadline to 
respond. Ms M hasnt responded to this email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The photo Ms M sent us is helpful, but its not clear enough to definitively prove that the 
model she had is the upgraded one. The upgrades to the vehicle are subtle, so its hard to 
find them unless you really look. For example, the upgraded model has a reprofiled bonnet. 
But if you compare the photo Ms M has provided of her car alongside a photo of the new 
upgraded model, both the grille and the bonnet of her vehicle look like they were on the older 
version. The photo of Ms Ms vehicle is quite dark, and the car is black. But even if I enlarge 
the photo, I cant see a reprofiled bonnet, and the indent at the top of the grille isnt as 
prominent as it is on the upgraded model seen in the attachments Ms M has sent us.
Further to this, when I spoke to Ms Ms selling garage before I issued my provisional 
decision it said it couldnt tell from the vehicle spec sheet which model it sold to Ms M. All it 
could confirm was that this car was registered in February 2017 and that the upgraded 
model didnt launch until March 2017. The upgraded model didnt hit the market until later in 
that year.
As I set out in my provisional decision, my role is to consider whether esure has settled 
Ms Ms claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, fairly and reasonably using 
our established approach. And based on what Ive seen on this file, it has. I understand and 
acknowledge the version of events surrounding the purchase of this vehicle as told to us by 
Ms M. It may well be that she purchased a demonstration model, and it may feature some of the upgrades. But even looking at the photo provided, I cant see the main upgrade features. 
This could be because of the nature of the photo, or maybe theyre just not there. But either 
way, as I cant confirm that Ms Ms vehicle is the upgraded model of this vehicle, and no 
further evidence has been submitted, I can only conclude that esure did value the correct 
version of the vehicle which was registered in February 2017. 
Im persuaded that the valuation provided by esure is fair and reasonable and was carried 
out in line with our established approach. As such I see no reason to depart from my findings 
as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman