DRN-2759652
The complaint
Mr F complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA refused to uphold his claim for a refund 
of £10,000 under its buyer protection policy.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr F bought two consignments of massage guns from a third party overseas 
(the seller) and paid £5,000 for each of them using his PayPal account. He intended to sell 
them to his own customers for a profit. Not long beforehand, his brother had also bought 
some massage guns and paid for them with his own PayPal account. His brothers complaint 
about that is being dealt with separately, but I mention it here because one of the massage 
guns his brother sold exploded, and his customer complained and provided video evidence 
of the aftermath. As a result, Mr F suspected that the massage guns he had bought were 
also defective, and so he sought the opinion of a third party, a repair shop. In May 2020 he 
raised two disputes under PayPals buyer protection policy, one for each consignment. In 
support of his claims, Mr F provided a letter from the repair shop which said that the goods 
were defective.
PayPal accepted that its buyer protection policy applied to these transactions, but it was not 
satisfied with the evidence from the repair shop, as it was not detailed enough. Mr F 
obtained further, more detailed evidence from two other third parties, this time from national 
chain stores, which both said that the massage guns were counterfeit, and did not work.
Meanwhile, on 18 June, PayPal obtained the sellers agreement to refund the cost of one of 
the shipments, on condition that Mr F returned the goods. Mr F returned that consignment 
and provided the tracking number to PayPal. However, that refund has never been paid. And 
three days later, PayPal told Mr F that his claim in relation to the second consignment had 
been rejected. Mr F brought this complaint to our Service.
PayPal explained that the reason for not paying the refunds was because Mr F had raised a 
chargeback with his bank in respect of the goods. This meant that under the terms of its 
buyer protection policy, the policy had ceased to apply to both transactions. Mr Fs only 
remedies were the chargeback (if it succeeded), or to pursue the seller directly. There was 
nothing more that PayPal could do for him.
Our investigator did not accept that argument. He said that although Mr F had asked his 
bank for advice about chargeback in June, this had not proceeded beyond making enquiries. 
No chargeback had actually been raised until 21 July, which was two weeks after the seller 
received the first consignment back, and a full month after PayPal told Mr F that it had 
declined his claim in respect of the other consignment. He therefore thought that the 
chargeback was not a satisfactory explanation. There had been no reason to treat the two 
consignments differently, since Mr F had always been willing to return the other consignment 
as well. He thought there was clear evidence that the goods were faulty, and so PayPal 
should have refunded them both, before the chargeback had been raised.
The investigator added that Mr F had only raised a chargeback claim after PayPal stopped 
communicating with him (having closed his disputes), and that Mr F would never have raised 
a chargeback in the first place if PayPal had not rejected his claims first.
The investigator recommended that PayPal refund both transactions, and pay interest on the 
refunds at eight per cent a year. Mr F accepted that proposal. PayPal did not respond to it. 
So the investigator referred this case for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint, for broadly similar reasons to those 
our investigator gave.
I accept that the massage guns in both consignments were defective. I have seen the 
evidence which Mr F obtained from three independent third parties, and while the first letter 
he obtained is sparse on detail, the later evidence makes it clear that the goods are 
defective, as well as being counterfeit. I accept that evidence, which was provided in June 
and July. But I also take into account the fact that the seller had agreed to accept one of the 
consignments back in exchange for a full refund. That suggests that, in the ordinary course 
of events, his claim under PayPals buyer protection scheme would have succeeded. I think 
that in due course, his claim about the other consignment would have succeeded too.
The fly in the ointment is the pair of chargeback claims. PayPals buyer protection policy 
states that it will cease to apply to any transaction which becomes the subject of a 
chargeback. There are good reasons for that rule, such as avoiding double recovery, so 
there is nothing wrong with that exception in principle. However, I do not accept that it was 
fair  or entirely accurate  to apply it in Mr Fs case.
The reason I say it was not accurate is because no chargeback dispute was actually raised 
until 21 July. That was after all but one of the letters he obtained to support his claim, more 
than a month after the agreement to refund the price of the first consignment, and two weeks 
after the seller got his goods back.
Mr F says that he only raised a chargeback after a month had passed since he had returned 
the goods, and PayPal had stopped responding to him. That does not suggest that he was 
seeking double recovery. Indeed, he only raised a chargeback well after one of his PayPal 
claims had already been declined and closed on 21 June. It is not clear why he had still not 
been refunded, two weeks after the seller had got the goods back. So I am satisfied that his 
claim under the buyer protection policy, in relation to the returned consignment, should have 
succeeded, notwithstanding the chargeback. It should have already been upheld before 21 
July. Then the question of chargeback would not even have arisen in the first place.
I have noted that Mr F asked his bank about the chargeback process in June. But since he 
did not begin that process then, I dont think that was enough to terminate the buyer 
protection policy in relation to the transactions. His bank specifically advised him not to raise 
a chargeback at that time, but to continue to pursue his claims with PayPal, and he followed 
that advice.
As Ive said, on 21 June PayPal declined Mr Fs claim in relation to the other consignment. 
Its not clear why the outcome of this claim was different to the other one, which only three 
days earlier had been resolved in principle, or why it took longer to deal with (the claims 
having been raised at the same time, on 28 May). The evidence that the goods were faulty 
was relevant to both batches, and Mr F was willing to return both batches. No chargeback 
disputes had been raised yet. I am satisfied that Mr F would not have raised a chargeback claim at all, if his claim with PayPal had been resolved. So I think that the outcome of that 
claim ought to have been the same as the other. I will therefore uphold this complaint in 
relation to both transactions.
Putting things right
I think that fair compensation would be to require PayPal to refund both transactions, and to 
pay interest on the refunds from 8 July (being the day after the date on which the seller 
received the goods Mr F sent back) to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to pay 
Mr F £10,000, and also to pay him simple interest on that sum from 8 July 2020 to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman