DRN-3841593
The complaint
Mr K complains that a cheque paid into his account with London Community Credit Union 
Limited (LCC) went missing.
What happened
On 15 October 2021, Mr K paid in a cheque for £3,048.46 at a branch of LCC. It wasnt 
credited to his account and he visited the branch on 2 November 2021 to find out what had 
happened. The cheque was cashed on 22 October 2021. Mr K raised a complaint with LCC 
in February 2022 and his account was credited with the amount on 30 March 2022.
Mr K complained. He said that when he visited the branch of LCC to pay in the cheque  the 
cashier provided his membership number for the paying in slip. So  the error must have 
been LCCs. He said hed raised the matter with LCC in November 2021 but had been 
fobbed off. He said he was only taken seriously when our service began an investigation  
in February 2022. Even though the money had then been credited to his account  it took 
five months to get things sorted out. And during that time, he said had the stress and worry 
about where the money had gone. It ruined his Christmas plans and a family holiday  as he 
was concerned he wouldnt get the money back. 
LCC didnt provide a formal response to Mr K, nor an explanation of what had happened. 
They didnt provide our service with information  other than they told us the matter had 
been resolved, as the cheque was credited to Mr Ks account on 30 March 2022.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said LCC hadnt acted reasonably. Mr K 
had raised the matter with LCC on 2 November 2021 and it had taken five months to sort 
things out. LCC hadnt provided any evidence to show what happened in the meantime. And 
they hadnt engaged meaningfully with Mr K either. Mr K had suffered a lot of worry and 
stress as a result and hadnt had the use of the money for five months. So, our investigator 
said Mr K should receive compensation of £200; plus 8% per annum simple on £3,048.46 for 
the time he was without the funds.
LCC didnt respond and so Mr Ks complaint came to me to make a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing to see that LCC didnt address what happened with Mr K at a much earlier 
stage  Mr K visited the branch concerned on 2 November 2021. But didnt get any 
resolution. He felt he was ignored and LCC werent interested in his problem. Its also 
disappointing to note that LCC havent sent Mr K a formal response to his complaint  nor 
engaged with us to give us information, nor a response to our investigators view. So  I 
must base my decision largely on what Mr K has told us.
LCC told us that the sum of £3,048.46 was credited to Mr Ks account on 30 March 2022. 
They also showed us the credit slip completed by Mr K  and I can see that this showed a 
membership number which was one digit different to the number shown on Mr Ks 
statement. LCC havent told us how that may have happened. So, I must accept it was given 
to Mr K by the cashier  as Mr K has said to us.
We just dont know what happened to the funds between October 2021 and March 2022. 
And as Ive said, LCC havent told us, or advised Mr K. Mr K argues strongly that he was left 
without money for Christmas and had to postpone a family holiday as a result. I can see that 
Mr K is an elderly gentleman and appreciate how much of a worry this must have been for 
him.
Putting things right
And so, I agree that LCC should pay compensation of £200 for what happened. And as Mr K 
was without the money in question for five months, LCC should also pay 8% per annum 
simple on that sum for the period. As a guide to Mr K, this should amount to around £100. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. London Community Credit Union Limited must:
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Pay 8% per annum simple on £3,048.46 between 15 October 2021 and 30 March 
2022.
If Mr K accepts this decision, he should advise which account he would like these 
amounts to be paid into.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman