DRN-2271490
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I, who was employed in a sedentary role, was a member of his employers group income 
protection insurance policy, held with Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, 
would pay a regular benefit in the event that Mr I was unable to perform his occupation due 
to illness or injury. 
In March 2019, Mr I stopped working due to symptoms of atrial fibrillation. He remained off 
work as investigations were carried out into his condition. He also started complaining of 
other symptoms including pain in his legs, arms and shoulders, dizziness and anxiety. He 
made a claim under the policy.
In December 2019, after obtaining Mr Is medical records, Unum declined the claim. It 
considered there was insufficient evidence to show that Mr I was suffering from significant 
and ongoing symptoms which would have prevented him from returning to work before the 
end of the deferred period.
Mr I complained to Unum but it would not change its decision. Mr I therefore referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Unum had acted fairly.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators findings. He said it was his neuropathy which was the 
main reason he was unable to return to work. He said he could only sit for fifteen minutes 
before experiencing the onset of nerve pain and it would then affect his concentration. He 
said that the pain also interrupted his sleep which in turn caused tiredness. He said the pain, 
and its affect on his physical capabilities, had also adversely affected his mental health. He 
pointed to certain pieces of medical evidence, particularly occupational health reports, which 
he considered supported his case. He took issue with the way Unum had interpreted and 
presented some of the evidence and considered it had not undertaken a thorough and 
balanced assessment of his claim.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr I is prevented from performing the material and substantial 
duties of his occupation due to illness or injury. The crucial period for the purposes of 
assessing the claim is from March 2019, when Mr I stopped working, to September 2019, 
which was the end of the deferred period.
Mr I initially stopped working due to symptoms of atrial fibrillation but he later started raising 
concerns about other symptoms. He has now clarified that it is his neuropathy which is the 
main reason he believes he cannot return to work. 
At the time his claim was under consideration. I dont consider it was clear exactly what Mr I 
was claiming was preventing him from working. In his claim form of May 2019, he mentioned 
his nerve pain but he also mentioned atrial fibrillation, postural hypotension, diabetes, 
anxiety and depression, dizziness, headaches and shortness of breath. When Unum spoke 
to him in August 2019, he continued to mention these various problems and appears to have 
given the impression that, if anything, it was his atrial fibrillation which was the main obstacle 
to his return to work. In an occupational health assessment of August 2019, he again 
reported his atrial fibrillation symptoms ahead of mentioning the neuropathy. Even when he 
appealed against Unums decision in December 2019, he started by referring to his 
symptoms of atrial fibrillation, though he referred also to his anxiety and depression and to 
his neuropathy which he linked at the time to his diabetes.
In view of the above, I consider it was understandable that Unum addressed Mr Is cardiac 
symptoms ahead of his other health issues when it assessed his claim. The evidence 
indicates that Mr Is episodes of atrial fibrillation diminished during the deferred period. 
Investigations revealed nothing untoward. In November 2019, his consultant noted that Mr I 
reported he was continuing to experience an attack once every couple of weeks or so when 
he would get chest pains and palpitations but that they were usually short lived and would go 
when he rested. The consultant thought that Mr Is obesity predisposed him to such 
episodes. Unum thought these symptoms could be managed by Mr I at work. I think that this 
was a reasonable position for Unum to take. I consider there is insufficient evidence to 
support that Mr Is atrial fibrillation and associated symptoms should have prevented him 
from returning to work before the end of the deferred period.
In respect of his neuropathy, Mr I told his consultant cardiologist in June 2019 that he was 
experiencing pins and needles which the consultant thought might be linked to his 
medication. In July 2019, Mr I mentioned to his GP that he felt some pain in his lower leg 
and forearms. However, there didnt appear to be any suggestion that this was so significant 
as to stop him from working. In August 2019, during his telephone call with Unum, Mr I said 
that one of the reasons he didnt feel able to return to work was because he would struggle 
to sit down for long periods of time due to the pain he experienced. However, he also 
reported that he was restricted in his mobility and so spent much of his day watching 
television, reading social media and playing games on his electronic device. It wasnt until 
the end of October 2019, some six weeks after the end of the deferred period, that Mr I next 
discussed his neuropathy symptoms with his GP following which the GP included it on the 
MED3 certificate as a reason why Mr I was unable to work.
While Mr I was clearly experiencing some symptoms of nerve pain, these appeared 
secondary to the issues caused by his atrial fibrillation. I note that Mr I takes issue with 
Unums record of what he said during the August 2019 telephone call which he thinks gives 
the misleading impression he is able to remain seated for hours on end. And I acknowledge 
his point that the nerve pain can lead to other symptoms, such as tiredness (due to affected 
sleep patterns) and poor concentration, which also hampered his ability to work. However, 
after weighing everything up, I consider there is a lack of evidence to indicate that the nerve 
pain was so significant that it would have prevented him from returning to work before the 
end of the deferred period.Mr I has also mentioned his symptoms of low mood and his diabetes (which may, or may 
not, be linked to his neuropathy). Again, I recognise that Mr I was suffering from low mood 
during the deferred period and this was tied up with his other medical problems. But I havent 
seen evidence that he was suffering from a mental illness which prevented him from 
working. And, aside from the possible connection with his neuropathy, his diabetes didnt 
appear to give rise to any symptoms which should have stopped him from working.
I sympathise with Mr I because he appears to have various health challenges and these 
understandably have affected his mood. But after taking everything into account, I consider 
the evidence does not support that his symptoms were so significant as to prevent him from 
performing his occupation throughout the deferred period. I therefore consider it was fair for 
Unum to decline his claim.
Mr I was also raised concerns about Unums handling of the claim. However, I consider it 
assessed the claim with reasonable thoroughness. I note that at one point Mr Is GP surgery 
led him to believe that Unum had not requested its records for the relevant period. However, 
Im satisfied that Unum did indeed request and obtain all relevant records before making its 
decision to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman