DRN-2798325
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate that it would have been disconcerting to find a small part of the back roof 
had flaked off. I can see a section less than the size of a thumbnail showing through as red 
in the photographs. As the rest of the car is red, I suspect the roof has been wrapped with 
black covering. 
To allow me to uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied that the car was faulty at the point 
of sale or the fault was inherent. Mrs R has taken the view that as the car was only some five 
months old that means the fault must have been present at the point of sale. While I can 
understand why she has taken that view I have seen no technical evidence to support that 
claim.
In turn, the dealer sent the car to a main dealer which has a bodyshop for the roof to be 
examined. The response from that dealer was: Our Bodyshop assed the damage and it was 
deemed to be from on external source and not a manufacturing defect. It has said there was 
evidence of bird lime and that this was the cause of the damage. I appreciate it has not 
supplied a written technical report but I do not consider that sufficient to undermine that 
opinion. 
Mrs R disagrees but has not supplied any additional evidence in support of her claim. As the 
rejection request was made after 30 days, but within six months of purchase the seller is 
entitled to one attempt at a repair. That means that had I been persuaded the car had been 
faulty I would not have recommended rejection. I would have suggested the dealer carried 
out a repair. I see from VFs final response letter the dealer has offered to contribute to the 
cost of any repair as a goodwill gesture and in the circumstances I consider that to be fair.
I have also considered the electrical issue Mrs R encountered and note that the dealer has 
effected a repair. I have not seen anything to say that repair failed. As such I regret to say 
that I can see no basis that would allow me to uphold this complaint.
Finally, I would add that my role is to consider complaints against financially regulated 
businesses and that means I do not have the power to address any failings of the dealer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman