DRN-3389006
The complaint
Miss G complains about her insurer, Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) 
declining a claim for personal injury to her daughter under her home insurance policy. She 
says Lloyds failed in their duty of care by not ensuring that wires from drying equipment at 
her property were tucked away, leading to her daughter tripping and injuring herself.
References to Lloyds in this decision include their agents who assess and handle claims.
This decision only covers Miss Gs complaint about the injury to her daughter, which was the 
subject of a complaint to Lloyds and then to this service. It doesnt consider any other aspect 
of the claim she made under the policy, or other issues connected to the claim.
What happened
In October 2020 Miss G made a claim under her home insurance policy for damage at her 
home caused by a leak. Lloyds appointed contractors (D) to repair the damage. As part of 
the repairs, D installed some drying equipment in the kitchen of Miss Gs property, near to a 
bathroom (which remained in use) adjoining the kitchen. The cables for the drying equipment 
werent initially secured or taped down and unfortunately Miss Gs daughter tripped over the 
cables and injured a toe. Following the accident, Miss G contacted Lloyds, who asked D to 
attend the property and tape down the cables to reduce the risk of further trips.
Unhappy at her daughters injury, Miss G complained to Lloyds. But they didnt uphold her 
complaint. In their final response they said the property was considered a building site when 
the repair work (including the drying) was being carried out, so care was needed by anyone 
in the property. As such, the occupants should have taken precautions, as they had the 
primary responsibility for their own wellbeing. While the repair work necessarily meant some 
inconvenience, the drying equipment was essential. Theyd asked D to remove any drying 
equipment where possible and do everything they could to tidy the cables to the equipment.
 
Miss G then complained to this service. She said D hadnt taken sufficient care to reduce the 
risk of tripping when installing the drying machines. While D returned after the injury to her 
daughter to secure the cables to reduce the risk of tripping, Miss G thought they should have 
done this at the outset. Miss G was unhappy at the injury sustained by her daughter and 
wanted compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds didnt need to do anything 
further. Having seen the risk assessment produced by D, he thought the risk of tripping had 
been considered and Miss G had been made aware of the risk (of not taping down the 
cables) and been shown how to safely re-position the drying equipment. The investigator 
also thought Lloyds actions after the accident were reasonable, in asking D to tidy up the 
cables. The investigator also though that Miss G could consider pursuing a claim for 
personal injury, but as a separate legal case with D (and not a complaint to this service).
Miss G disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, Miss G said it wasnt true that shed said she didnt want the cables to 
be taped down. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to express my sympathy to Miss G for the injury to her daughter. From what 
shes told us, as well as the photograph of her daughters injury, it would have been painful 
for her daughter and upsetting for Miss G. But my role here is to decide whether Lloyds have 
acted fairly towards Miss G.
The central issue in Miss Gs complaint is that Lloyds didnt exercise their duty of care by not 
ensuring that wires from drying equipment at her property were tucked away, leading to her 
daughter tripping and injuring herself. Lloyds say that the primary responsibility for ensuring 
her wellbeing in the circumstances of the repair work (and that of the occupants) lay with 
Miss G. And that they acted reasonably by asking D to tidy up the cables after the accident, 
to reduce the risk of further accidents.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence and information available. In 
doing so, Ive focused on whether Lloyds have acted reasonably towards Miss G. While the 
complaint is against Lloyds, as the insurer of the home insurance policy under which the 
repair work was carried out, Ive also considered their actions with D, as the contractors 
carrying out the repair work. Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that Lloyds have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss G. I know Miss G will be disappointed by this 
conclusion, but Ill set out why Ive come to this view.
In saying that Lloyds didnt exercise their duty of care, Miss G says that the cables to the 
drying equipment should have been secured at the outset  not just after the accident to her 
daughter. Part of the evidence Ive seen is a risk assessment carried out by D when they first 
visited Miss Gs property. The risk assessment includes the following statement against a 
heading of Installing of drying kit and the potential hazard identified of Trip hazard:
The cables have been positioned beneath the kitchen units where possible.
The cables have not been taped to the floor as the policyholder [Miss G] has told me 
she will be moving equipment regularly as she has a young child and will still be 
using the small bathroom area.
The policy holder has been informed of the risk of not taping down the cables and 
has been shown how to safely reposition the kit.
I appreciate that Miss G has told us it wasnt true that shed said she didnt want the cables 
to be taped down. D maintain that Miss G was advised about the drying equipment, their 
operation and how they should be moved (if necessary). While the views of D and Miss G 
differ, on balance Im persuaded by Ds position, given that theres also the risk assessment 
referred to above. I think they acted reasonably. 
Similarly, I can see that action was taken by Lloyds with D after the incident was reported 
and there is a record of the follow-up visit to tidy up the cables. I think Lloyds action was 
reasonable and what Id expect after the accident had been drawn to their attention.
Taking all these points together, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how they treated Miss G. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Gs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman