DRN-3998511
The complaint
Ms G complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) closed her account, 
removed her reward points and hasnt provided an explanation for its actions. 
To put things right, Ms G wants her account and reward points reinstated.  
What happened
Ms G took out an AMEX charge card in 2017. In August 2021, AMEX wrote to Ms G to 
inform her it had decided to close her account with immediate effect saying her account no 
longer meets its criteria.
Unhappy with its actions, Ms G complained to AMEX. In its final response, and in summary, 
AMEX said: 
- A review was placed on Ms Gs account and a decision was made to close it 
- AMEX had acted in line with terms and conditions of the account when deciding to 
close it and its not obligated to provide a reason 
- If AMEX closes an account in this way, any unredeemed reward points accrued will 
be lost unless there is an active linked card account
- Amex has not made any errors 
Unhappy with AMEXs response, Ms G referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators then looked into the complaint, and they upheld the complaint. In summary 
they found: 
- AMEX had provided some reasons for why it took the actions it did, but it failed to 
provide enough evidence to show it acted properly in closing the account 
immediately 
- Because of this AMEX hadnt demonstrated that it had properly carried out its review 
before deciding to close the account 
- AMEX does not have to provide a reason for its decision to review and close the 
account in the same way Ms G could close the account without explanation 
- They couldnt recommend AMEX reopen the account, but it shouldve given Ms G the 
full two months notice of closure, during which time she couldve redeemed her 
reward points 
AMEX did not agree with what our Investigator said, saying it wasnt possible for it to carry 
out the recommendations given its reasons for closing the account - and to apply any funds 
as the account had closed. 
Ms G agreed with our Investigator but was concerned as she had not been able to open 
another AMEX account. In response, the Investigator said it was unlikely AMEX will accept 
her application for a new card and it was down to its commercial judgement if it did. 
As AMEX havent agreed with what our Investigator said, the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Regulated financial businesses in the UK, like AMEX, are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means 
banks need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Because of this, Im satisfied AMEX did nothing wrong when reviewing Ms Gs account. 
AMEX is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which AMEX and Ms G had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving her at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
To determine if AMEX applied its terms fairly in closing Ms Gs account immediately, we 
would need to see enough evidence to see it acted fairy.  AMEX cant provide call recordings 
it says it relied on. Given the proximity of Ms Gs complaint about AMEXs actions, Id 
expected it to have kept the recording. 
Additionally, AMEX hasnt provided enough evidence for me to conclude it acted properly. 
Because of this, Ive decided to uphold part of Ms Gs complaint. Given the nature of the 
account, that is Ms Gs spends money on credit and pays it back, I wont be asking AMEX to 
reinstate the account. Ms G can obtain a similar account from another provider. But I do 
think shes likely lost out on the value of AMEXs reward points shed accumulated and relied 
on.  
So, to put things right I think AMEX should pay Ms G the monetary value of the reward 
points at the point of closure. 
Ms G says this matter has caused her distress and inconvenience. I can understand this but 
given this was a charge card whereby she would borrow money and pay it back, I dont think 
the loss of such a service, and any trouble and upset it caused, warrants a compensation 
award. Ms G would have had other funds to rely on, and I havent seen any evidence her 
credit file was affected. 
 My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct American Express Services 
Europe Limited to pay Ms G the monetary value of her reward points at the point the account 
was closed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman