DRN-2708966
The complaint
Mr D complains that a technical problem with Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds trading 
platform prevented him from selling his positions when he wanted to, causing him a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr D held a share dealing account with Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL). On 9 
November 2020, he attempted to sell some positions on their trading platform but was 
unable to do this due to a technical problem with the platform. He says he then attempted to 
contact them via the phone but after an hour gave up on trying to get through to them. As he 
was unable to sell his positions at that time, he was left out of pocket. He feels the platform 
should be able to deal with high volume traffic like this. To put things right he wants them to 
compensate him £500 to take into account the loss hes incurred from not being able to sell 
when he wanted to and the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
HSDL say due to market volatility on that day, there was high trading traffic and so the 
platform was having intermittent problems. Nevertheless, they said if Mr D was having 
problems trading on the platform they recommend he contacts them on the phone. They 
refer to the terms of service which specifically instructs traders to do this.  They say in busy 
periods demand for the service increases and with it, waiting times. They dont accept there 
has been any breach of the terms of the service and rejected the complaint. 
The investigator at this service agreed with HSDL and didnt uphold this complaint. She 
accepts that Mr D was prevented from trading when he wanted to. But also notes that HSDL 
do not have any phone issues reported for that period and Mr D may have got to speak to 
someone if he had stayed on the phone. 
HSDL accepted the investigators view but Mr D didnt so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. I will explain further. 
My role here is to investigate the complaint against HSDL to see if they have done 
something wrong, and if so to put them back in the position they would have been in if the 
error had not occurred. So, I need to consider if in the process of the technical issues, Mr D 
has been treated fairly. 
Mr D says he was prevented from trading on the platform because HSDLs platform couldnt 
cope with the traffic and holds them responsible for his losses. In periods of volatility, it is not 
unusual to see an increase in traffic to platforms and on occasion this can lead to technical 
problems. In these situations, I would expect a business to offer an alternative to trading on 
the platform. I would refer Mr D to section 6.2.2. in the terms of the service. This specifically 
tells their customers to place orders using the phone service where traders are encountering 
issues with the platform.
Mr D says he did use the phone service to place the trade but gave up after an hour. I agree 
with HSDL that in periods of volatility particularly where the trading platform is suffering 
technical problems, the demand for using the telephone service would have increased and 
with it, the waiting times. I appreciate he says he waited an hour, but it is expected that the 
waiting times would have been longer than usual, and he would have had to wait longer to 
speak to someone. 
Despite the issues with the trading platform, Mr D still had the ability to place the trade and I 
am persuaded if he had stayed on the phone for longer, HSDL may have been able to 
resolve the problem. But by his own admission, he gave up before he had spoken to 
someone and so his positions were not sold. With this in mind, I cant reasonably say HSDL 
did anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my decision particularly as he wasnt able to 
trade on the platform due to the market volatility, but I dont think HSDL have done anything 
wrong or been unfair to Mr D. As such, I will not be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint against Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman