DRN-1558960
 The complaint
Mrs M complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) have declined part of her claim in 
respect of water damage to her property.
What happened
Mrs M contacted UIA about a leak in her bathroom on 2 July 2018. She said it wasnt clear 
what was leaking and had called a plumber to investigate. UIA says it told Mrs M it would 
appoint contractors (Ill call them T) who would contact her and inspect the property. UIA and 
T say they couldnt reach Mrs M by phone as it just rang out with no option to leave a 
message. So UIA closed the claim on 20 July. Mrs M contacted UIA again but not until 20 
November and the claim was reopened. 
T inspected the property in December 2018 and said Mrs M  told it about extensive repairs to 
the bathroom and some to the kitchen. T said work had been completed so no damage was 
evident in these areas. T asked for photographs showing the damage but none were 
available. T noted damage consistent with a leak to the hall, stairs, landing and the ceiling of 
the lounge. T advised it could only consider areas as part of a claim with evidence of 
damage. 
Mrs M called for an update on 9 January 2019 and was put through to T. She was 
concerned T wasnt considering all the damage as it hadnt inspected the bathroom. T again 
requested evidence of damage and tried to contact Mrs M subsequently about this without 
success. 
On 3 June 2019 UIA reviewed Ts report and also tried to contact Mrs M without success. 
Mrs M contacted UIA on 2 September. She was told without evidence of damage the 
bathroom and kitchen couldnt be claimed for. Mrs M disputed this, UIA tried to contact her 
on the 4 and 5 September without success.
Mrs M emailed UIA on 13 September and UIA referred it to T. T said there still wasnt any 
evidence as photographs Mrs M had now provided had been taken after the strip out work, 
so didnt show the damage itself. 
Mrs Ms builder confirmed to T that there had been a leak from one radiator. T felt the 
extensive works carried out in the bathroom wouldnt have been needed because of this. 
Mrs M had confirmed the laminate flooring had been damaged and said that as she couldnt 
colour match it shed had the whole bathroom suite replaced. UIA sent her a final response 
letter confirming that with no evidence of damage it wouldnt cover the bathroom and 
kitchen. It offered a settlement for the other damage.
Mrs M rejected this as she wanted the full cost of the kitchen and bathroom repairs to be 
covered by UIA and she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it and she didnt uphold Mrs M complaint. She said the evidence 
on UIAs file showed it attempted to contact Mrs M on a number of occasions but had no 
record of Mrs M coming back to it until 20 November 2018. UIA and T then waited for Mrs M to provide further information and had difficulty in contacting her. Our investigator felt this 
was the cause of most of the delays.
She also thought the claim for the bathroom and kitchen had been correctly declined as UIA 
had no evidence of damage to consider. Because of this she felt it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect UIA to cover the cost of the works carried out in the bathroom and kitchen as its 
position had been prejudiced.
Mrs M replied that if UIA couldnt reach her by phone it could have emailed or written to her. 
She was waiting for it to contact her and undertook the repairs to the bathroom and kitchen 
because she was worried about the damage getting worse. She said there was no damage 
to the staircase and she hadnt claimed for this. As Mrs M disagrees with our investigator 
findings it has come to me to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer offers a policy its on the basis that the policyholder will prove they have a 
claim within the terms of the policy and the insurer will then consider this. It is the 
policyholders responsibility to show they have suffered an insurable loss. 
In Mrs Ms case, I dont think it is reasonable to expect UIA to accept and pay a claim without 
seeing any evidence of the damage. I can understand why Mrs M was anxious to get repairs 
completed. But Im surprised she didnt liaise with UIA over such a long period whilst 
undertaking such extensive work. I can see that UIA tried to contact Mrs M on several 
occasions. It might have done more to contact her when calls were unsuccessful, but I dont 
think this changed the outcome. I say this because I think it unlikely that UIA would have 
approved the extensive works carried out in the bathroom in any case.
The policy schedule and booklet set out the terms of the contract of insurance between UIA 
and Mrs M. The policy booklet explains on page 5 what a policyholder should do if they need 
to claim and also what the process is. 
You should take any emergency action that may be necessary to protect your 
property from any further damage i.e. switch off the gas, water, electricity (if safe to do 
so) etc
Keep all damaged items as we may wish to view them. You should also collate any 
documentation that may support your claim, such as receipts, valuations, instruction 
booklets and guarantee cards. It may be helpful to take photographs to support your 
claim 
What will happen next?
We will register your claim and start our claims process.
If work needs to be carried out to the building we can appoint one of our preferred 
contractors who will be able to contact you to arrange an appointment
Please refer to Claims conditions on pages 84 to 85I think the work undertaken by Mrs M was more than emergency action reasonably 
necessary to prevent further damage.
On page 84 under the heading Claims Conditions which apply to Sections A, B and C of the 
policy (Buildings, Contents and Personal Possessions away from the home) it states:
You should note that any failure to fully comply with these conditions may mean that 
we are unable to deal with your claim"
It continues:
"2. Your duties
You must, at your expense, give us all details and evidence that we may need, 
including written estimates, proof of ownership and valuations
You must allow us or our nominated representatives to
a) enter and inspect any part of the building where loss or damage has occurred 
It does appear that Mrs M only followed these requirements in part. By not taking 
photographs or giving UIA opportunity to inspect the damage Mrs M gave it no chance to 
assess this part of the claim and it would be unreasonable to expect it to settle the claim on 
this basis. 
There is also the question of what the policy would cover if the claims process could have 
been completed. On page 20 under How we will settle your claim under Section A (section 
A being Buildings Insurance):
We will pay for the necessary repair or replacement (but not improvements)
of parts of the buildings following loss or damage by an insured event 
Matching Items
If the buildings are fitted with a kitchen, bathroom suite, sanitary fittings or other Items 
which are part of a set or suite of matching form design or colour, we will only pay for 
the repair or replacement of those parts which are actually damaged.
The policy does not provide for the replacement of undamaged items. Mrs M says only the 
floor was damaged, not the bathroom suite. In all probability Mrs Ms claim wouldnt have 
covered her for extensive work undertaken in the bathroom even if UIA had been able to 
assess it. I say this because the reported source of the leak was a radiator and the damage 
is unlikely to have been extensive in these circumstances.
In any event, as UIA couldnt inspect the damage as specified under the policy and Mrs M 
couldnt provide evidence of it I dont think it has acted unreasonably in rejecting this part of 
the claim and it hasnt done anything wrong in doing so. 
I know that my decision will disappoint Mrs M but I wont be asking UIA to do any more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against UIA (Insurance) Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman