DRN-1190138
 
The complaint
Mr U complains that Gefion Insurance A/S charged him £500 for an additional excess when 
he made a claim on his motor trade insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr U made a claim by calling his policys brokers out of hours helpline within 48 hours of the 
incident. But Gefion said the policy required him to call its claims line within 48 hours 
otherwise an additional £500 excess would be applied. The combined policy excesses 
exceeded the claim value, so no payment was made. Mr U said he was without a vehicle 
and lost work for a month as he couldnt afford to replace his vehicle. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
policy term and condition was clear. But she thought Mr U had reported the claim to Gefions 
representative who was processing the claim within the required time. She didnt think this 
had caused Gefion any loss. So she thought it was unfair for it to impose the additional 
excess. She thought it should remove this and consider the claim on the policys remaining 
terms and conditions. She also thought it should pay Mr U £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delay in his claim. But she thought Gefion wasnt 
responsible for Mr U not being able to replace his vehicle earlier. 
Gefion replied that the brokers claims line wasnt its representative. It thought the delay in 
reporting the claim had lost it the opportunity to manage the costs of the other drivers claim 
and it gave evidence of the hire costs charged. It also said the total policy excess, without 
the additional £500, exceeded the value of Mr Us car. So he still wouldnt have a valid claim. 
It said there had been no delays in the claim that it should compensate Mr U for.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Us policy. I can see that the additional excess requirement is set out on the 
schedule and key facts. On the schedule this is very prominent in a red box. It states: 
any incident which may give rise to a claim must be reported by the policyholder, in 
person, to us within 48 hours. Failure to comply with this condition will result in a £500 
increase in the policy excess.
It then gives the claims helpline number. This is also set out clearly on page 5 of the policy 
booklet.  But Mr U rang his broker which then passed the information on to Gefion. Gefion 
said this came too late. It said Mr G should have called its claims handlers. It thought the 
broker was to blame for providing incorrect information and not acting promptly.  However, I 
think that as Gefion applied the additional £500 excess, then the complaint is correctly made 
against it. I think its for Gefion to show that Mr Us breach of the policy condition caused it loss in order 
to apply the additional excess. 
Gefion said that it had been caused prejudice by Mr U not reporting the claim within 48 hours 
to its claims line. It provided evidence of the other drivers hire costs. It said that it could have 
provided cheaper car hire if it had known about the claim directly. But I cant say whether or 
not the other driver would have accepted Gefions offer of hire rather than their insurers. I 
also cant say that Gefion would have been successful in arguing that the other drivers 
insurer should mitigate its losses by accepting their cheaper hire costs. So, on balance, I 
cant say that Mr Us not reporting the claim as required prejudiced Gefion or caused it 
losses. 
Gefion also said that the combined policy excesses, excluding the additional £500, meant 
that Mr U didnt have a valid claim. But I think the claim outcome is a separate matter to this 
complaint about the application of the additional £500 excess. I think Gefion needs to assess 
the claim and if Mr U is unhappy with the outcome, then he can make a separate complaint 
about this. So Ill not consider this any further. 
So I think Gefion unfairly applied the £500 additional policy excess and delayed processing 
Mr Us claim.  
Mr U said this caused him losses as he couldnt afford to replace his car. But I cant see that 
Gefion paying his claim would have allowed him to replace his car sooner as the 
replacement car cost him much more than any likely settlement.
But I think Gefion should reasonably compensate Mr U for the delay in settling his claim and 
for the trouble and upset this caused. The investigator recommended £150 compensation for 
this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances.  
Putting things right
To put thins right, I think Gefion should do the following:
Remove the additional £500 policy excess and reconsider Mr Us claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mr U £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused him by the 
delays in considering his claim.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Gefion Insurance A/S to pay 
Mr U compensation as set out above.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman