DRN-3202813
The complaint
Miss F complains about a cosmetic treatment package that was financed through a loan
agreement with Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni).
What happened
In February 2018 Miss F signed up for 12 cosmetic treatments costing £1,800 with a retailer
who I will refer to as S. Miss F applied for finance through Omni to purchase the treatments
from S.
In May 2018, following Ss request to adjust the loan agreement balance, the agreement was
reduced from £1,800.00 to £1,000.00. Miss F had paid a total of £100 towards the loan
agreement by this time.
On 10 October 2018 Omni were notified that Miss Fs direct debit had been cancelled. Miss
F contacted Omni to confirm shed raised a complaint with S. She said she didnt want to
continue making payments towards a service she was no longer receiving and explained this
was the reason she had cancelled her direct debit. Omni explained the loan agreement was
still a live credit agreement and it was unable to put the account on hold whilst the retailer
investigated her complaint. Miss F agreed to make manual payments and made a payment
on 17 October 2018 towards her loan agreement.
Later in October 2018, Miss F sent a written complaint to Omni. She explained how she had
spot prone skin, and this was one of the main reasons shed signed up for the package with
S. She said she had received five treatments in total but that two of those treatments had
been complimentary because shed complained to S about her skin condition worsening
after the treatments.
Miss F explained how she had developed large spots under her skin and decided, in July
2018, not to book any further treatments with S. She also said she had scars from where she
had picked the spots but felt the spots shouldnt have been there in the first place and all of
this had affected her confidence. Miss F said she wanted a refund for what she had already
paid towards the treatments and for Omni to cancel the remaining balance which was left to
pay on her credit agreement. 
On 26 February 2019 Miss F contacted Omni to explain she had raised a complaint with S
before they had entered administration but hadnt received any communication back. Miss
Fs concerns were then raised as a complaint for Omni to investigate. Miss F was also
informed the loan agreement was in arrears and that this may have a negative effect on her
credit file.
On 19 March 2019 Omni requested any evidence Miss F had to support her complaint. Miss
F provided several photographs and explained how the photographs showed her skin
condition worsening over a period of time and how her skin only started to recover once she
stopped the treatments.
In April 2019, Miss F contacted Omni twice looking for an update, but Omni were unable to
provide an update on her complaint.
On 13 June Omni wrote to Miss F with a final response letter. Omni said with regard to her
skin condition worsening after receiving treatment, from the photographic evidence provided
it was clear to see that Miss F had experienced an outbreak of large blemishes on her face,
and these had diminished after she stopped having treatments. Omni supported Miss Fs
view that her skins condition worsened after shed received treatment and upheld this
aspect of her complaint.
In relation to the scars, Omni said that whilst it could appreciate that the spots shouldnt have
been there, it thought had Miss F not interfered with the spots and had they been left to heal,
the scars wouldnt have occurred. For those reasons Omni didnt uphold this aspect of her
complaint. Omni also apologised for the delay in Miss F receiving a response to her
complaint but explained that this was due to S entering into administration and it receiving an
influx of emails and telephone calls from customers affected.
Omni did however go on to make an offer to Miss F. Omni explained that Miss F had
received three treatments, each at the value of £166.66, giving a total cost of £499.98. Miss
F had paid £232.37 towards her loan agreement with £267.61 still left to pay. Although Omni
said Miss F was liable for the payment of the treatments shed received, it said it would
cancel the remaining balance.
Miss F didnt agree and considered a full refund was due to her. When Miss Fs case was
referred to an investigator at our service, the investigator explained even if they accepted
Miss F did have an adverse skin reaction, theyd need to be satisfied that this was because
of a breach of contract by S. The investigator explained how it wasnt uncommon for
beauty treatments to cause a skin reaction, and even if a treatment was provided with the
utmost care, a client could still react badly to the treatment because of the way their skin
was.
As the investigator felt there wasnt any persuasive evidence (such as an expert report from
a suitably qualified medical professional) to show that the treatments were provided without
reasonable care and skill, or that the product itself was defective, which in turn caused
some damage to Miss Fs skin, they were unable to say Omni was liable for the skin
condition Miss F said shed suffered. As Omni informed our service that they had written off
the remaining balance of £267.61, the investigator didnt think Omni had to do anything
further.
Miss F disagreed with the investigator and explained that although she had no medical proof
that it was the treatments, it would have had to be an extreme coincidence that her skin
reacted the way it did after receiving the treatments. She also explained that the timeline of
photos showed that with each treatment her skin got progressively worse, and when she
stopped the treatments the picture showed her skin had healed.
Whilst the case was waiting to be passed for a final decision Miss F explained that she had
received a default letter from Omni regarding the outstanding balance on her account which
she thought was already written off. Omni explained that the balance wasnt written off as
Miss F hadnt accepted the investigators view. It has however since told our service that it
will write of the outstanding balance if Miss F accepts its offer and will also amend her credit
report.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint which read as follows:
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened inthe light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss F raised her complaint under Section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974. The
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers consumer contracts
where goods and/or services are provided.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss F has a claim for misrepresentation or breach
of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the
credit provider (Omni here) provided certain conditions are met.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I think
this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also needs to be the
required three-party contractual relationship-between debtor, creditor and supplier; often
referred to as the DCS relationship. This is made out here also.
There are two issues which I will be considering here, firstly a breach of contract based on
Miss F not receiving the full treatment package, and secondly Miss Fs concerns regarding
her skin condition being affected negatively by the treatments and goods used on her.
Breach of contract
I think from the circumstances of this complaint, its clear that that the entire course of
treatments were not provided to Miss F, by S, and therefore a breach of contract has
occurred, which Omni has also acknowledged and agreed with. And so, I will go on to
consider how this matter should be resolved fairly between the parties.
Miss Fs Loan Agreement was originally meant for 12 treatments for £1,800.00. This was
then amended to six treatments for £1,000.00 giving each treatment a cost price of £166.66.
Miss F explained that she had five treatments, but of those, two were complimentary and so
she only received three paid for treatments. Neither parties have disagreed with the number
of paid treatments Miss F received.
Given that Miss F didnt receive the full course of treatments, before S went into
administration, I think a fair remedy for this breach would be a price reduction to reflect the
treatments she didnt receive as part of her package and contract.
As Miss F was contracted to pay a total of £1,000 to S, under the loan agreement, I have
calculated the price reduction to be £500.02. This means that Miss Fs total liability under the
supply contract is £499.98 to account for the three paid for treatments she received, which
Omni has also agreed with.
In terms of the second issue surrounding Miss Fs skin being affected negatively, and why
she doesnt consider she should pay anything for the treatments she received, I shall now
address this below.
Did the treatments and creams affect Miss Fs skin negatively?
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality. It also
says services must be provided with reasonable skill and care.
In order to uphold a complaint on this basis for Miss F, Id need to be satisfied that damage
had been done and that it was as a direct result of something the salon did which was either
due to the goods provided not being of satisfactory quality or that the service provided wasnt
provided with reasonable skill and care.It's important to note that there are many variables which can affect skin health and it is
difficult to say that the treatment in question caused Miss F to have a negative skin reaction.
Furthermore, whilst cosmetic treatments can cause adverse reactions or not be as effective
on some people as others, that does not necessarily mean they are considered defective or
applied without reasonable skill and care.
This service has asked Miss F to provide any medical evidence to support what she says,
and whilst she has provided photographs of her skin, she has not provided a medical report,
or any other expert assessment to support her claim. Without expert consideration of the
particular circumstances surrounding the treatment and Miss Fs medical history, it is difficult
to conclude that the treatment in question has caused Miss F a particular reaction and that a
breach of contract has occurred.
Omni appear to suggest the treatments may have caused Miss F some reaction in its final
response letter. However, without any expert evidence to the contrary, I am not persuaded
that Miss F has been caused a reaction by the products, and that said, the reaction is as a
result of the goods not being of satisfactory quality, or because they were applied without
reasonable skill and care.
I should add for clarity that even if Miss Fs arguments had been made out here about the 
impact of the treatment on her skin, this service cannot award for loss of amenity, and I 
make no findings for loss of amenity in this decision. So, if Miss F feels she has suffered 
such a loss then she should take independent legal advice on that specific matter. It may be 
that with such independent medical evidence to support her position, a court which can 
decide on loss of amenity, may find differently on different evidence to that available to me.
However, I think it is important to make clear to Miss F that if she were to accept my final
decision, it may affect any future claims she might have against the supplier, Omni or other
third parties in relation to this incident. If Miss F wants to know how accepting my decision
might affect any other claims/legal action she should consider taking independent legal
advice beforehand.
Overall, whilst I consider there to have been a breach of contract in respect of Miss F not
receiving her full treatment package under her contract, I dont consider that the goods
provided to her werent of satisfactory quality, or that the services werent provided with
reasonable skill and care. And so, I dont consider that a full refund is due to Miss F.
Summary
For the breach of contract that occurred, due to S being unable to provide all the treatments
to Miss F, I have said a price reduction of £500.02 should be provided, which Omni has
already agreed to do.
Of the £499.98 which Miss F is still liable for under her loan agreement, I can see that she
has paid £232.37 with £267.61 still left to pay. Omni however made an offer to cancel the
remaining balance from Miss Fs loan agreement and has confirmed to our service that this
offer is still available to Miss F. Should she choose to accept the offer, Omni has also agreed
to amend her credit file report.
I would like to add that had Omni not made such an offer, our approach may have led to
Miss F owing more money. And whilst I consider there to have been a breach in respect of
the number of treatments not provided to Miss F, on balance, Im not persuaded that the
goods supplied were of an unsatisfactory quality or that the services provided were not
carried out without reasonable skill and care.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this case and consider Omni Capital Retail
Finance Limiteds offer to recalculate Miss Fs liability, under the agreement, so that she is
only liable to pay a total of £499.98, is fair in all the circumstances.
I invited further comments from both parties. Omni accepted my provisional findings, but 
Miss F didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given than neither party has put forward any further arguments or evidence for 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold Miss Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this case and consider Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limiteds offer to recalculate Miss Fs liability, under the agreement, so that she is only liable 
to pay a total of £499.98, is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision wont prevent Miss F from accepting any offer which Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited made over and above the offer explained above. Should it still be available 
to Miss F, she can liaise with Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited about it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman