DRN-3341067
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr T had 17 years and 
6 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £10,792.50 per year (forecast to be £18,240 per year at the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65). After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr T 
joined his employers Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr T was unsure about what to do so in October 2017 he approached Niche for advice about 
his DB scheme benefits. Niche completed a fact-find on 9 October 2017 and an attitude to 
risk (ATR) questionnaire on 27 November 2017 in order to gather information about Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives. A few weeks prior to the meeting Mr T had received a Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the DB scheme of £266,034 valid for 3 months until 
11 December 2017. Mr Ts circumstances at the time were noted by Niche as follows:
He was aged 37, married with 3 dependent children (their ages were 
undocumented).
He was employed as an automation technician earning £40,485 per year excluding 
any overtime or bonuses. His wife was earning £5,687 per year and received child 
benefit payments of £192 per month.
Mr and Mrs T had total outgoings of £2,035 per month and a total monthly income of 
£3,030.
Mr and Mrs T had an outstanding mortgage on their home of £50,000 which cost 
them £450 per month and had 12 years to run. Their home was valued at £110,000.
He had an outstanding personal loan of £8,000 which cost £180 per month and had 
an outstanding term of 3 years.
Mr T had joint savings with his wife of £10,000
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme to which he 
made contributions of 6% of his gross salary per month with his employer 
contributing 10% of his gross salary per month. Its approximate value at the time of 
the advice was £4,500. 
Mrs T was recorded as having two occupational pensions with a combined value of 
£14,755.
Mr T wanted the flexibility to retire early and to control how much income he took. His 
preferred retirement age was 58 and his estimated monthly outgoings in retirement 
were £1,305.
He no longer trusted his employer.
Mr Ts ATR was recorded as moderately cautious or 4 on a scale of 1 to 10.
He liked the idea of flexible death benefits and being able to leave his remaining 
pension fund to his wife and/or family. 
On 13 December 2017 Niche provided Mr T with its suitability report. Niche said that the 
critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits was such that it would not recommend that he 
transfer his scheme benefits as doing so would likely mean he would be financially worse off 
in retirement. However, Niche said that as Mr T said he wanted to use his pension in a 
completely different way to that permitted by the DB scheme rules, it was happy to make a 
positive recommendation that he transfer his DB scheme benefits into a SIPP and invest the 
proceeds with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) through a provider (A) in a cautious 
tracker fund. The report also contained a table comparing the benefits of the SIPP with 
BSPS2 based on Mr T retiring at age 58. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation to Mr T were, in summary: 
That he would have complete control over the pension, how it was invested and the 
level of income that was withdrawn from it.
He was concerned about early retirement penalties applied by his DB scheme. 
That having control would allow him to achieve his goal of taking early retirement. 
That he would be able to withdraw a greater amount in early retirement which he 
could then reduce when he was able to collect his state pension. 
That it would allow him to nominate the beneficiaries of any funds remaining on his 
death so that they could receive the full value of any remaining fund. 
Mr T accepted the recommendation and the transfer went ahead in January 2018.
Niche was remunerated with an initial advice fee of £4,500 and an ongoing annual fee of 
£500. As annual charges were 0.35% on the first £175,000 of the fund and 0.25% for the 
next £100,000. The DFMs charges were 0.15% of the fund value along with underlying fund 
fees ranging from 0% to 0.28% per annum. 
In September 2021, Mr Ts representative complained to Niche that the advice hed been 
given to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt 
have been recommended to Mr T in his circumstances as they were at the time. Mr T went 
on to say that his benefits could have been carried forward into BSPS2 and that they were 
highly unlikely to be matched through the SIPP that Niche had recommended. 
Niche looked into Mr Ts complaint, issuing its final response letter on 16 November 2021, 
but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Niche said that it made it clear to Mr T in the 
suitability report that the scheme benefits were unlikely to be achieved by transferring and, 
on a like-for-like basis, Mr T was likely to be worse off financially in retirement. However, it 
said the suitability report went on to explain what Mr Ts objectives were and that the like-for-
like critical yield comparison was not an appropriate one. 
Niche also said that it explained to Mr T that he would experience a shortfall in income if he 
stayed in his DB scheme and took early retirement at 58. It said it had told him hed have to make that shortfall up by relying on savings until he was able to collect his state pension. 
However, Niche went on to say, if Mr T transferred his benefits to a SIPP and retired at 58 
he could cover his desired expenditure. Niche also said that its suitability report had set out 
the favourable death benefits that Mr T said he wanted. So, Niche said it had given Mr T 
suitable advice and that its suitability report had clearly set out the benefits hed be giving up 
and the reasons it was recommending that he do so. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Niche, Mr T complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr T because it wasnt financially viable. He also 
thought that there were no other compelling reasons which meant the transfer could be said 
to be suitable for Mr T in the circumstances. 
Mr T replied to say that he agreed with our Investigators findings and that he thought any 
loss calculation should be completed in line with FCA guidance and be calculated to his 
NRD of 65. Niche replied to say it remained of the view that the advice had been suitable. It 
said that regulatory guidance referred to by our Investigator wasnt issued until several years 
after it had advised Mr T so had no relevance to this complaint. And Niche said that Mr Ts 
complaint was unspecific and generic and that no attempt had been made to establish what 
his specific concerns were. Niche said it didnt accept our Investigators findings and it asked 
for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Our Investigator responded to Niche to say that he had not suggested at any point that it 
should have relied on the regulatory guidance he had referred to. He said he had referred to 
it illustrate that his view about the complaint was consistent with that held by the regulator. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Niche carried out a TVAS report (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr Ts 
pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme. It said Mr Ts pension would need to achieve growth of 
4.24% each year to match his full scheme income at age 65 or 4.99% at age 58. It also 
stated that Mr Ts pension would need to grow by 3.77% for the benefits he could access in 
the PPF to match those he was giving up in the DB scheme at age 65. This analysis was 
based on his existing BSPS scheme benefits, but Mr T didnt have the option to remain in 
the BSPS; he either needed to opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to 
the PPF. 
Shortly after providing Mr T with the TVAS report, Niche sent him its suitability report in 
which it included a small amount of information about BSPS2. Notably it referred to the 
critical yields which Mr Ts SIPP would need to attain to match the benefits available under 
BSPS2 at ages 65 and 58. The critical yields cited however were identical to those Niche 
had referred to in the TVAS and which were based on BSPS. Typically I would expect any 
critical yields for BSPS2 to be slightly lower than those under BSPS because all the 
information the BSPS trustees provided states that benefits under BSPS2 are lower overall 
than the BSPS. So whilst Niche cited the critical yields for BSPS2 in its suitability report, Im 
not persuaded that these were correct. The same applies to the reference in the suitability 
report to the pension forecast for Mr T at age 58 and at NRD. However, I dont think I need 
to know the exact figures to reach my decision.
And whilst Niche provided a brief comparison between the benefits and drawbacks of the 
BSPS2 and the SIPP taken at age 58, it didnt include any comparison for him retiring at his 
NRD. So while of course its possible BSPS2 may not have gone ahead, I still think the 
proposed benefits available to Mr T through the BSPS2 at his NRD, along with a complete 
comparison of the benefits and drawbacks, shouldve been addressed in greater detail, and 
with greater accuracy, by Niche in its advice so that he was able to make an informed 
decision. 
The TVAS dated 30 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 
4.24% if Mr T took a full pension (or 3.5% if he took TFC and a reduced pension) and at age 
58 it was 4.99%. It also stated that Mr Ts pension would need to grow by 3.77% for the 
benefits he could access in the PPF to match those he was giving up in the DB scheme at 
age 65 or 3.56% if he took a reduced pension and a pension commencement tax free lump 
sum (PCLS) (at age 58 the critical yields were 4.66% and 4.44% respectively).  
According to the fact-find and the suitability report, Mr T wanted to retire from British Steel 
early, possibly at age 58. However, that doesnt appear to have been anything more than a 
best guess, given he was only 37 at the time of the advice and could continue working for up to another 28 years. Nevertheless, given Mr T had expressed a desire to retire at that 
age, I think Niche shouldve provided him with the relevant critical yields for BSPS2 at the 
time it was advising him so that he was able to make an informed decision.
As Ive said above, Mr T remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
correct critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by 
Niche. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical 
yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the 
PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. And that way Mr T would have been in possession of all 
the information he needed to make an informed choice. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 27 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Niche says that at the time of the advice it 
assessed that Mr T as having a moderately cautious investor. Having reviewed the ATR 
questionnaire completed at the time of the advice I think that Niches assessment in this 
respect was reasonable. 
Ive thought about Mr Ts capacity for loss but I dont think that the length of time he had to 
go to retirement meant his capacity for loss was significant. I can see that Mr T had £10,000 
in savings at the time of the advice and that he had 12 years left to run on his mortgage. It 
cant be assumed that just because Mr T had 25+ years to go until he retired that he could 
afford to gamble by transferring his DB scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at 
retirement from the scheme (if he remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to 
lose. 
There would be little point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was based on Mr T opting into the BSPS and was 3.5% if he took TFC 
and a reduced pension at age 65 (or 4.24% if he didnt take TFC). The critical yield for the 
PPF based on Mr T taking a reduced pension and a PCLS at age 65 was 3.56%.
The critical yields cited in the TVAS for taking a pension through both the original BSPS and 
through the PPF were below the discount rate of 4.6% and somewhere between the 
regulators lower and middle projection rates of 2% and 5%. Given Mr Ts moderately 
cautious ATR, which can reasonably be said to fall somewhere between the regulators 
lower and middle projection rates, I think the opportunity at NRD for Mr T to improve on his 
DB scheme benefits by transferring to a personal pension was a limited one.  And there is 
little point in transferring just to match the benefits that would have been available by 
remaining in the scheme. If Mr T retired early however, which is something he had 
expressed an interest in doing, then he would likely receive benefits of a lower overall value 
than those offered by the PPF and BSPS given the critical yield for doing so was cited as 4.99%. So I am confident that had Niche informed Mr T of the true value and benefits of the 
BSPS2 and the PPF, and then advised him to remain in the BSPS, he would have accepted 
this and he would then have opted to join the BSPS2.
Its worth stating that I havent based my findings on the discount rate alone however, I think 
it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth 
was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those 
payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were 
free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable assumption of the 
likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators 
published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this 
combination, along with Mr Ts attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe he had little 
opportunity to improve on the benefits he was entitled to through the DB scheme, particularly 
if he retired early.
Niche has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr T wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Niches models show 
that it had compared Mr Ts existing situation to a situation where his transfer value and his 
savings grew at a net investment rate of 2% per year. And whereas Mr Ts DB scheme was 
going to give him an income at NRD of in excess of £18,000 (and which was index linked), 
Niches cashflow model was based on Mr T reducing the amount he took from the pension 
significantly once his state pension became payable. So, it wasnt comparable with him 
taking his DB scheme benefits as hed be receiving far less income overall. 
And I can also see that Niche prepared a cashflow forecast based on Mr T remaining in his 
DB scheme and retiring at age 58. The forecast refers to a 20% early retirement penalty 
being applied to the scheme for taking early retirement at 58. I can also see from the 
suitability report that Mr T had expressed concerns regarding early retirement penalties 
applied to the DB scheme that could affect the value of his pension at his desired retirement 
age of 58. 
I think that its misleading to refer to any income thats been reduced as a result of taking 
retirement earlier than the schemes NRD as being subject to a penalty. What actually 
occurs is an actuarial adjustment to reflect a situation where the scheme is being asked to 
pay a pension for a longer period of time. This isnt done to penalise individuals and I think 
Niches focus should have been on explaining this to Mr T. That by taking early retirement 
from the scheme his pension would be reduced accordingly to reflect that. And that rather 
than transferring he may want to wait to nearer retirement age to see if he did really want or 
need to retire at 58. He may well be content to work past 58 and the more years he does so, 
the smaller any actuarial reduction his scheme benefits would have been. 
So I think the cashflow is misleading in this respect. And I note that it doesnt include the 
index linking that is part of the DB scheme in its forecast. And whilst Niches cashflow 
forecast shows that Mr Ts funds wont run out before he reaches the age of 100 it is 
predicated on Mr T saving enough for that to be the case. Furthermore, Niche said in its 
suitability letter: I would recommend that you do not transfer this pension, as you are likely 
to be financially worse off in retirement. So it is clear to me that Niche realised that by 
transferring, Mr T would be unable to match the benefits he was giving up. Given Mr T was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, particularly if he retired early, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer 
out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as Niche has argued in this case. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ts best interests, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems to me that the main reason that Niche recommended Mr T transfer his pension was 
for the flexibility and control it offered him over how it was invested and the amount of 
income that was withdrawn from it. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr T 
needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement, if he did in fact need it. Although Mr T could choose to take tax-free cash (TFC) 
and a reduced annual pension from his DB scheme, Mr T had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr T had any need to take TFC earlier than his 
normal retirement age. I also dont think he had any particular need to vary his income 
throughout his retirement. To my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a 
genuine objective.
Whilst I can see that the retirement funds that Mr T would be building up over the next 25+ 
years, through his employers DC scheme (or any other future employment) were included in 
the cashflow forecast any mention of them seems to have been omitted in the suitability 
report. The fact-find says that the combined contributions of Mr T and his employer into his 
DC scheme amounted to 16% of his gross annual income. So it is reasonable to assume 
that even with modest investment growth over the next 25+ years, Mr T could have access 
to a significant fund by the time he retired. And Mr T could use his DC scheme if he wanted 
to retire early, without needing to access his DB scheme before his NRD (thereby avoiding 
any actuarial reduction).
Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that Mr Ts disposable income would increase when 
he paid his mortgage off in 12 years time and when he paid off his personal loan in 3 years 
time meaning any surplus income could then be put towards building his savings pot further. 
So potentially, by the time he wanted to retire, Mr T could have had a substantial savings pot 
to access flexibly to top up his retirement income. According to Niches cashflow forecast 
and the fact-find, Mr T needed an annual income in retirement of £14,676. 
Whilst I accept that at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established, I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met. And if Mr T had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone 
ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
And under the PPF at age 65 Mr T wouldve been entitled to a pension of £13,363.26 per 
year together with a PCLS of £89,088.44 (or an annual pension without taking a PCLS of 
£16,689.94). At 58 this would have been a pension of £10,471.92 together with a PCLS of 
£69,812.83). 
Whilst the PPF pension was likely lower than the BSPS2 pension at NRD, Mr T wouldve 
had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable, or until he reached 
his DB scheme NRD if he wanted to retire earlier. So the fact the PPF pension was lower 
shouldnt have made a difference to the recommendation as I still think Mr T couldve most 
likely met his needs in retirement  including being able to vary his income  even if the 
BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF. And, as Ive set out above, Mr T was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at 
retirement by transferring his funds to a SIPP. So he would have had even less income than 
was forecast. From Niches cashflow forecast it is clear that Mr T had a better chance of 
achieving an income to meet his forecast retirement expenditure of £14,676 per year by 
opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than 
relying on investment growth from the SIPP and his savings for all of his retirement funds. 
The majority of the pension provisions Mr T was building up over the next 25+ years would 
be subject to investment risk, so I dont think it was reasonable to also place his guaranteed 
pension funds at risk.
Furthermore, Mr T was only aged 37 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen 
he didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr T had 18 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up 
his guaranteed benefits when he didnt know what his exact needs in retirement would be. If 
Mr T later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what extent 
Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr T predeceased her. Mr T also had dependent children. Under the DB 
scheme there was provision for a childrens pension up to age 23 if they remained in full-time 
education. I dont think Niche made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr T. They 
were guaranteed and escalated so they werent dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. And if Mr T lived a long life there may 
not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. In any event, Niche 
should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Niche 
shouldve instead explored the option of life insurance with him. This may well have been 
something Mr T would have considered and been able to afford given he had disposable 
income. And I think it is an option that Niche should have explored regardless. If he wanted 
an extra sum specifically for his wife and/or children, he couldve taken extra cover out on a 
whole of life basis and written it in trust for their benefit. Significantly I cant see that there was any documented discussion when Niche was advising 
Mr T about the fact that he was now a member of his employers defined contribution 
scheme which had the potential to grow through to when Mr T retired. And its evident that 
Mr T could nominate beneficiaries of his choosing under the DC scheme. So, at the time of 
the advice he already had the option to ensure that part of his pension didnt die with him.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice Niche gave Mr T shouldve properly taken the full benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ts 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche shouldve 
reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Niche recommending Mr T transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I also think Mr Ts desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr T was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. 
It seems to me that Mr Ts stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment. 
But Niche ought to have explained that Mr Ts employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 were 
not one and the same. And in any event, Mr T was not intending to leave his employment 
and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had Niche explained that Mr Ts belief 
regarding the control Mr Ts employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would 
have been reassured by this.
Use of DFM Niche recommended that Mr T use a DFM to manage his pension fund. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr T should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Niche 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr T suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits, particularly if he retired early and, in my view, there were no 
other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr T had a vague 
objective to retire at age 58 but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; it was some 21 
years away.  And I dont think Niche interrogated this objective in any meaningful way so it 
couldnt offer any real insight into whether Mr T couldve met this objective by moving with 
the scheme to the PPF or the new BSPS2, or by using the savings already available to him 
or by using his DC scheme flexibly. So, I dont think Mr Ts plans or ambitions were concrete 
enough for Niche to say it was in his best interests to give up his guaranteed benefits and 
transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr T was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr T. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was 
suitable. Mr T was being advised by Niche after having received the Time to Choose 
document and was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. 
I carefully considered what Mr T likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by 
Niche  and on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this because 
I dont think Mr Ts retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been 
in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering 
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr T wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme if he needed to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Niche 
shouldve advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against Niches 
advice. Niche says Mr Ts needs and objectives were only met by transferring to the SIPP 
and that he was fully aware of the benefits he was sacrificing. But Im not persuaded that 
Mr Ts concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt 
think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Niche had explained that Mr T was 
always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him by transferring and that 
he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits I think he wouldve 
accepted this. I also think if Niche had explained that the flexibility he sought could be met by other means and that the uncertainty over his requirements meant transferring at that time 
was not in his interests and that the other things hed expressed worry about were not things 
he needed to be as concerned about as he was, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont think that Niche provided Mr T with all the 
necessary information he needed to make a fully informed decision. And by not fully advising 
Mr T  for example by not exploring the option of life cover with him or by not attempting to 
fully understand what his retirement income needs were  I dont think I can agree that Niche 
did take reasonable steps, or exercise reasonable skill and care, to ensure the transfer was 
suitable. 
For this reason, I think Niche should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr T is a long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr T will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by discovering that Niches advice was unsuitable so I think that Niche should 
pay him compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. Mr T confirmed 
that he would like any redress to be calculated in line with current guidance.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would 
have most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr T is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Niche should also pay Mr T compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it 
has caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decisionDetermination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman