DRN-3172334
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) gave him misleading information 
regarding his mortgage account.
What happened
Mr B says following the separation from his partner he contacted Nationwide to advise them 
he was no longer living at the address and they should correspond with his partner. Mr B 
says he then learnt his wife hadnt made a mortgage payment and contacted Nationwide 
where he was told a marker was made against his credit file, causing Mr B further stress 
given the potential impact. Mr B says at the time of the call to Nationwide in May 2021, he 
made two payments on his mortgage account to bring the payments up to date, but still 
continued to receive calls and texts from Nationwide, asking for the mortgage payments, 
causing him further upset at a difficult time. Mr B says Nationwide then told him there was no 
adverse credit markers against his name and apologised for this misinformation and paid 
him £50 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr B didnt feel this went far enough given the 
stress this matter had caused him, and feels Nationwide should pay him, by way of 
compensation, the equivalent of one months mortgage payment.
Nationwide have accepted they did make an error when they advised Mr B there would be 
an adverse marker on his credit file and have apologised for this. Nationwide do not feel they 
have misinformed Mr B regarding the direct debit payments on his mortgage as their advisor 
did inform him that a further direct debit may be collected but could have been clearer as to 
whether or not a manual payment was needed or not. In the circumstances Nationwide feel 
that the apology and the £50 paid to Mr B was sufficient. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides offer of compensation and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Bs complaint. He felt 
Nationwide had added to a stressful situation by providing Mr B with incorrect information 
about his credit file and felt this warranted additional compensation, to total £100.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been a difficult time for Mr B following his separation and 
being told by Nationwide his credit file had been affected, when it hadnt, would have only 
added to the stress he was experiencing. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Nationwide have adequately compensated Mr B for the trouble and upset caused as a result 
of the conflicting information about his credit file being affected and what payments were due 
on his joint mortgage account.
The first thing to say here is, even though Mr B had separated from his partner, as this was a 
joint mortgage account, this means either party can be asked to pay for the mortgage 
payments due, under what is referred to as joint and several liability. So Nationwide were at 
liberty to ask Mr B or his partner to make the mortgage payments as they became due. 
What happened here was Mr Bs partner didnt make the April 2021 mortgage payment and 
as such the mortgage account was in arrears, its fair to say that when Mr B telephoned 
Nationwide they did make an error when he was told a marker had been made against his 
credit file and Nationwide could have perhaps explained a little more clearly what payments 
were due and when, at that time. 
From the information I have seen, and from what Mr B has told this service, matters have 
now been resolved regarding the future payments on his mortgage, but Mr B remains 
unhappy how he was treated at the time he telephoned Nationwide and their subsequent 
requests for him to make payments, when he had already arranged this with them.
While I accept Nationwide could have been clearer at this time and unnecessarily created 
some further confusion by suggesting Mr Bs credit file may be affected, the role of this 
service isnt to punish businesses when they make mistakes, but to ensure they apologise 
and put matters right. I am satisfied Nationwide have attempted to do this but like the 
investigator, I feel a payment of £100 better reflects the upset caused here. 
Therefore, I would instruct Nationwide to pay Mr B a further £50 in compensation making the 
total payment £100. 
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome.
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr B a further £50 in addition to the £50 they 
have already paid, for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr B a further £50 in addition to the £50 they 
have already paid, for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman