DRN-2040502
The complaint
Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold the late Mr W a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by post in 1999. The policy gave Mr W 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and some life cover. It was taken 
out at the same time as Mr W applied for his credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs W says Mr W just assumed he had to have PPI. But on his credit card 
application form the options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal 
prominence. And he indicated that he wanted the cover. Overall, I think Capital One 
made it clear to Mr W the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr W to decide whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost 
his job.
Mrs W says Mr W was given no information on the PPI. And I agree its possible 
Capital One didnt give Mr W all the information about the PPI that he needed before 
he made his decision. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. 
And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr W had no 
savings or other insurances and wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer, 
just statutory sick pay. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all 
successful accident, sickness and unemployment claims. So it would have been 
useful for him if he lost his job or was sick. 
Mrs Ws representative argues that Mr W would have made a claim when he was off 
work in 2000 had the information been clear enough. But we cant know why Mr W 
didnt try to use the policy at that time. So this doesnt change my conclusion for the 
reasons set out in the paragraph above. 
Based on his circumstances at the time of the sale and the terms of the policy, I think 
it unlikely Mr W wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman