DRN-2055609
The complaint
Mrs O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed her 
account and passed the debt to solicitors (B) that went on to obtain a court order. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs O attempted to make a payment from her Amex card to an account 
she holds with an online payment service (P). Amex has told us that its systems identified 
the transaction as one that broke its user agreement and suspended access to the card. On 
6 March 2019 Amex wrote to Mrs O and asked her to provide evidence of her income. 
On 26 April 2019 Amex wrote to Mrs O again as it hadnt received a response to its previous 
letter. Amexs letter said it was no longer able to offer credit and that it was exercising its 
right to terminate the account. As a result, Amex said the account would be closed in two 
months from the date if its letter. Amex confirmed the reason the account was being closed 
was because Mrs O had conducted a transaction that breached the user agreement. 
Amex went on to close the account on 27 June 2019 and on 2 July 2019 it appointed 
solicitors (B) to contact Mrs O and arrange repayment. When Amex closed Mrs Os account, 
it cancelled her direct debit. 
B says it tried to call Mrs O on the numbers it held for her, including a work number provided 
to Amex as part of the original application. B also wrote to Mrs O on 9 July 2019 to notify her 
it had been appointed to collect the outstanding balance for Amex. Bs letter asked Mrs O to 
either repay the full outstanding balance of £4,883.52 or make contact to discuss solutions. 
B sent another letter to Mrs O on 15 July 2019 as it didnt hear from her. B said that the 
process of taking legal action had begun and asked Mrs O to make contact and discuss 
options for repayment. On 18 July 2019 an agent at B contacted Mrs O and received a 
response to advise she was abroad and would make contact on her return. 
B sent further letters to Mrs O and also tried to contact her on the work number supplied by 
Amex. 
Mrs O complained and Amex responded on 22 July 2019. Amex said its decision to cancel 
Mrs Os account was right as she had broken the terms of the user agreement. Amex also 
advised that it was policy for cancelled accounts to be referred to third parties to collect and 
that it had appointed solicitors to arrange repayment with Mrs O. Amex asked Mrs O to 
discuss repayment options with B. 
On 4 September 2019 Mrs O asked B to provide bank details so she could arrange to make 
the minimum contractual payment via standing order. B responded on the same day and 
asked Mrs O to complete the financial statement it sent her and return it within five days. On 
18 September 2019 Mrs O emailed B to say she was advised to continue to make the 
contractual minimum payment and asked for bank details again so she could pay £190. Mrs 
O chased a response by email on 28 September 2019. 
On 30 September 2019 B emailed Mrs O and said that before a repayment plan could be 
agreed, it needed to understand her financial circumstances. However, Bs email also 
provided details of its bank account and a payment reference. Mrs O later responded to 
Amex and said she was offering to continue to maintain the contractual minimum payment. 
Despite Bs earlier email asking for bank details, Mrs O asked for them again. 
B wrote to Mrs O on 4 October 2019 to notify her that legal action was being prepared. On 
1 November 2019 B wrote to Mrs O to confirm a judgement had been entered against her. 
Mrs O referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator to review. 
They thought Amex and B had dealt with Mrs Os complaint fairly and didnt ask them to do 
anything else. Mrs O asked to appeal and said Amex was unfairly picking and choosing 
different elements of the user agreement to enforce. Mrs O also said she hadnt provided 
Amex or B with her the work number and it couldnt have been included in her application.  
Mrs O said that the decision to proceed with legal action was unfair as she had offered to 
make repayments to the debt. As Mrs O has asked to appeal, I have been passed her 
complaint to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mrs O and Amex for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Mrs O has responded to the investigator setting out her concerns over Amexs 
and Bs actions. Ive considered all the information provided by Mrs O, Amex and B when 
reaching my decision. If I havent specifically referred to a point that Mrs O or Amex have 
made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the 
key issues, an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service. I would also like to 
explain that whilst B is a separate company to Amex, it was appointed to act on its behalf in 
order to recover a debt from Mrs O. As B was acting as Amexs agent, I can consider its 
actions as part of this complaint. 
Mrs O has told us that due to a genuine mistake, her Amex card was linked to her account 
with P. As a result, the £1,700 payment she tried to make in February 2019 was a mistake. I 
dont doubt what Mrs O has said, but I can see that Amexs user agreement says certain 
types of transactions arent allowed. The user agreement says: 
You may not use your account for illegal activities or in a manner which disguises the true 
nature of the transaction, for example, by obtaining cash through a transaction which you 
know will be treated as a purchase of goods and services, or by using your card at a 
merchant you own or control.
Amex says the transaction was flagged because it would have paid Mrs Os account with P 
and could have been spent as cash. The transaction Mrs O tried to make wasnt in line with 
her user agreement with Amex. Im satisfied there were reasonable grounds for Amex to 
highlight the transaction and contact Mrs O to ask questions. 
Amex wrote to Mrs O on 6 March 2019 and notified her the account had been suspended. 
Amex asked for proof of Mrs Os income but didnt receive a response. Amexs follow up 
letter on 26 April 2019 explained it had taken the decision of closing Mrs Os card and 
terminating her account. Mrs O has told us she didnt receive either of these letters. Amex has sent in copies of both the letters that were sent and they are correctly addressed. 
Ive also seen systems evidence to show the letters were dispatched on the dates Amex 
claims. On balance, Im satisfied that Amex did write to Mrs O as it says.  
Amex says the decision to close Mrs Os account and terminate the relationship was in line 
with the user agreement. I wont repeat the specific section again, but the user agreement 
says Amex can chose to cancel a card at any time. I can see that Amexs letter dated 26 
April 2019 gave Mrs O the required 60 day notice of its intentions. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mrs O, but Im satisfied the transaction that was attempted wasnt in line with 
Amexs user agreement. Im also satisfied that Amex wrote to Mrs O before it took the 
decision to cancel her card and terminate the relationship. As Amex didnt receive a 
response, I think its decision to pass the debt to B to collect was reasonable. 
Mrs O has told us that Amex cancelled the direct debit instruction which is why payments 
stopped. But when the card was cancelled, Amex requested repayment in full. I also note 
that Amexs agents contacted Mrs O to arrange repayment so there were alternative 
methods available. 
Mrs O has said that Bs decision to pursue legal action was unfair because she asked for its 
bank details, so she could make the contractual minimum payment. I agree that Mrs O did 
ask for bank details in September 2019 but I think its reasonable to note that B had been 
attempting to contact her for around two months at this point. I understand Mrs O was 
abroad for part of that time. I note that Bs email to Mrs O dated 30 September 2019 did 
provide the bank details requested. I can see a follow up email from Mrs O requested bank 
details again, but B had already sent them. 
I understand Mrs O wanted to continue to make the contractual minimum payment and didnt 
feel it was necessary to complete an income and expenditure assessment with B. But, when 
Amex cancelled the card, the agreement she had with it ceased. Amex, and its agents, had 
to ensure that any repayment Mrs O made from that point was affordable. I note that even 
though B emailed Mrs O its bank details on 30 September 2019, it still said it needed to 
understand her financial circumstances to consider a payment plan. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs O, but I havent found that B was asking for unnecessary information when it requested 
details of her finances. I think the requests were reasonably made in an attempt to agree an 
affordable repayment plan. 
Mrs O says that when she applied to Amex her work number was different, so she cant 
understand how B was able to contact her employer. However, Amex has forwarded a copy 
of Mrs Os application and it confirms her employment details and work number. Ive seen 
the court documents submitted by Mrs O and they give the same details. Im satisfied that 
the work number B called was provided by Mrs O in her application to Amex. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O but I havent found that Amex treated her unfairly I understand 
Mrs O wanted to continue making the normal monthly payment but Im satisfied Bs request 
to get an understanding of her finances was necessary and fair. I note Mrs Os request for 
bank details and a payment reference was complied with by email on 30 September 2019. 
Mrs O didnt respond with the information about her finances and no payments were made. 
As I havent found that Amex has made a mistake or treated Mrs O unfairly, Im not telling it 
to take any further action.   
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman