DRN-4459421
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains Covea Insurance plc turned down a claim it made on its 
Childcare & Business Combined insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2022 O contacted its broker to let it know about a claim on its policy with Covea. 
It subsequently provided further information about this to Covea. It said a director of the 
business (who at the time was working as an administrator) had stolen a significant amount 
of money from it during 2022. It claimed on the Employee Dishonesty section of its policy. 
There was some discussion between Covea and O as to whether the director was also an 
employee and so covered by this section of the policy. After considering evidence from O 
(including his contract of employment) it accepted he was. However, it said there was an 
exclusion in the policy for Theft by Principals which it thought applied here. And it didnt 
think O had complied with conditions in the policy including that it should have dual control in 
place for payments from bank accounts. 
In his most recent view our investigator agreed the Theft by Principals exclusion didnt 
cover theft by an official. And the definition of that included a director, partner or employee. 
However, he didnt think it was fair for the policy to cover Employee Dishonesty on the one 
hand but then withdraw that cover in its entirety under the general exclusion. He didnt agree 
Covea could use this to turn down the claim. 
However, he wasnt satisfied O had met the policy conditions as they relate to dual control. 
And he thought not doing so had increased the risk of the loss occurring in the 
circumstances in which it did. If that condition had been complied with the director would 
have been unable to transfer funds from Os bank account without authorisation from 
someone else. He also concluded it would have been possible for O to comply with the 
condition. So he thought Covea was entitled to rely on this in turning down the claim. 
O didnt agree. In summary it said:
Its bank had only offered a dual control facility from 2021 and so it wouldnt have been 
possible for it to comply with the clause prior to that date. It believed the facility had been 
created for charities and wasnt aimed at business customers. 
It thought any grey area should be considered in its favour and said Covea had tried to 
turn down the claim for different reasons which it had shown to be incorrect (for example 
in relation to whether a director could also be an employee). Given this, and the fact it 
was a long-standing customer of Covea, it thought it should honour the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Covea has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Os policy does cover Employee Dishonesty and says (subject to other terms) we will pay 
you for direct loss of money or property belonging to you or for which you are responsible 
caused by theft which iscommitted within the territorial limits by any employee during the 
period of insurance and during the uninterrupted service of such employee with you.
However, the policy contains a general exclusion which says it doesnt cover theft or 
attempted theft where any official or any member of an officials family or household be 
concerned as principal or accessory. And official is defined as you and any director, 
partner or employee of the business.
I agree those terms are in conflict wither each other; the policy provides cover for theft by an 
employee but the general exclusion removes that cover in its entirety. So the effect is to give 
cover with one hand (the insuring clause) and then take it away with the other (the exclusion 
clause). The legal position is that the insuring clause and exclusion clause need to be read 
together. If either clause is looked at in isolation, the consumer would or would not have 
cover, depending on which of the clauses one considers. I dont think its fair to say cover 
given by the insuring clause is taken away by the exclusion and agree Covea cant use that 
to turn down Os claim. 
However, thats not the only issue because its also relied on the fact that O hasnt met other 
conditions of its policy. And within the Employee Dishonesty section the policy says:
It is a condition precedent to our liability under this Section that the following minimum 
levels of control are used by you, unless otherwise agreed by usyou must operate a 
system of dual control and independent validation for all payments from bank accounts, 
including the drawing and signing of cheques and the use of electronic funds transfers
I dont think its in dispute Os arrangements with its bank didnt meet that condition. It says 
its bank only offered a dual control facility from 2021 which it wasnt aware of when the fraud 
took place. However, as the policy says you must operate I dont those arrangements 
would necessarily have to be with Os bank. Depending on their nature I think its possible 
internal controls could have met the requirements. And I understand O did have some 
internal controls because it told us payments over £2,000 needed approval from two 
administrators. However, the policy terms say all payments must be subject to a dual 
control system. So Im satisfied there has been a breach of the condition here. 
Under the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015 in order to turn down a claim for a breach of 
a condition like this the failure to comply needs to have increased the risk of the loss which 
actually occurred in the circumstances in which it did. Its for the insured to show it didnt. On 
the face of it I think its hard to argue this breach didnt increase the risk of loss. If a dual 
control system had been in place the other director would have been required to obtain 
authorisation for the transactions he was making. 
I appreciate he might have sought ways to circumvent that but the test isnt whether the loss 
would have been prevented but whether the breach increased the risk of the loss occurring. 
O hasnt provided any evidence to suggest it didnt. So I think it was reasonable of Covea to 
conclude non-compliance with the condition did increase the risk of the loss occurring (in the 
circumstances in which it did). 
Ive also considered whether its fair for Covea to rely on that condition. O says its bank 
didnt provide a dual control facility until 2021 and this was primarily aimed at charities. But I dont think that would have prevented it from making use of it. And if that system wasnt right 
for it then Im aware other banks also offer this service. In any event, as Ive said, O could 
have put in place its own processes to ensure compliance with the policy terms. In addition 
the policy says these terms apply unless otherwise agreed by us. So if O felt it was 
impractical to comply with this term in relation to, for example, very low value transactions 
thats something it could have discussed with Covea. 
I appreciate Covea did seek to rely on other terms when turning down the claim but it did 
reference the dual control issue in its initial claim decline letter in January 2023. I recognise 
in later correspondence it focused more on issues connected to the directors employment 
status and the exclusion clause. But that doesnt prevent it also relying on the dual control 
issue. And I dont think there is a grey area over the interpretation of this clause. Nor do I 
think the fact O is a long standing customer of Coveas provides me with grounds to require 
it to pay the claim either. 
I appreciate theres likely to be a significant impact on O if its claim isnt paid. I was very 
sorry to learn it may have to close. But the question for me is whether Covea has correctly 
and fairly turned down the claim it made. For the reasons Ive explained I think it has. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask O to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
James Park
Ombudsman