The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt  send him 
surrender forms for his whole of life policy when it should have done. As a result, the policy 
lapsed without value and Mr M wasnt able to benefit from the surrender value.
What happened
Mr M held a whole of life policy with Aviva. On 30 July 2018 he called Aviva to explain he 
was going to cancel his premium payments into the policy, and he wanted to surrender it and 
take the value remaining in it.
Aviva confirmed the surrender value in a letter sent to Mr M dated 31 July 2018. This letter 
also enclosed the necessary information about surrendering the policy, what the implications 
could be and the forms that needed to be completed and returned to Aviva to enable the 
surrender of the policy.
However, Aviva has said it heard nothing further from Mr M and so the policy remained in 
place until there was no value left it in and it lapsed almost a year later. This is when Mr M 
contacted Aviva and raised his complaint. Hes said he didnt receive the surrender forms 
and he feels Aviva has stolen the surrender value of the policy.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He was satisfied the surrender forms had been sent to Mr M and if he hadnt 
received them because of problems with the post Aviva couldnt be held responsible for this. 
He also felt it was reasonable that Mr M should have contacted Aviva if he didnt receive the 
surrender forms when he was expecting them.
Mr M didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view Aviva had acted 
incorrectly.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
I think its important to first point out that Aviva has administered the policy correctly and in 
line with its terms and conditions. It is normal for a policy to continue to be in force if it hasnt 
been surrendered, even though premium payments may have stopped. The policy remains 
in place providing the policy benefits, but it is maintained by using the value remaining in it 
until that runs out. At this point the policy will cease, or lapse, without a value.
DRN-1640594It isnt unreasonable for policies to work this way given life protection is a valuable form of 
assurance. So, it would be wrong for any policy provider to cancel a life protection policy 
without it being officially confirmed by the policy holder. 
I know Mr M has said he didnt receive the surrender forms and wants proof Aviva sent 
them. However, from everything I have seen I have no reason to doubt the forms were sent 
and to the correct address so I dont need further proof for this decision. If the forms werent 
received by Mr M because of failures in the postal system I cant hold Aviva responsible for 
that.
Furthermore, if Mr M didnt receive the forms it was for him to let Aviva know this. How would 
Aviva know they hadnt been received unless Mr M told it. Its not unusual for policy holders 
to change their minds about surrendering valuable life protection so again its reasonable that 
Aviva presumed this had happened.
I know Aviva also sent Mr M two letters in August 2018 notifying him of the arrears in his 
premium payments. This was due to the fact the arrears system is automated and so the 
letters are sent automatically when a policy hasnt been confirmed as being surrendered.
Having looked at those letters they both contain the following piece of information:
We [Aviva] confirm that your policy will continue to provide your existing benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months from the date of your first missed premium, or until your fund value 
runs out, whichever happens sooner. We [Aviva] will continue to take charges from your fund 
to meet costs of administering your policy and to pay for your current benefits. If your policy 
is still in force at the end of the 12-month period all benefits will be removed. If your fund 
value runs out at any time we [Aviva] will cancel your policy.
This makes it clear what will happen if the policy remains in place, but the premiums remain 
unpaid. So in my view if Mr M hadnt received the surrender forms he was expecting and 
then received these letters with this information I think he was in a position to contact Aviva 
and ask what had happened to the surrender forms or at the very least query what had 
happened to his request to surrender the policy.
Therefore, whilst disappointing for Mr M, I think it was Mr Ms responsibility to notify Aviva if 
he didnt received the surrender forms when he was expecting to so more forms could be 
sent out again. Also from the letters he did receive I am satisfied Mr M was made fully aware 
of what would happen to the policy if it wasnt surrendered and no further premiums were 
paid. And given Aviva didnt receive official confirmation that Mr M wanted to surrender the 
policy I think it has acted and administered it correctly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October  2020. 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman