DRN-3477434
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to properly monitor his credit card
account or offer him support when he was gambling compulsively. He has asked that it
refund all of the interest and charges that have been applied to his account.
Background
Mr B had a credit card account with Sainsburys between 2009 and 2020. He has said that
he used the card primarily for gambling during this time and that all of the associated debt on
the card, which was eventually closed in 2019 due to it falling into arrears, was the result of
his gambling problems.
Mr B has complained that throughout the time he was using the card, despite the fact that he
was either very close to, or just over its £8,800 limit and only making minimum repayments,
Sainsburys failed to properly monitor his account or offer him support when it shouldve
been apparent that he had a gambling problem.
Sainsburys has said that Mr B maintained the card well until 2018. He continued to meet the
minimum payments and there were no reasons for it to assume Mr B was experiencing
financial problems. It has said any charges applied to Mr Bs account were done in line with
the terms and conditions of his account and it hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr B was unhappy with Sainsburys response and brought the complaint to our service. I 
issued a provisional decision on his complaint on 7 April upholding it. In it I said that 
Sainsburys ought to have realised from January 2018 that Mr B was struggling to manage 
his finances and stepped in to offer him support. I recommended that Sainsburys refund all 
of the interest and charges applied to Mr Bs account from that point until the card was 
settled in May 2020. I also thought it was appropriate for Sainsburys to pay Mr B £300 in 
recognition of the distress and impact caused by the banks lack of support.
Mr B accepted the findings in the provisional decision.
Sainsburys rejected the decision. In its response it raised the following objections:
The gambling transactions on Mr Bs card showed as cash transactions but werent 
cash withdrawals and so wouldnt have been a cause for concern as gambling is just 
a hobby and a legitimate thing for someone to fund via a credit card
Its unreasonable to expect Sainsburys to diagnose Mr B as a gambling addict 
Mr B only missed seven payments in total so its unfair to expect the bank to have 
recognised he was struggling financially
These issues happened prior to the persistent debt guidance from the FCA and so 
there was no obligation on the bank to have reviewed Mr Bs account at the time
The letters sent to Mr B were sent by the previous administrators of the account and 
not by Sainsburys and these letters werent reviewed 
Mr B didnt tell Sainsburys about his gambling problem and lots of customers sit at 
the limit of their cards for prolonged periods of time without it meaning they have 
financial problems. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the objections raised by Sainsburys, but they dont change my opinion 
on Mr Bs complaint. I explain why below. 
Sainsburys has said that although the gambling transactions showed as cash transactions 
on the account, they werent cash withdrawals. While I accept this is the case, I note that 
Sainsburys still charged a £3 fee every time Mr B used his card for gambling, which often 
amounted to multiple additional fees being charged each month. The issue here wasnt 
whether or not the transaction were cash transactions, I appreciate they were obviously 
gambling transactions, its the fact that each £3 fee shouldve acted as an indicator to 
Sainsburys that the card was being used in an extremely expensive way. And the ongoing 
continuous use of the card in this way shouldve eventually triggered Sainsburys into to 
reviewing how the account was being managed. As I said in the provisional decision
 while I accept that Mr B was making minimum repayments, he was just making minimum 
repayments. The balance was never reducing significantly and in any given month 
approximately half of the minimum repayment he was making was only covering the interest 
and charges that was being applied to the account. The capital amount owed was barely 
reducing each month. I think this type of account management in and of itself shouldve 
prompted Sainsburys to review Mr Bs sooner than it did.
While I understand and agree that gambling is both legal and a non-problematic hobby for a 
large number of people, it is also one that some people can struggle to manage and one that 
has the potential to cause enormous financial harm. Sainsburys is aware of this fact and so I 
wouldve expected the bank to have considered contacting its customer to check this type of 
spending wasnt causing him problems. 
Sainsburys has also said its unreasonable to expect it to diagnose Mr B, or any of its 
customers, as having a gambling addiction. I agree with the bank entirely on this point and 
note the provisional decision made no requirement on it to do so. Rather it said that when an 
account is being poorly managed and used primarily for gambling purposes, when the 
balance is never decreasing and the consumer is being regularly charged additional fees 
because the bank processes gambling transactions as cash, it would be good practice for 
the bank to contact its customer and confirm they are comfortable with how they are 
managing their account. Particularly given how well documented it is that gambling, unlike 
other hobbies, does have the potential to cause significant financial harm to consumers and 
their families. 
Sainsburys has also said that Mr B only missed seven payments over the course of the 
cards history, and these were spread out over a number of years. Therefore, it feels its 
unfair to find that the card was being mis-managed or that the bank shouldve been on notice 
that Mr B was struggling to maintain it. However, the indicators I mentioned in the provisional 
decision were not just about missed payments but also the fact that Mr B regularly exceeded 
his limit. The bank was adding, not just standard monthly interest, but multiple additional 
charges for cash and Mr B was never making any real payment towards the capital owed. As 
I noted in the provisional decision:
 from August 2017 onwards Mr B had been over his limit every single month, bar October 
2017 when he had managed to bring the balance down to £8,763.75, approximately £36 
under limit. I also note in the same bill the interest charged was £177.49 and the minimum payment due was £197.18. Meaning if Mr B made the minimum payment the following 
month, he would reduce the capital owed by less than £20.
This is a recurring theme on Mr Bs statements and how he was using his card at the time. 
Sainsburys has also pointed out that the account was administered by a different bank until 
June 2018 and therefore it doesnt think its fair that the failure to contact Mr B before this 
time should sit with it now. However, as Sainsbury's is responsible for the account and there 
was sufficient evidence that the account wasnt being properly maintained the responsibility 
for this ultimately sits with Sainsburys now regardless of which organisation was reviewing 
the account at the time. 
In addition to the above point Sainsburys has also said that the provisional decision 
attempted to apply persistent debt rationale retrospectively onto the bank. This isnt the 
case. The Consumer Credit Sourcebook CONC and Principle 6 of the FCA handbook has 
always required that businesses treat consumers who are experiencing financial difficulty 
fairly. I am still of the opinion the way Mr B was managing his account at the time was 
indicative of someone experiencing financial difficulty and that there was enough evidence of 
this for the bank to have been aware. Therefore, it failed to treat Mr B fairly as per the long-
standing regulatory provisions that predate the persistent debt guidance that followed.
The final point made by Sainsburys in response to the provisional decision was that Mr B 
didnt explicitly tell the bank that he had a gambling problem and so its unreasonable for me 
to have expected the bank to have treated him as having one. 
While I appreciate it is easier for banks when consumers self-identify as vulnerable there is 
also an understanding that vulnerable consumers may not be able to do this at the height of 
their vulnerability. And as I noted in my provisional decision, I think there was sufficient 
evidence available to the bank to enable it to identify Mr B as potentially vulnerable. I say 
this because as Ive mentioned above, throughout 2017 Mr B was over his limit more months 
than he was under it, spending nine of the previous 12 months over his limit and only once 
managing to bring it down by anything more than £100. This means that although Mr B was 
making the minimum payments due, he was mostly just paying interest and charges and 
barely servicing the actual debt owed. There were also multiple additional fees added for 
cash/gambling transactions, as well as penalties for exceeding the cards limit. All of which 
were flags that Sainsburys shouldve picked up on and proactively asked Mr B if he needed 
any help managing his card. Had it done so I think it wouldve been able to confirm Mr B was 
vulnerable and did need its help. 
Therefore, my findings remain unchanged and I am still upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Sainsburys Bank Plc should:
Refund all of the interest and charges added onto Mr Bs credit card amount starting
from January 2018 until the account was settled in May 2020.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount*
Pay Mr B an additional £300 in recognition of the distress and impact caused by
Sainsburys lack of support and intervention
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. Sainsburys
Bank Plc must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and repeated above I am upholding Mr 
Bs complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman