DRN-2770958
The complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001, Ms M took out a PPI policy alongside additional secured borrowing she was getting 
from Lloyds. She paid a monthly amount for the policy and it would have covered her 
repayments for up to 12 months if she had made a successful claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Lloyds should have made it clear to Ms M that she had a choice in buying the PPI. Ms M 
says the policy was added without her consent. Lloyds has said Ms M would have been 
made aware she had a choice about buying it. And its provided us with copies of the PPI 
documents Ms M completed at the time. 
There is a proposal form for the PPI which has been completed and Ms M has signed. This 
leads me to think that there was a discussion around the policy and Ms M selected the level 
of cover which best suited her circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about 
how Lloyds sold policies like this at the time, I think the optional nature would have been 
made clear. 
So, I think it most likely that Lloyds made Ms M aware that she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember 
this now. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms M, so it had to make sure the policy was right for her. 
From what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable for Ms M based on her circumstances 
at the time. Ill explain why:
Ms M met the policys requirements so was eligible for it.
Ms M says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer. In the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid her mortgage repayments for up 
to 12 months if she was unable to work due to being too unwell. It wouldve also 
covered her if she became unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside      
Ms Ms employee benefits. This wouldve meant she could have used any sick pay 
she got to pay for other essential costs. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about Ms Ms circumstances that would have 
made it difficult for her to claim. For example, she didnt have any unusual working 
patterns or an existing medical condition. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Ms M would still have bought it. Ms M was taking on a large financial 
commitment, on her own, secured against her home. So, I think she wouldve wanted 
the security of knowing her repayments were covered if she was too sick to work or 
became unemployed. 
It doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for her and she couldve cancelled the 
PPI at any time if she no longer had a need or didnt want it.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, Lloyds should have taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Ms M. I dont know if Lloyds did point 
these things out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Ms M. And I dont think 
clearer information wouldve changed her decision. I think she still wouldve bought it. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Ms M has lost out as a result of anything 
Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
I know Ms M feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, but for 
the reasons explained above, these points dont change my outcome. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman