DRN-3571201
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that an Azimo Ltd account was fraudulently opened in her name and that 
it was then used to make payments which were funded by her bank account.
What happened
On 19 April 2021 Miss N was notified by her bank that Azimo had attempted to take £402 
from her current account, on checking her account she discovered payments totalling around 
£700 had already been debited from her current account by Azimo over the previous month 
or so. Miss M contacted Azimo to say these payments had not been approved by her, at the 
same time she also contacted Action Fraud about what had happened.
Miss N says that a fraudster opened the account with Azimo in her name but using an old 
email address and a phone number that wasnt hers. She believes her phone was hacked at 
some point  possibly while it was being repaired when she was on holiday abroad  and 
details stolen which allowed the fraudster to open this account with Azimo.
Azimo attempted to cancel one of the transactions, but the money had already been 
withdrawn by the recipient. Azimo also asked for the other payments to be recalled, but 
noted that it was unlikely the recall request would be successful. As a result, Azimo said it 
wouldnt be able to do anything more regarding refunding the payments, but that it had 
blocked the recipients from using Azimo in future. Miss N was unhappy with Azimos 
response and so referred her complaint to us. 
In its submissions to our service Azimo explained that when opening the account it had been 
given Miss Ns full name and address, as well as an email and phone number.
Our investigator looked into the matter, and based on what hed seen, he thought it was 
more likely than not that Miss N had opened the account with Azimo herself, and then 
requested the transfers to be made. 
Miss N didnt agree. She said that Azimo agreed it was not her that opened the account and 
maintained that the phone number associated with the account was not hers.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Azimo has shown us the information it recorded when this account was opened, which 
included Miss Ns full name and address and correct birthdate, as well as an email address 
which Miss N has said is an old email address of hers. So the only information recorded at 
that time that was not already associated with Miss N was the phone number. But that is not 
enough for me to safely say that Miss N didnt open this account or was not aware of its 
existence. 
I cant see that we have been given a reasonable explanation for how a third party would 
have got so much information about Miss N, including details of an email address she says 
she no longer uses. Miss N has suggested that a fraudster might have hacked her phone 
when she put it in for repair while on holiday in early 2020. She also says that since then she 
has received multiple phishing emails and texts, although shes not said shes responded to 
any of those. But that does not seem to me to be a plausible explanation for what has 
happened here. 
I dont think it likely that a fraudster would wait so long to start using Miss Ns details, nor can 
I see how someone repairing her phone would have been able to access all the details that 
were needed to open and use the Azimo account. I also note that the IP address used to 
both log into the Azimo account and to make the payments from is in the same general 
geographic area as where Miss N lives, and it seems very unlikely that a fraudster who stole 
Miss Ns information when she was in an entirely different country or through a phishing 
scam would end up ultimately making payments from a location near where Miss N lived.
I realise this isnt the outcome Miss N hoped for. But, taking into account everything Ive 
seen, I cant safely say that Miss N didnt open this account or allow it to be opened on her 
behalf. And given that I think she was aware of the account, it follows that I think she was 
also aware of the payments being made from the account. So I wont be asking Azimo to 
refund any of the transactions made from the account.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman