DRN-2950085
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCE Bank Plc (FCE).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint FCE, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Z acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs Z. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
I think there is a fault with this car. I say that because:
the dealership and a third-party garage both identified vibration in the transmission;
the dealership explained that the juddering could be averted if the car was placed in 
sport mode until a fix can be found. A car without a fault would not require fixing;
Mrs Z complained about the juddering only a couple of weeks after she took receipt 
of the car. I think that suggests there was a judder present and that judder was 
unacceptable;
I dont accept FCEs suggestion that the juddering was within acceptable limits for the 
reasons Ive bullet pointed above.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when FCE were responsible for the cars 
quality. I think the evidence points to this fault being present from the start and as the 
business werent able to fix the problem the remedy would have been to allow Mrs Z to reject 
the car.
But Mrs Z has subsequently exchanged the car. So, Ive thought about the best way to put 
things right for her.  
Putting things right
Id agree with the suggestion made by our investigator.
Whilst I can see that Mrs Z had good use of the car in the time she had it, I think that use 
was impaired by the juddering she experienced throughout, and her enjoyment would have 
been impacted. In those circumstances I think FCE should refund 10% of all instalments  
Mrs Z has paid. They should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mrs Z has been 
deprived of that money.
Mrs Z has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions; make frequent phone calls and escalate her complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances FCE 
should pay her £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
refund 10% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of 
enjoyment and impaired use and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs Z £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Zs credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman