DRN-4124777
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited closed his account without notice and didnt 
return the £20 that was present in the account to him. Mr R is also unhappy that the closure 
of his account meant he could no longer access his account statements, and that Wise 
havent responded to an appeal he made about the closure of his account.
This complaint relates solely to the personal account Mr R held with Wise and not to the 
business account he held, which is the subject of a separate complaint. 
What happened
Mr R held business and personal accounts with Wise. In December 2021, Wise contacted 
Mr R regarding his business account and asked him to provide the full name, full date of 
birth, and country of residence for a co-director of the business Mr R was a director of. Mr R 
didnt want to provide this information to Wise, and so he raised a complaint.
Wise didnt respond to Mr Rs complaint for several months, and when they did it resulted in 
a disagreement between Mr R and Wise. This led to Wise taking the decision to no longer 
offer their services to Mr R in regard not only to his business account, but to his personal 
account also. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he referred his complaints about both 
accounts to this service. 
One of our investigators initially looked at this complaint about Mr Rs personal account, but 
after they left this service, this complaint was taken up by another investigator. They didnt 
feel that Wise had acted unfairly by deciding to close Mr Rs personal account as they had, 
and they felt that Wise had been able to demonstrate that they had sent statements for the 
personal account to Mr R. 
However, our investigator noted that Wise hadnt reimbursed the £20 account balance back 
to Mr R in a timely manner, so they said that Wise should pay £150 to Mr R  in addition to 
£50 Wise had already paid to him  as compensation for the inconvenience and upset hed 
incurred because of this. Mr R wasnt satisfied with the view of this complaint put forwards by 
our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Wise have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr R has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr R for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr R notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr R and Wise. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
This complaint stems from Mr R not wanting to provide information about one of his co-
directors that Wise requested from him. This includes the full date of birth of the co-director, 
which I note wasnt available to Wise from public sources such as Companies House, where 
only the month and year of the co-directors date of birth were listed.
Wises request for this information doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and Wise have 
explained that they requested it in accordance with their interpretation of their regulatory 
requirements. As such, Im satisfied that they were entitled to request it. 
Mr R may contend that there was no regulatory requirement for Wise to request this 
information. But Im satisfied that it was for Wise  and not Mr R  to interpret their regulatory 
obligations and to decide their policies accordingly. And ultimately, it seems clear and 
apparent to me that Wise werent imposing any unfair burden on Mr R or acting 
unreasonably by requesting the information about the co-director as they did.
Mr R responded to Wise in the first instance and stated that Wise were placing an 
unnecessary burden on him by asking for this information. But its notable that Mr Rs first 
response to Wise about this matter was lengthier and more burdensome on himself than had 
he simply provided the information to Wise that Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to 
request. And I also note that its difficult to understand why Mr R was so reluctant to provide 
this reasonably requested information. 
Ultimately, the continuing failure of Mr R to provide the reasonably requested information to 
Wise, and the nature of the ongoing correspondence between Mr R and Wise about the 
matter, led Wise to take the decision to no longer offer services to Mr R  which resulted in 
the closure of Mr Rs personal account about which he here complains.
Mr R isnt happy about this. But in much the same way as a customer can choose to close 
their account and engage with another business, so a business can make the decision to no 
longer offer its service to a specific customer. 
I feel it was reasonable for Wise to have developed concerns about Mr R because of his 
reluctance to provide the information requested by them and the lack of transparency this 
displayed. And I also feel there was a clear breakdown of the business relationship between 
Mr R and Wise  as evidenced by the increasingly difficult nature of the communication 
between them. Consequently, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Wise to take the 
decision to no longer offer services to Mr R in a personal as well as a business capacity.
It's within Wises terms and conditions that they can close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. And given the above, I feel that this clause did apply in this instance and that 
therefore Wise didnt act unfairly by not providing a notice period to Mr R.I also note that the balance in the personal account at the time of account closure was 
relatively low  at £20  such that its difficult to envisage any significant detriment being 
incurred by Mr R during the time this amount was unavailable to him. And, while I accept that 
this £20 wasnt reimbursed to Mr R as quickly as it should have been, its my understanding 
that Mr R has now received this money and has been paid compensation totalling £200 by 
Wise for the late return of it. This compensation amount doesnt seem unfair to me, and so I 
wont be instructing Wise to take any further action in this regard.
Mr R is unhappy that Wise didnt respond to an appeal he made about the decision to close 
his account. But Wise have explained that Mr Rs personal and business accounts were held 
under the same membership number and that only one appear is permitted per membership 
number. Wise have also confirmed that they considered both of Mr Rs accounts in the 
appeal they considered for Mr R under his one membership number. 
Mr R has explained that hes never received a formal response from Wise regarding his 
appeal. As such, Id encourage Wise to provide this information to him, or highlight when it 
was previously provided to him. However, given that Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable for Wise to close Mr Rs personal account as they did, I dont feel that any 
unfair outcome has occurred here should an event of miscommunication about this matter 
have taken place.
Finally, Mr R is unhappy that Wise havent provided his personal account statements to him 
as he requested, which he lost access to at the closure of his personal account. But Wise 
have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that these were emailed to Mr R by Wise 
on 30 September 2022. Accordingly, I refer Mr R to the emails he received on this day, and I 
note that a further, separate email was sent that same day which included his business 
account statements. 
If Mr R hasnt received the personal account statements, he can request them from Wise 
again. But given that Im satisfied that Wise sent the personal account statements, I wouldnt 
consider the potential non-receipt of those sent statements to be something for which Wise 
should fairly be considered accountable for.
All of which means that I feel that a fair outcome to this complaint has already been reached. 
And, while I will be formally upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour, Ill only be doing so on 
the limited basis that Wise must make the payment of £150 to Mr R  which its my 
understanding theyve already done.
I trust Mr R will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
Putting things right
If they havent done so already, Wise must make a payment of £150 to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman