DRN-3291250
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service that he received from Lloyds Bank PLC, including that he
didnt receive a replacement debit card and regarding issues surrounding a block that Lloyds
applied to his account.
What happened
Mr H resides overseas. In May 2020, Mr H reported some transactions on his current
account to Lloyds which he felt might be fraudulent. Lloyds advised Mr H to cancel his debit
card and request a replacement. Mr H did this, but despite his request, Mr H didnt receive a
replacement debit card from Lloyds. Because of this, Mr H raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Hs complaint, but they noted that theyd sent several replacement cards
to Mr H at his overseas address as per his requests. Lloyds suggested that these cards may
have been stopped by the customs procedures of the country in which Mr H resided.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, or that Lloyds had subsequently blocked his
account so that he wasnt able to access his money held within it. Mr H contacted Lloyds
about this and was told that for the block to be removed, he would need to personally visit a
Lloyds branch and show documents which proved his identity. Mr H didnt feel that it was
reasonable for Lloyds to expect him to return to the UK to remove the block on his account,
so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Lloyds had demonstrated
that theyd sent the replacement debit card that Mr H had requested, and they felt that it was
likely that Mr H not receiving the card was as a result of issues surrounding his residing
overseas, and therefore wasnt because of any error made by Lloyds.
Our investigator also discussed the issue of Mr Hs account being blocked with Lloyds, who
explained that they had initiated the block because they had concerns about Mr Hs account.
Lloyds further explained that Mr H could contact them by telephone and provide the
information required to unblock the account verbally. However, when our investigator passed
this information on to Mr H, and Mr H did contact Lloyds by telephone, Lloyds werent
satisfied with the information that Mr H provided and declined to unblock his account.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds had made reasonable adjustments to help Mr H unblock his
account, and felt that following Mr Hs unsuccessful telephone call to Lloyds, it was fair that
Mr H should now be asked to visit a Lloyds branch in person to unblock the account.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 December 2021 as follows:
Lloyds have been able to demonstrate that they did send several replacement debit 
cards to Mr H, none of which he received. However, given the Mr H resides 
overseas, I feel that its more likely than not that the reason that Mr H didnt receive 
the replacement debit cards is because of an issue which relates to his overseas 
residency, such as postal or customs procedures, and as such Im satisfied that 
Lloyds havent made an error or omission that has led to Mr H not receiving his 
replacement debit card. Accordingly, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint.
However, with regard to the matter of Mr Hs account being blocked by Lloyds, while I
acknowledge that Lloyds were entitled to restrict Mr Hs account in the manner that 
they did, given that they had concerns about the account, I dont feel that it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have expected Mr H, as a person who resides overseas, to 
have presented himself in a UK Lloyds branch in order for the block on his account to 
be removed.
Furthermore, while I commend Lloyds for offering Mr H the opportunity to remove the 
block on his account by telephone, given that Lloyds werent satisfied with the 
information provided by Mr H when he telephoned them, I feel that it was incumbent 
on Lloyds to have taken further steps to try to assist Mr H in being able to unblock his 
account remotely, and that it wasnt reasonable for Lloyds to have halted their efforts 
at that point and expected Mr H to return to the UK in order to unblock his account.
And, while I note that while Lloyds ultimately did take those further steps, which did 
result in Mr Hs account being unblocked, Lloyds only took these further steps as a 
result of being prompted to do so by this service, and after Mr Hs account had 
remained blocked and unusable by him for several further months.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and I do consider that Mr H experienced an unnecessary
continuing detriment as a result of Lloyds not making reasonable further efforts to 
assist him in unblocking his account. For this reason, my provisional decision here 
will be that I am upholding this aspect of Mr Hs complaint and that Lloyds must make 
a payment of £450 to Mr H to compensate him for the upset and inconvenience he 
incurred.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr H and Lloyds the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. However, both Mr H and Lloyds confirmed that they were happy to accept the 
decision as outlined in my provisional decision letter, and so I see no reason not to issue a 
final decision upholding this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment of £450 to Mr H to compensate him for the upset and 
inconvenience that hes incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman