DRN-4461759
The complaint
Mr K complains that Equifinance Limited irresponsibly lent him a second charge mortgage 
(secured loan).
What happened
In September 2019 Mr K contacted a broker Ill call F to discuss taking out a secured loan. 
He wanted to explore consolidating existing unsecured debt to reduce his outgoings. At this 
time Mr K had a personal loan and a car finance agreement. The car finance agreement was 
due to end in 2024, and was at an interest rate of 10%. The personal loan would run until 
2023 and was charged at 5%. The combined monthly payments to both loans were around 
£534.
F recommended a loan to Mr K, with Equifinance as the lender. The loan was for £22,500 
over a term of 20 years on a repayment basis, with an interest rate of 12.5% fixed for the first 
five years and a monthly payment of £282.77. Included in the loan amount were a broker fee 
of £1,350 and a lender fee of £995. The secured loan therefore reduced Mr Ks monthly 
outgoings by around £250 per month.
In 2022 Mr K complained. Hed experienced problems maintaining the monthly payments on 
the loan. While this was because his circumstances had changed following the loss of his 
job, he said hed come to realise the loan was never appropriate for him. He said he wasnt 
in the right frame of mind at the time he took it out because of personal circumstances. He 
said that hed exchanged loans which would have been paid off within a few years for a 
much more expensive loan over 20 years  and which was secured on his property. He said 
the loan was irresponsibly lent and should never have been given to him.
Since taking out the loan, Mr K has experienced financial difficulties. Hes lost his job, and 
struggled to make repayments. He also complains about the support Equifinance has 
offered.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that while the loan 
appeared affordable, there were other matters that ought to have led Equifinance to question 
whether it was sustainable for Mr K, so he didnt think it ought to have lent. But he thought 
the support offered to Mr K when he experienced financial difficulties was fair and 
reasonable.
Equifinance didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt intend to uphold it.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ive also considered a separate complaint Mr K has brought against F, and have let 
the parties on that case know that Im provisionally minded to uphold that complaint 
and find that the loan was mis-sold to Mr K on the basis that it wasnt suitable for him 
to consolidate his existing debts. Having reviewed both complaints, I have a good 
overview of all the circumstances that led to Mr K taking out this loan.
Its important to note that Equifinance was the lender, but it didnt sell the loan or give 
Mr K advice. That was done by F, and it was therefore Fs responsibility to ensure the 
loan was suitable for him. It wasnt up to Equifinance to check that the loan met his 
needs  but Equifinance did need to ensure that it was responsible to lend. That 
means checking that Mr K would be able to repay the borrowing in an affordable and 
sustainable way.
Equifinance was therefore required to ensure the loan was affordable for Mr K. As 
the investigator explained, it made some mistakes in this  including mis-calculating 
the amount of commission Mr K received from his employer. But I agree with the 
investigator that looked at in the right way the loan would still have been affordable 
for Mr K, and so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint based on that alone.
Responsible lending is not just about whether the loan appears immediately 
affordable, though. Id also expect Equifinance to consider whether the loan was 
affordable  and sustainable  for Mr K in the long term.
Equifinance reviewed Mr Ks credit file and noted that he didnt have any missed 
payments or other apparent problems with credit. His credit file did show that hed 
recently taken out substantial credit. Around six months before this loan application 
hed re-mortgaged his main mortgage, increasing the balance. Hed also taken out a 
personal loan and a car finance loan. There wasnt a substantial amount of prior 
credit before that.
Our investigator said that this pattern of recently taking out large amounts of credit, 
only to then seek to consolidate it into this loan, ought to have led Equifinance to 
have made further enquiries. If it had made those enquiries  including asking to see 
recent bank statements  it ought then to have questioned whether this loan was 
sustainable for Mr K. That was because of the pattern of credit, and because it 
appeared that hed put much of that extra borrowing into a savings account and was 
using it to live beyond his means.
Ive thought carefully about this. The rules of mortgage regulation dont require a 
lender to obtain evidence of expenditure in the same way they do of income. They 
require it to obtain information about expenditure  and a lender can rely on what a 
borrower says unless there are common sense grounds for doubting it.
So Equifinance was entitled to rely on the information Mr K had given it about his 
expenditure, and didnt need to ask for supporting information such as bank 
statements  unless there were common sense grounds for doubting what hed said.
With hindsight, knowing what the bank statements showed, I agree with our 
investigator that there were real questions about whether this loan was sustainable 
for Mr K, because the information on the bank statements would have led 
Equifinance to question whether Mr K had given accurate information about his 
expenditure, and whether he would be able to afford the repayments from his income 
once his savings had run out without making substantial changes to his spending.
However, I can only say that Equifinance ought to have taken this into account if 
there are grounds for saying that, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have asked 
for more information about Mr Ks expenditure based on what it knew or ought to 
have known at the time of the application.Im not persuaded of this. There was nothing in what Mr K had said about his 
expenditure which was a cause for concern or presented common sense grounds for 
doubting what he had said. And I dont think his credit history ought to have prompted 
further investigation of his expenditure either. While hed taken out substantial 
borrowing some months before this application  not having done so in the past  the 
purpose of this loan was to consolidate that debt and reduce his monthly outgoings.
Whether or not that was a suitable course of action is a matter for the broker, not the 
lender in the related complaint I have found that it wasnt, and provisionally upheld 
the complaint against F. But as far as the lenders obligations are concerned, I dont 
think the fact that Mr K had taken out two loans previously which he was now 
applying to consolidate was enough to raise concerns about his level of expenditure 
or the sustainability of how he managed his credit commitments. This is not a case 
where the borrower had a long history of taking out and consolidating debt, or of 
taking out substantial volumes of credit suggestive of financial problems.
On balance, therefore, Im not persuaded that anything in the expenditure Mr K 
declared on his application, or in his past credit record, ought to have led Equifinance 
to question the expenditure hed declared on common sense grounds. It follows that I 
dont think I can fairly find that it ought to have known about and taken into account 
the pattern of spending shown on his bank statements as part of its lending decision. 
It was entitled to rely on what Mr K had told it.
I do have real concerns about the appropriateness of this loan for Mr K in his 
circumstances as they were at the time. But those concerns relate to the suitability of 
consolidating his unsecured debt in this way, and that is a matter for F not for 
Equifinance. I dont therefore intend to uphold the complaint that the loan was 
irresponsibly lent.
After the loan was taken out, Mr K fell into financial difficulties. Although it appears 
that he was living beyond his means at the time this loan was taken out, his 
difficulties with payment appear to have begun as a result of the loss of his job at the 
start of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. Equifinance agreed a payment deferral 
with Mr K in May 2020, and extended it to April 2021.
In 2021, Mr K told Equifinance that he hadnt found a new job, but that he had 
accepted an offer to sell the property. Later in 2021, Mr K told Equifinance that the 
sale had fallen through but that hed found another job. Equifinance agreed a 
payment plan to start clearing the arrears.
Unfortunately Mr Ks situation didnt improve, and he entered an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) in respect of unsecured credit hed taken out since this loan was 
granted. As a secured loan, this mortgage wasnt included in the IVA. But Mr K 
maintained the repayment plan until late in 2022, when he lost his job again. After 
reviewing his income and expenditure, Equifinance said there wasnt an affordable 
arrangement it could agree. In January 2023, when he brought this complaint, Mr K 
told Equifinance hed found another job. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr K has had. If he hadnt taken this loan, but 
instead had kept the unsecured debt that was consolidated, his circumstances might 
have been different  the debt could have been included in his IVA, for example. Ive 
taken that into account in the redress Ive proposed in the complaint against F.
But because I havent upheld this complaint about Equifinances lending decision, I 
cant hold it responsible for the situation he found himself in. And Im satisfied that in all the circumstances it offered Mr K appropriate support and forbearance and tried to 
work with him to reach an affordable way forward. I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances.
Equifinance didnt provide any further information. Mr K noted that Id upheld his complaint in 
full against F. He asked that I consider requiring this loan to be removed from his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision as well, and Ive considered again 
my findings on the separate complaint against F.
Having done so, I find I havent changed my mind. I dont think this loan was suitable for 
Mr K, and for that reason have upheld the complaint against F. But Im not persuaded, based 
on what it knew and could reasonably have been expected to know at the time, that 
Equifinance lent irresponsibly.
I havent required the loan to be removed from Mr Ks credit file. Credit file reporting is the 
responsibility of the lender, not the broker, so its not something I could include in the redress 
against F. 
In respect of this complaint, I havent found that Equifinance lent irresponsibly. It accurately 
reported to the credit reference agencies that Mr K borrowed this money, and accurately 
reported the conduct of the loan. I also bear in mind that if Mr K hadnt taken this loan he 
would have continued with the unsecured debts, which would also have been reported to his 
credit file. And even if I were to require Equifinance to remove this loan from his credit file, it 
would still show significant adverse entries relating to the IVA and the debts included in it. 
And I bear in mind that part of the purpose of a credit file is to ensure future lenders are 
aware of past history  which helps protect borrowers from future lending that may be 
inappropriate for them. Finally, if Mr K accepts my decision against F, his loan will be settled 
in any event  and marked as such on his credit file. In all the circumstances, I dont require 
Equifinance to remove the record of the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman