DRN-4158608
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out three loans. The first was in August 2020 for £5,000, the second in September 
2020 for £1,000 and the final loan was for £11,087 in March 2021.
 
Mr P says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he was gambling heavily and already had 
large debts elsewhere. He thinks Nationwide shouldnt have lent to him in the circumstances. 
Mr P asks for the interest on the loans to be refunded. 
Nationwide says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr P and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the loans.
 
Our adjudicator considered that Mr Ps complaint should be partially upheld. They thought 
that Nationwide had completed necessary and proportionate checks in relation to the first 
and second loans but that in the case of the third loan it had failed to act to do so. Our 
adjudicator thought that if Nationwide had done those checks it would have realised Mr P 
couldnt afford the borrowing. fairly on the outcome of those checks.
 
Nationwide disagreed with the view. It said that it agreed with the adjudicators view about 
the first two loans, but not the final one. Mr P agreed with the adjudicators view about the 
last loan, but not the first two.
 
As neither party agreed with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mr P had elsewhere and Mr Ps income and 
expenditure. There is no prescriptive list of what checks need to be done. There may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
that the lending was unsustainable.
Nationwide said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Mr 
P when he took out the first loan. It has provided some evidence of what it saw about Mr Ps 
finances at the time. This shows that Mr P declared an income of £1,950 which was verified 
by further checks with a credit reference agency. It also assessed Mr Ps income using 
comparable Office of National Statistics (ONS) date and concluded that his living expenses 
were in the region of £550 a month. Mr P had borrowing elsewhere and when taking his 
estimated repayments on those debts into account Nationwide concluded Mr P would have 
been left with a disposable income of £814.23 each month. 
Mr P hasnt disputed Nationwides estimates here, so on the information available to me I 
think Nationwide did necessary and proportionate checks and acted fairly on the results of 
those checks.
The situation was the same about a month later when Mr P requested a further loan of 
£1,000, ostensibly for car repairs. His first loan had been to buy a car. Mr Ps circumstances 
hadnt changed significantly in that time but, so the outcomes of the checks were similar 
(indeed, it assessed his repayments on existing debt to have reduced). Again, I dont think 
Nationwide did anything wrong here.
About six months later, Mr P applied for another loan. This time it was for just over £11,000 
in total and was a top up for loan one and consolidated both loans one and two. It 
constituted additional borrowing of £6,000 at a more favourable interest rate. Mr Ps 
additional costs for the borrowing were around £137. His disposable income was assessed 
as around the same as before which, on the face of it, made it look affordable. 
However, in the information Nationwide saw, it seems that Mr Ps circumstances had 
changed since they last checked. His borrowing had increased to over £15,400 from around 
£10,000 six months previously. He declared for the third time in eight months that he was 
buying a car or repairing a car. I think this ought to have led Nationwide to conduct further 
checks by verifying his income and expenditure. 
The only way Nationwide could have done this would be by asking to see Mr Ps bank 
statements. Mr P has provided bank statements for the account where his salary went into 
and from which he paid his bills. From these I can see that he was regularly significantly 
overdrawn. At the time of taking the loan he was overdrawn by £1,400. This appears to have 
been because he had been gambling heavily. Over the three months prior to the loan, he 
had spent £1500 on gambling. So, while notionally, he appeared to have sufficient 
disposable income to manage his existing repayments and his new borrowing, in reality his 
gambling, which Mr P indicates was out of control, was causing him to get further into debt. 
Nationwide submits that it is unreasonable to expect these types of checks to be completed 
given the volume of loans it deals with. It says that Mr P had an account with Nationwide 
which didnt show any concerns. As I have said before, the checks it needed to complete are 
not prescriptive, and nor is the point at which further checks need to be made defined in the 
rules and regulations. However, in my view I am satisfied that Nationwide needed to 
complete more checks than it did and, on the balance of probabilities, had it done so it would 
have understood Mr P was in financial difficulty and would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his borrowing. I think Mr P lost out as a result. Putting things right
Nationwide should not have provided the third loan to Mr P. To settle this complaint 
Nationwide should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given this 
loan.
Subtract the repayments Mr P has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Nationwide should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Mr P. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mr P 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on his credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been 
cleared
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly when it gave Mr P the third 
loan. To put things right I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman