DRN-3972694
Complaint
Mrs D has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs D bought solar panels for her home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Omni, and that business is therefore liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the supplier misleading 
Mrs D into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over 
the loan term which was 8 years. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Omni didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Omni didnt treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what Omni did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Omni needs to do to put things right for Mrs D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for Omni to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs D from the solar panels 
over a 8 year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs D is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Omni needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs D by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Omni to 
restructure Mrs Ds loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over an 8-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Mrs Ds solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and she has not 
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair 
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs D have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs D accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.  
Our investigator has requested a meter reading and utility bills from Mrs D, but these havent 
been sent in. As explained by our investigator, Mrs D should send in any information she has 
retained to help Omni work out what (if any) redress is owed to Mrs D. And I see no reasons 
why, at least, her most recent bills and a meter reading cannot be sent in. 
So Mrs D should provide her utility bills and a meter reading to enable Omni to work out how 
much (if any), redress is due to her. And as explained above, should the evidence and 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mrs D by way of explanation. 
If Mrs D has settled the loan, Omni should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs D has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Omni, and Omni should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs D paid each month with the Omni loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs D receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs D paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs D receives her refund.5. Pay Mrs D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs D first 
contacted Omni that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Omni should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman