DRN-2630836
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside an Egg branded credit card.
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in April 2003. It cost 74p per £100 of Mrs Cs outstanding monthly 
statement balance. And if Mrs C was too unwell to work or made involuntarily redundant, the 
policy would have paid off 10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to let Mrs C know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent 
before adding PPI to her account.
Mrs C says the policy was sold over the phone and she was told she needed to take PPI, so 
she didnt know it was optional. But Barclaycard has provided screenshots that show Mrs C 
applied for the credit card and PPI on the internet. It says the online application form made it 
clear the policy was optional and that Mrs C chose to take PPI at the time.
Barclaycard has provided copies of the internet pages it says are similar to the ones Mrs C 
would have seen when she applied for her card online. Looking at this, theres an 
explanation of what PPI is and two separate statements that give the customer options  
Yes to protect repayments and No to decline the cover. Barclaycards computer records 
of Mrs Cs application show she selected the Yes option during her application. So, I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs C would have been aware she had a choice and that she 
chose to take PPI.
Mrs C said that Barclaycard gave her advice about whether to have the policy and 
Barclaycard says it would not have. Ive thought about what Mrs C has said, but I think its 
unlikely Barclaycard gave her personal advice, because it was an internet application and 
Mrs C isnt likely to have spoken to Barclaycard in order to complete it. I also havent seen 
anything on the internet pages provided to suggest advice was given, so Ive considered the 
case on the basis that Barclaycard did not give Mrs C any advice. That means Barclaycard 
didnt have to check the policy was right for Mrs C, but it did need to give her enough 
information about the policy, so she could decide whether to take it or not.
From the information Ive seen, Mrs C was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the main things that might have made it harder for her to claim 
on the policy, such as, unusual employment circumstances or pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Mrs C says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. And she would have received redundancy pay if she 
lost her job. Mrs C also says she had very little savings at the time.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs C has said, but I think the policy could have been 
useful to her. The policy would have paid out on top of any employee benefits Mrs C 
received and she could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. Mrs C 
only had limited savings, so I dont think its likely this would have been enough to meet all of 
her expenses and the PPI would have enabled her to use her savings for any other financial 
commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult time. So, I think the policy could 
have been useful to Mrs C if she fell on hard times, particularly if she was off work for longer 
than six months, when her sick pay would have reduced by half.
I also havent seen anything to suggest Mrs C could not afford the policy.
Its possible the terms and cost of the policy werent explained as clearly as they should 
have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy could have been useful to Mrs C, I 
dont think this would have made a difference to her decision to take the policy. 
So, I dont think Mrs Cs PPI policy was mis-sold and Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell 
Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint because the PPI policy 
wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs C. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman