DRN-3473012
The complaint
Mr C complains that changes UKForex Limited (trading as OFX) has made to its processes 
mean he can no longer access his account or carry out transactions as he doesnt own a 
mobile phone.
What happened
Mr C has had an account with OFX since 2005. The account allows him to buy and send 
foreign currency.
In April 2020 Mr C complained to OFX that he could no longer access his account or carry 
out transactions as it had changed its processes  he said the changes meant he needed a 
mobile phone to verify himself. He was unhappy with this because he didnt have a mobile 
phone. He also complained that a statement on OFXs website wasnt true and 
misrepresented the FCAs requirements in relation to strong customer authentication.
OFX investigated Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. OFX said that Mr C could still log into 
his account online without having to go through strong customer authentication, meaning he 
could still book a foreign exchange transaction and view details of his settled and open 
transactions online. OFX said that hed only have to go through strong customer 
authentication if he wanted to add a new recipient, modify a recipient, or change his details 
online. If he wanted to do so, then hed need a mobile phone in order to receive the one-time 
passcode it would send him so that he could authenticate himself. OFX said that if Mr C 
didnt have a mobile phone he could telephone its customer service team instead who would 
be able to perform those steps for him  24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mr C was unhappy 
with OFXs response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. Having initially said that they didnt 
think OFX had acted unfairly  as Mr C was still able to access his account  our investigator 
said that they thought OFX ought to offer Mr C an alternative way to authenticate and pay 
him £200 in compensation. OFX said that the Payment Services Regulations dont require 
businesses to provide more than one method of authentication and that the FCAs guidance 
says that firms may need to provide alternative methods but not that they must do so or that 
the alternative must be available online. OFX said that much of the guidance on strong 
customer authentication had also focused on card issuers and firms who provide payment 
accounts to customers who engage in regular online banking. OFX said that it doesnt 
provide payment accounts to its consumer customers nor offer online banking in that sense 
and that its regulated services for consumer customers are limited to payment transactions 
following a foreign exchange transaction. In the circumstances, OFX disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look into this complaint. Thats what Ive done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has been using the internet and internet banking for over 20 years. He opened an 
account with OFX in 2005 and has told me that he did so because it was one of the first 
businesses to offer the ability to buy and send foreign exchange online. Hes also told me 
that he buys and sends foreign exchange in order to buy goods and services  he doesnt 
make money trading foreign exchange, nor does he buy foreign exchange only when going 
abroad. He has a number of accounts and hasnt bought or sent foreign exchange using 
OFXs service for over 10 years in part because hes used the services of other businesses. 
OFX has confirmed that Mr C hasnt used his account since 2011, and prior to that hed used 
OFXs services to buy or send foreign exchange less than 10 times. 
background
In October 2019 OFX emailed Mr C to let him know that his account now had an extra layer 
of protection and that hed need to enter a verification code on its website or mobile app if he 
wanted to:
add a new recipient;
modify recipient details; or
update or change his personal details. 
OFX says that it made these changes in order to implement new regulations that came into 
effect in September 2019  namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
These regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of 
the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The changes that OFX made to its processes  and its reliance on mobile 
phones according to Mr C as a way of authenticating  is at the heart of this complaint.
OFXs approach to implementing strong customer authentication  in 2019
OFX emailed Mr C in October 2019 to say that it had made changes to its security 
processes and that hed need a mobile phone or to use its mobile app if he wanted to add a 
new recipient to his account, modify a recipients details or update or change his personal 
details online. Ive seen a copy of the email, and an email from Mr C to OFX attaching it too. 
More importantly, I accept that those are the only times when Mr C would need to go through 
strong customer authentication, and that he can log onto his account without having to do 
so. That means hes still able to book a foreign exchange transaction and view details of his 
settled and open transactions online without having to go through strong customer 
authentication. I also accept that if Mr C needs to add a new recipient, modify a recipients 
details, or update or change his personal details that he can do so by calling OFXs 
customer service team.
OFX has said that the guidance the FCA has issued on strong customer authentication 
doesnt say that firms must provide customers with alternative methods of authenticating or 
that the alternative methods must be available online. I dont necessarily agree with that, and 
Ill explain why once Ive explained what the FCA has said on strong customer 
authentication.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
I accept that the guidance the FCA has issued was primarily aimed at card issuers and firms 
who offer payment accounts to customers who engage in regular online banking. I also 
accept that the account Mr C is complaining about is quite different and that only payment 
transactions following a foreign exchange transaction are likely caught. The regulations and 
the guidance are, however, one of a number of factors I have to take into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, I dont agree 
with Mr C that I have to conclude that OFX hasnt acted fairly or reasonably if I dont think it 
has offered a non-mobile alternative method of authentication.
Should OFX have done more for Mr C when he originally complained?
Mr C has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not OFX 
should have done more when Mr C originally complained and whether or not its actions were 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Ive also taken 
into account the nature of the account Mr C is complaining about and how hes been using it 
since he opened it and what he can still do and how.Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of OFX to 
make changes to its processes in light of strong customer authentication  its an important 
measure to help combat fraud. I agree with Mr C that OFX ought to have thought more about 
customers who dont have a mobile phone when it made changes to its processes, but in his 
particular case I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require OFX to do more. Mr C 
hasnt used his account to buy or send foreign exchange for over 10 years, and hes still able 
to log onto his account so can still book a foreign exchange transaction and view details of 
his settled and open transactions online. If he wanted to add a new recipient, modify a 
recipient, or change his details online  which isnt something hes done for over 10 years  
he can still do so by calling OFXs customer service team. He can do this 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable. Before issuing this final decision, I 
let both parties know my initial thoughts having reviewed this complaint and asked them to 
comment. Both parties did and I had a long discussion with Mr C who also sent me 
additional material which was helpful and appreciated.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask UKForex Limited to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman