DRN-3220870
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted British Gas when the boiler stopped working at a property he rented to 
tenants. The tenants had no heating or hot water. A few days later an engineer visited, but 
said he would need to come back a few days later. When the engineer came back, he fitted 
a part and was able to get the hot water working, but a fault was found with the pump. The 
engineer returned a couple of weeks later and fitted a part. The engineer advised that both a 
powerflush and a new boiler might be needed. Another British Gas engineer visited a few 
weeks later and said the boiler couldnt be fixed. Mr A arranged for a new boiler to be fitted.
When Mr A complained to British Gas, he said engineers hadnt turned up for some of the 
appointments, there had been issues with sourcing parts, hed had to reduce the tenants 
rent and it had also caused him stress. When British Gas replied, it accepted there had been 
poor service and inconvenience for Mr A and his tenants. It offered £500 compensation 
because of the poor service and the loss of rent.
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator said British Gas had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and that £500 was appropriate to deal with the issues 
raised.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I will explain why.
Mr A complained about several missed appointments and poor communication. He has said 
some appointments were moved or the engineer didnt turn up.  Ive looked at British Gas 
scheduling records and can see that a number of appointments were moved. Looking at 
those records, there wasnt always evidence to suggest that British Gas had told Mr A or his 
tenants this had happened. So, I think its more likely than not that for some of the 
appointments the engineers were rescheduled but Mr A wasnt updated. 
When the first engineer visited, he said some parts needed to be ordered. It seems to have 
taken a while for some parts to come into stock. I also noted that British Gas records of a 
phone call said Mr A had called in and expecting appointment tomorrow but part OOS [out 
of stock] and no ETA [expected time of arrival] yet as only ordered today. Told customer that 
once part comes in we will contact him or tenant. 
I asked British Gas why parts didnt seem to be ordered until several days after the first 
engineers visit and it said This is difficult to say, but they may have tried to locally source 
too and been unsuccessful. Im also aware that the day after that phone call, an engineer 
arrived with a part. So, I think British Gas explanation is credible. It clearly had sourced a 
part, even if it hadnt been able to source all of the parts required. When British Gas ordered 
the parts, it then also took a bit of time for them to come into stock, which I also think is 
consistent with it being more difficult to obtain some parts. Im also aware that Mr A had 
been told in a number of policy renewal letters that, due to the age of his boiler, some parts 
were now hard to source and that it might not be possible to fix the boiler if it broke down. 
So, I think British Gas had warned Mr A about the potential difficulty of finding some parts 
and finding parts seemed to contribute to the delays in trying to repair the boiler.
Mr A also said the delays led to a build up on sludge in the system and the boiler needing to 
be replaced. However, I havent seen anything to show this was the case. Mr As boiler was 
old and, over a number of years, British Gas had warned him about the potential issue with 
obtaining parts. While British Gas was trying to deal with the boiler issues it said the system 
needed a powerflush. But, I havent seen anything to support a view that a boiler not 
operating properly over a few weeks would cause sludge in a system or that this was the 
likely cause of sludge in the system owned by Mr A. 
So, I think there were communication issues and that British Gas didnt always seem to keep 
Mr A or his tenants up to date on what was happening. However, British Gas had previously 
made Mr A aware there were likely to be issues with obtaining parts for the boiler, which 
seemed to have a significant impact on it being able to carry out a timely repair to the boiler 
or the ability to fix it at all. Im aware the issues with the boiler affected both Mr A and his 
tenants, including Mr A reducing the rent. However, I dont think that was wholly down to 
British Gas or due to issues that were necessarily within its control. As a result, I dont think 
British Gas needs to cover the reduced rent or pay for the new boiler. British Gas offered 
£500 compensation as a result of what happened. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances and appropriately reflected the impact of the issues that were down to British 
Gas. As a result, I dont require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman