DRN-3155312
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) continued to charge her excessive
amounts for an overdraft facility when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
HSBC didnt agree that theyd been unreasonable with their overdraft charges and as Mrs A
was dissatisfied with their response she referred her complaint to this service.
Mrs As complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought
to have realised that Mrs A was experiencing financial difficulty by September 2018 and so
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from that point onwards.
HSBC didnt agree. They said the good industry practice the adjudicator had referred to
wasnt in place in 2018 and that Mrs A hadnt told them about any financial difficulties. They
noted that when Mrs A exceeded her overdraft limit it wasnt for long and they explained that
this wouldnt have flagged any potential problems. They therefore asked for a final decision
by an ombudsman on this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not have a free hand to investigate all of the complaints that are referred to me. I cannot
consider a complaint that is outside of the jurisdiction of this service. Our rules, set by the
Financial Conduct Authority, say that I cant consider a complaint if the complainant refers it
to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later);
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint. 
So, when considering Mrs As complaint about overdraft charges Ive only looked at charges 
made in the period up to six years before Mrs A referred her complaint to this service. So,
from 4 February 2014. Thats because as charges were applied frequently, and Mrs As was
experiencing some financial difficulty at that time, I think she ought to have been aware of a
cause for complaint in 2014.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees in October 2014; a point some
years earlier than our adjudicator had suggested. By this point, it ought to have been clear
that Mrs A was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period
of time.
I suggest that October 2014 is the relevant point at which HSBC should have identified the
problem because Im only looking at complaints from 4 February 2014 and because Ive
seen HSBC reviewed Mrs As overdraft in October 2020 (when they wrote to her) and I think
its therefore reasonable to suggest they would have done in October of each preceding
year.
Mrs A was hardcore borrowing by October 2014. In other, words she hadnt seen or
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. She hadnt been in credit all year
and was regularly using almost all of her £1,000 limit by the end of the month. So, it was
clear the overdraft was only likely to increase. HSBCs own literature suggests that
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure.
So, I think that Mrs As overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that
Mrs A wasnt using her overdraft as intended and they shouldnt have continued offering it on
the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mrs As overdraft usage and instead continued
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mrs A ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that HSBC didnt
treat Mrs A fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it
should put things right.
I dont agree with HSBC that there wasnt guidance in place at the time that they should
have considered and that would have led them to change their approach if they had. The
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) set out the rules which continue to apply to firms
specifically when carrying out credit related regulated activities. CONC 1 sets out guidance
in relation to financial difficulties; CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to
responsible lending and CONC 6 explains a firms obligations after a consumer has entered
into a regulated agreement.
Those rules make it clear that a lender shouldnt continue offering credit where the borrowing
is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or where its apparent the borrower may be
experiencing financial difficulties.
They also say that the firm should take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties
or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Mrs As overdraft was repayable on demand and she regularly needed to use all of the
overdraft allowance in each calendar month during 2014. So, I dont think the repayment
could have been met without her experiencing significant adverse consequences. The
overdraft was in itself more than her monthly salary and I think its clear she wouldnt have
been able to meet priority bills had she been asked to repay it. So, I think HSBC need to put 
things right for Mrs A.
My provisional decision
Having thought about everything, I currently think that it would be fair and reasonable in allthe circumstances of Mrs As complaint for HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges
applied to it after October 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have
been made HSBC should contact Mrs A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs As credit
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of
taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments
and returned to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC
should remove any adverse information from Mrs As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
she asks for one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further points for me to consider. 
Mrs A asked if they would need to remove any adverse information they had reported to her 
credit file. She explained that she had worked very hard to improve her credit file and didnt 
want her improved credit score to be blemished.
As I dont think HSBC should have offered the overdraft after October 2014 it follows that 
they also shouldnt have reported any adverse information about it from that point. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information which has led me to change my 
provisional decision. That now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
For clarity I would add that HSBC will need to remove any adverse reports theyve made to 
Mrs As credit file in relation to her overdraft, from October 2014.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above I uphold this complaint and tell HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right by:
Reworking Mrs As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges
applied to it after October 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have
been made HSBC should contact Mrs A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs As credit
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of
taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments
and returned to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC
should remove any adverse information from Mrs As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
she asks for one.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman