DRN-4006184
The complaint
Mr L says Tesco Underwriting Limited provided poor service when he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy after a non-fault incident in which his car was damaged. 
What happened
Mr L told us that in the initial call he made to Tesco on 14 September 2022 reporting the 
incident, its advisor said hed get a like for like hire car. But when his car was collected the 
next day, that didnt happen. Mr L queried it and another advisor told him hed been misled. 
Tesco then said it would provide him with the equivalent of a courtesy car (a small hire 
vehicle, not one similar to his car). But he didnt get the hire car until 17 September 2022, so 
he wasnt able to travel to work for two days and missed his birthday celebration. Mr L said 
he was also misled initially about having access to legal advice. And he said Tesco had 
failed to address all the issues in his complaint, which it had misunderstood.
Tesco said Mr L could have had a like for like vehicle had liability been accepted by the other 
insurer. But he shouldnt have been told hed get one in this case, as the other drivers 
insurer was a non-UK business and liability hadnt been accepted. That meant Mr L was only 
entitled to a standard courtesy car from the repairing garage. As none were available from it  
on 15 September 2022, Tesco tried to get a small hire car for Mr L straight away. But due to 
a general shortage of hire cars, one wasnt available for two days. 
In its first final response letter to Mr L in September 2022, Tesco said it didnt think hed been 
misled about hire or that hed been inconvenienced. But it issued a second final response 
letter in November 2022 that covered the issues dealt with in its first response again. In its 
later response, Tesco accepted that Mr L was misled when he first logged his claim. It 
accepted that he wasnt contacted immediately when it realised a like for like hire car 
couldnt be provided. It also accepted that although Mr L didnt have legal protection cover 
with his policy, he was told in error that Tesco could instruct solicitors to deal with any 
uninsured losses. Tesco noted that Mr L had sent numerous emails and made many calls 
about the claim due to its errors. It offered him £300 compensation.  
As Mr L didnt accept Tescos proposed resolution, one of our investigators reviewed his 
complaint. She noted that hed been upset and inconvenienced by Tescos actions, and she 
thought its communication with him could have been better. But she also thought it had 
provided sufficient compensation for the poor service he received. Mr L said the £300 
compensation was provided in relation to another complaint hed raised with Tesco. And he 
said the investigator had ignored Tescos pledge of a like for like vehicle.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has complained to Tesco about various matters, and the information Ive seen shows 
that it sent him four final response letters. The first and the last final response letters - issued 
on 22 September 20222 and on 8 November 2022 - refer to the issues under consideration 
in this complaint. (Two other issues were also referred to in the latter letter, but Tesco said it 
wasnt going to address either of them). No compensation was offered to Mr L in September 
2022. The £300 Tesco offered him in November 2022 was for providing misleading advice to 
him initially, not correcting its errors, poor communication, and poor overall service. 
The final response letter sent to Mr L on 29 October 2022 relates to another complaint that 
were dealing with currently (about repairs / damage to Mr Ls car). Tesco didnt uphold that 
complaint and therefore offered no compensation. The other final response letter (issued on 
6 October 2022) relates to an issue were not looking into currently  but Tesco offered no 
compensation in relation to that complaint, either.
 
As Im satisfied that Tesco issued £300 compensation in relation to this complaint, I think the 
question is whether that resolution to his complaint was fair and reasonable.
When Mr L made the claim, the advisor noted that it was non fault. In these circumstances, a 
like for like hire car is normally provided under a credit hire arrangement, and the cost falls 
on the other insurer. But for that to be possible, the other insurer has to accept liability, 
otherwise, the cost of hire may fall on the consumer. When Tesco realised it was dealing 
with a non-UK insurer (which meant an agreement on liability would be harder and would 
take longer than usual to obtain) it knew a credit hire arrangement wasnt appropriate. 
Theres no dispute about the fact that Tescos initial advice turned out to be wrong, but 
naturally, Mr Ls expectations were raised by what he was told. I dont think Tescos initial 
advice amounted to a promise or guarantee of a like for like hire car, but I think Tesco should 
have explained the situation to him as soon as it knew there was a problem. Instead, Mr L 
found out the next day when he called. In my opinion, Tesco then did all it could to arrange 
transport for him as fast as possible. He wasnt entitled to hire under the policy, just to a 
standard courtesy car from the garage, but it didnt have one on 15 September 2022, so 
Tesco tried to arrange hire that day. Unfortunately, in the wake of the pandemic, hire cars 
are in shorter supply than previously nationwide, which is a problem for all insurers.
I appreciate that two days without transport was very difficult for Mr L, given his work 
commitments and his birthday event, but I think the delay in getting a replacement car to him 
was beyond Tescos control.  And Mr L was in hire from 17 September 2022 onwards, albeit 
in a smaller vehicle than he would have liked. 
Tesco has accepted that it also misled Mr L initially about his having access to legal advice 
for uninsured losses. But as he didnt have legal cover on the policy, I dont think there was 
any detriment to him as a result of that other than raised expectations. 
In my opinion, Tesco should have recognised the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr L 
when it first addressed his complaint in September 2022. He told it that apart from being 
without a car for two days, he had to spend a lot of time on calls and emails to it and to the 
hire firm. He complained about being misled, not having a like for like replacement car, and 
about Tescos poor communication. He queried why its texts asked him to call them, so he 
had to do all the work. Mr L doesnt think Tesco addressed all his concerns.
 
I can see why Mr L was shocked when Tesco didnt accept initially that he had reason to 
complain - but in its later response it acknowledged that he had to spend undue time 
contacting it. It apologised for its poor service. It accepted hed been misled about hire (and that it hadnt told him immediately why a like for like car couldnt be provided). It also 
accepted that hed been misled about legal assistance. It said it had now instructed solicitors 
to contact him (despite the fact that he had no legal cover). So I think Tesco made a 
reasonable attempt to deal with Mr Ls concerns. Had it not reviewed its initial response, I 
would have required it to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience of around 
the same amount that it eventually offered.  
 
I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, but I think the £300 offered by Tesco is 
sufficient to reflect the upset and inconvenience he faced as a result of its errors.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman