DRN-4056209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my intended decision.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Ks complaint be upheld. In summary she said:
There were issues in the service AXA had provided during the claim, including delays 
in settling the claim for the fence. But the compensation AXA had offered was fair 
and in line with what she would recommend.
AXA had applied the terms of the policy and settled the claim fairly for the Fence.
She felt the trees were forming a hedge. So, AXA were unfair to class the trees as 
contents and it should proceed to be consider it under buildings in the claim.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. Its commented that from reviewing images of the 
trees prior to the damage they do not appear to have been maintained as hedges. Its also 
referenced the height of the trees and that they are above the legal limit.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 May 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not intend to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Service
AXA accepted it could have handled Mr and Mrs Ks claim better at points. I can see Mr and
Mrs K needed to chase for updates and in particular there was a delay in providing
settlement for the fence. AXA has offered Mr and Mrs K £225 compensation  which I think
fairly reflects the inconvenience they have been caused by AXAs actions.
Fence Settlement
The terms of the policy say AXA can offer repair or replacement through a preferred
supplier. But if it agrees to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not be more than the
amount it would have paid its preferred supplier. This isnt unusual term and is common in a
lot of insurance policies.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ks reasons for replacing the fence quickly. The fence forms the
boundary of the property, they have young children, and the back garden was exposed. But I
cant see this was discussed with AXA before the repairs took place, so it didnt have the
opportunity to agree the amount for the works to take place. So, I dont think its acted
unfairly in settling at the amount it would have cost it to carry out the work.
The Trees
The type of tree in place in the property is versatile and can be used for hedging, but to do
so it would need to be maintained as such. A hedge isnt defined in the policy so Ive thought
about the everyday definition of hedges, which would be a row of bushes or small trees
planted close together to form a boundary.
Here, although arguably it adds to the privacy and aesthetic of the garden, its not the
primary boundary to the property  the fence is. And from reviewing photos Im not
persuaded they are functioning as a hedge.
The trees are significantly taller than the fence of the property and dont appear to have been
maintained as hedges, and therefore have grown as trees.
Trees are defined as contents in the policy, so I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably in
how it has offered to settle the claim here.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with my provisional findings. They provided further comments for 
me to consider  which I want to assure them Ive considered in full. 
In summary they said, prior to the fire, at the rear of the property, there was hedging in a 
continuous row. They said although this was not professionally pruned on top it was 
maintained. And this was hedging forming a boundary and could not be passed through. 
They also noted fencing was installed following the accident to close off the boundary as 
they were unable to reinstall hedging back to its pre fire condition. Mr and Mrs K have also 
provided several photos of the boundaries around their property and surrounding properties 
 both from before and after the fire.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs K have said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
I do appreciate what Mr and Mrs K have said here. I want to assure them Ive thought about 
what theyve said very carefully. From what I can see in some of the photos the trees at the 
rear of the property have grown thick and this would make it difficult to pass through, as Mr 
and Mrs K have said.
But Im still not persuaded these can be classed as hedges. Some of the photos of the rear 
of the property, pre and post fire, show tall trees. And if I compare this to the area Mr and Mrs K have said to be of the side of the property, which I think does look more like hedging, 
Im not persuaded these are similar. 
So, for the reasons above and those in set out in my provisional findings  I dont think AXA 
have done anything wrong in classing the trees as such.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman