DRN-3620828
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she lost to an 
investment scam.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill provide a brief overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In March 2021, Ms C met someone through a dating application who suggested they could 
help her make money from cryptocurrency. Ms C set up an account with Binance, a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, and began sending money from an account with 
another bank. The exchange converted her money into cryptocurrency, which Ms C then 
sent on to a trading a platform. In April 2021, Ms C opened a current account with Barclays 
and transferred money from her other bank, before sending it on to her Binance account. 
She sent around £86,000 to Binance from her Barclays account through a combination of 
faster payments and debit card transactions. Unfortunately, the platform subsequently turned 
out to be a scam.
Ms C reported the matter to Barclays and asked for help in recovering her money. Barclays 
contacted the beneficiary bank regarding the faster payments, but no funds remained in the 
recipients account. In relation to the debit card transactions, it said it didnt have sufficient 
information to present a chargeback. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the recovery of funds 
once it became aware of the scam. They also considered whether Barclays could have done 
more to prevent the funds from being sent in the first instance and concluded that it was 
unlikely that an intervention would have prevented or limited Ms Cs loss. 
Ms C didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. Her complaint 
about her other bank has been considered under a separate case reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms C authorised the disputed payments. They were requested 
by her using her legitimate security credentials, and the starting position is that banks 
should execute authorised payments  even if the consumer is duped into making 
them  without undue delay. 
As Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms C was scammed, Ive considered 
whether Barclays ought to have reimbursed her any of the disputed payments under 
the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Debit card 
transactions arent covered by the code. In relation to the faster payments, the code 
only applies to payments made directly to another person. Payments made to a 
customers own accounts arent covered by the CRM code. That means the codes 
provisions arent relevant to Ms Cs complaint  her payment instruction was to send 
money from her Barclays account to her own cryptocurrency wallet.
While I find the CRM code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
As this was a newly opened account, there was limited previous transaction history 
that Barclays could have relied on when assessing whether the transactions made by 
Ms C were significantly out of character or unusual. I dont consider the first 
transaction of £1,000 on 16 April 2021 to be so unusual such that I think Barclays 
ought to have intervened before executing it. But the next payment of £5,000 on 
18 April ought to have triggered its systems. Certainly, by the time Ms C authorised a 
second payment for that amount on the same day, Barclays ought to have paused 
the payment pending further investigation.
Causation is a critical determinative factor in every scam case. It isnt enough that a 
payment service provider failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions 
must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably 
foreseeable at the time of the breach. I cant know for certain what would have 
happened if Barclays had contacted Ms C about the payment before executing it. In 
such situations, I reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities but rather on 
what I find most probable to have happened in the circumstances. In other words, 
I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  so what I consider most 
likely to have happened considering the evidence and wider circumstances of the 
case. This includes taking into consideration actions that were taken.
During the relevant period, Ms C continued sending payments in connection to this 
investment opportunity from her account with the other bank. A payment that she 
authorised on that account on 11 April triggered the banks fraud detection systems 
and a security call took place. During that call, there was a discussion about the 
prevalence of cryptocurrency scams. I also note that Ms C wasnt forthcoming with 
her answers to what I consider were sufficiently probing questions. Based on that, 
I think its more likely than not that the same thing would have happened here had 
Barclays properly questioned Ms C at the time I think it should have. I know shes 
said that the scam would have been uncovered had Barclays intervened 
appropriately. But having considered what happened when her other bank 
intervened, Im not convinced. Under the circumstances, Im not persuaded that a 
suitable intervention from Barclays would have led to a different outcome.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds 
after Ms C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered. In relation to the debit card payments, Ms C made payments to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammer. She wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in 
the circumstances because the firm she paid had provided the services as intended 
(i.e. purchase of cryptocurrency). So, I dont think Barclays was under any obligation to raise a chargeback dispute for Ms C. For the faster payments, I can see that 
Barclays contacted the beneficiary banks when it was notified of the scam. The 
beneficiary bank took time to respond and unfortunately no other funds remained. 
I dont think Barclays could have done anything further in this regard. 
In summary, I know that Ms C will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time and shes lost a lot of money. But having considered 
the matter carefully, I wont be asking Barclays to make good her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman