DRN-2068259
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2008 to support her mortgage.
   
What happened
Mrs C complained to this Service. She said she didnt know she had this PPI policy. So she 
concludes it was added without her knowledge. She said she already had separate 
insurance cover called Paymentshield, so she didnt need the PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like she was 
offered an optional policy; it was suitable for her needs when it was taken out. The 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but added Mrs C probably would 
have chosen to have PPI anyway.
Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Santander made Mrs C aware the policy was optional. She said she 
didnt know she had bought PPI. But I looked at the Your Paymentcare Needs and Our 
Recommendations which was a letter from the Santander adviser confirming what Mrs C 
needed. It said: You told me that you wanted £168 per month to cover your monthly 
mortgage and related outgoings, if you couldn't work through accident or sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. And I also saw section 9 of the mortgage offer which said Mrs C 
wasnt required to take any insurance with Santander. So I think Mrs C had a conversation 
with the adviser and told the adviser she wanted PPI to cover the extra borrowing, although 
she could have declined PPI. So I think Mrs C probably was aware PPI was optional and 
that she consented to have it added to her mortgage account  although I can understand 
she may not remember this. 
Santander said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for Mrs 
Cs needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for her because she was eligible to buy the PPI 
policy, it seems the policy was affordable for her and I dont think she was affected by the 
things the policies didnt cover (the exclusions). 
Mrs C said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits from her 
employer if she was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she had other insurance 
cover, and her family could help her if she couldnt make the monthly repayments.
However, having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mrs C thought the 
policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee benefits. I think the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her employee benefits at a time when she might have 
needed it most. So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable.
Mrs C said she had another insurance policy called Paymentshield to cover her mortgage. 
And she produced a copy of a bank statement from 2020 to show a payment for 
Paymentshield. However, this does not show she had the Paymentshield before or at the 
time of the PPI sale in 2008. So I wont be able to rely on it as evidence in this case. This 
means that I dont think the bank statement shows the Paymentshield policy made this PPI 
policy unsuitable for her in 2008.
Mrs C said she could rely on her family to help her. I do understand her point, but there was 
no guarantee that she could still rely on this help at some unknown point in the full term of 
the mortgage. So I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable for her.
So overall, I think it was useful for Mrs C to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage 
repayments instead of using her other funds and insurances which could be used for other 
expenses. So I dont think her finances at the time of the sale made the policy unsuitable for 
her. 
I also looked at whether Santander gave Mrs C enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, the documents have shown the cover she required and the 
cost. So I can reasonably assume they were also probably discussed during the telephone 
call. As Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for her, I 
dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put 
her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mrs Cs attention  this is a potential 
shortcoming in the sale. But as I dont think she was affected by any of the main exclusions, 
I dont think she would have decided not to buy PPI even if she had been given a full list of 
the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs C was aware PPI was optional and she 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for her circumstances and that she had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman