DRN-4322447
The complaint
Miss H and Miss P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the claims handler acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss H and Miss P took out a single trip Extra travel policy through a broker, which was 
underwritten by Great Lakes. Theyd been abroad and were due to fly back to the UK on 13 
March 2022.
However, when Miss H and Miss P reached the airport, they learned that their flight had 
been cancelled, as the airlines operations had been suspended indefinitely. So they had to 
purchase new flight tickets in order to return to the UK. They made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the flight costs theyd incurred.
It took Great Lakes over six months to assess and decline Miss H and Miss Ps claim. It 
considered the claim in line with the abandonment provision of the travel delay section of 
the policy. As abandonment cover only applied to the outward journey, Great Lakes 
concluded that Miss H and Miss Ps claim wasnt covered.
Miss H and Miss P were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Miss H and Miss Ps claim was covered under any section
of their travel insurance policy. So he didnt recommend that Great Lakes should pay the
claim. However, he didnt think Great Lakes had handled the claim in a fair or timely way.
And he thought this had caused Miss H and Miss P some distress and inconvenience. So he
recommended that it should pay them £200 compensation.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendation. But while Miss H and Miss P
accepted the investigators view on compensation, they didnt agree with his finding that its
been fair for Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think Great Lakes had treated Miss H and Miss P fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Miss H and Miss Ps policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide
whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Great Lakes
contract with Miss H and Miss P. I agree that Miss H and Miss Ps claim isnt covered by the
cancellation section of the policy. Thats because Miss H and Miss P didnt cancel their
holiday  theyd travelled as planned and were at the airport, ready to start their homeward
bound flight. And neither do I think their claim is covered by the abandonment provision of
the policy. Its clear that abandonment cover only applies to the outbound part of the journey.
As Ive said, Miss H and Miss P were unable to take their planned return flight back to the
UK.
Having considered the policy as a whole, Im satisfied that theres no section which provides
cover for the costs of their new flights. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to
Miss H and Miss P. But the cost of buying new flights after an airline has cancelled a
policyholders pre-booked flights simply isnt something Great Lakes has chosen to cover.
And in my experience, many insurers wouldnt provide cover in these circumstances either.
Thats because, generally, the airline which cancelled the flights would be responsible for
refunding the original flight costs/offering replacement flights.
However, Im not currently persuaded that Great Lakes has fairly considered whether Miss H
and Miss P should be paid travel delay benefit in line with the policy terms. And so Ive gone
on to explore this further.
Section 11  Travel delay and abandonment says that Great Lakes provides the following
cover:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total per
Insured Journey, up to the sums insured shown in the Table of Benefits, in the event of
Your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from Your original scheduled
departure time from Your first departure point on Your outward journey or Your last
departure point on Your return journey as a result of
Cancellation by the transport provider of Your scheduled pre-booked international flight,
ferry, train or coach.
What is covered
1. Travel delay benefit:
a. For each complete 12 hours of delay; or
b. In the event of 4. (cancellation by the transport provider), corresponding to the delay in 
departure that You would have experienced had You waited for the earliest replacement
travel arrangements offered by Your original transport provider, in the event that You choose
to make earlier alternative travel arrangements.
Ive thought about this very carefully. The policy says that Great Lakes will pay delay benefit
if a transport provider cancels a flight. In this case, its acknowledged that the airline
cancelled Miss H and Miss Ps flight. On the other hand, Miss H and Miss P were able to
purchase a new flight for the same day and therefore, they werent delayed by more than 12
hours. And technically, their cancelled flight was the first leg of their homeward international
journey. So on a strict application of the policy terms, their claim isnt covered under the
travel delay section of the contract either.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. And thats the case here, as Ill explain.
Miss H and Miss P had travelled to the airport to catch their pre-booked flight. Theyd made
every effort to check-in. Their airline has provided a letter confirming that it cancelled their
flight for operational reasons. My understanding from my own research is that the airlines
flights were suspended indefinitely by the regulator for safety reasons. The suspension
appears to have been lifted on 17 March 2022  five days after the initial grounding. As
such, it seems that if Miss H and Miss P hadnt arranged new flights at their own expense,
the original airline wouldnt have been in a position to rearrange flights for them within 12hours. It appears that the original airline couldnt have looked into rearranging the flight until
17 March 2022 at the earliest. And therefore, Miss H and Miss P could have been delayed
abroad for substantially longer than they actually were. Id add too that I think its fair to treat
the cancelled flight as Miss H and Miss Ps final departure point, because effectively, it was
the start of their return journey, even if that journey was broken down into connecting flights.
The policy states that Extra cover pays £50 for each 12-hour period of delay, up to a
maximum of £400. Thats equal to four full days of delay. As Ive set out above, the policy
says that Great Lakes will pay benefit corresponding to the delay a policyholder would have
experienced if they waited for their original transport provider to rearrange flights. Ive taken
into account the grounding of the airlines fleet until 17 March 2022. This was four days after
the flight had been cancelled. On that basis, I think the fair outcome here is for Great Lakes
to calculate and pay delay benefit for a full four day period, as thats the earliest point I think
the original airline would likely have been able to rearrange flights for Miss H and Miss P.
Thats equal to the maximum delay benefit of £400 per person.
So I currently plan to direct Great Lakes to pay Miss H and Miss P delay benefit for a full
four-day period, in line with the policy terms.
Great Lakes accepts that there were delays in its assessment of Miss H and Miss Ps claim.
Its now agreed to pay them £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience
this caused them and Miss H and Miss P have accepted this award too. On that basis, I
dont think I need to make any further finding on this point and I also intend to direct Great
Lakes to pay Miss H and Miss P £200 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings. Miss H and Miss P queried whether I 
intended to award £200 compensation per person, or £200 in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has made any substantive additional comments or provided 
new evidence, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
Miss H and Miss P queried the amount of compensation I intended to direct Great Lakes to 
pay. I can confirm that in my view, total compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable for the 
delays in Great Lakes assessment of the claim. And so, in addition to the award for travel 
delay benefit, Im directing Great Lakes to pay a total award of £200 compensation to Miss H 
and Miss P  effectively £100 compensation per person.
Overall, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons,My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Miss H and Miss P delay benefit for four full days, 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I also direct Great Lakes to pay Miss H and Miss P £200 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman