complaint
Mr R and Miss S say Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
policy in 1998 and 2003. Both policies were intended to protect their mortgage repayments. 
The policy sold in 1998 cost Mr R and Miss S £25.74 a month and was set up to provide a 
total benefit of £450 with a 60:40 split between Miss S and Mr R respectively. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R or Miss S was unable to work due to sickness 
or unemployment. This policy ended in July 2003. 
In 2003 Mr R and Miss S arranged a further advance and another PPI policy was arranged 
at this time. The policy was free for the first three months and then cost £19.75 a month. It 
provided a total benefit of £350 and was also split 60:40 between Miss S and Mr R. The 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R or Miss S was unable to work due to 
sickness or unemployment. This policy ended in August 2004. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr R and Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr R and Miss S 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr R and Miss Ss case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Mr R and Miss Ss complaint about either sale. Ill explain 
why.
1998 sale
CBS shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Mr R and Miss Ss agreement to take it out. Mr R and Miss S say they were 
given the impression they needed to have the PPI if they wanted their mortgage. 
The policy seems to have been arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the 
discussions between Mr R and Miss S and the adviser involved. CBS hasnt been able to 
provide paperwork that was completed at the time. This isnt unusual for a sale that took 
place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. So Ive 
considered Mr R and Miss Ss comments alongside what we know in general about how 
CBS sold PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have happened. And based on what 
I know about how CBS sold PPI I wouldve expected there to have been conversations with 
the CBS representative about the PPI and paperwork wouldve had to be completed to 
confirm the level of cover, the benefit split and to set up the policy. 
DRN-1872528So, taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional, although I can understand why Mr R and Miss S may not remember this as it 
was so long ago.
2003 sale
In 2003 it seems Mr R and Miss S required a further advance and thats when they were sold 
another PPI policy. This policy was also arranged during a meeting. At this time CBS had to 
make it as clear as possible the PPI was optional. Mr R and Miss S say that in 2003 they 
were also led to believe they had to have the PPI if they wanted the borrowing. 
CBS has been able to provide a sample application form that it says is the same, or very 
similar to the form Mr R and Miss S are likely to have completed. Ive considered this form 
alongside Mr R and Miss Ss comments. Within the sample form I can see there are multiple 
types of cover available, and they can be selected by ticking the relevant box. There is also 
an option within this form to decline the offer of PPI. I think its likely any discussions with the 
CBS representative wouldve reflected the details on this form. And if Mr R and Miss S 
werent sure about the cover, I wouldve expected them to question it before signing any 
paperwork. 
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Mr R and Miss S gave 
their consent for the MPPI to be set up on this occasion too and the policy was presented as 
optional. Although I can understand why they may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Ive also considered Mr R and Miss Ss comments that they felt pressured into taking out the 
MPPI in 1998. They say that Miss S was pregnant and this was a stressful time for them. I 
appreciate this, but Mr R and Miss S havent been able to say what exactly the CBS advisor 
said or did to make them feel pressured. Thats understandable given the time thats passed. 
I can accept the representative may have told them it was a good idea to take the policy. But 
this isnt the same as pressure. So overall I havent seen enough to uphold the complaint 
only on what Mr R and Miss S have said.
CBS didnt provide Mr R and Miss S with advice to take out the MPPI policies. This means it 
shouldve given them clear information about the policies so that they could make a proper 
choice about whether or not to take them out.
I dont know what steps CBS took to do this on both occasions and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information 
wouldve changed Mr R and Miss Ss decision. I think theyd still have bought it and Ill 
explain why.
The MPPI provided cover for both Mr R and Miss S. And from what I can see it seems they 
were both eligible for the MPPI on both occasions as they met the basic requirements of 
the policies.
Looking at their circumstances at the time of both sales they wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment 
arrangements. I can see Mis S was pregnant at the time the 1998 MPPI was arranged. 
Looking at the closest available policy terms Miss S may not have been able to claim for 
pregnancy related illnesses, but she would still have been covered for other health 
conditions. So Mr R and Miss S couldve benefited from the cover provided by the policies. 
Miss S says she wouldve received generous sick pay from her employer of up to 6 months if 
she was off work unwell. Mr R says he also wouldve received up to 6 months sick pay. 
However, I still think the MPPI wouldve been useful as it wouldve covered part of the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if either Mr R or Miss S was out of work due to 
accident, sickness or redundancy. Mr R and Miss S have confirmed they had no other 
insurance at the time or savings to rely on. So it seems Mr R and Miss S wouldve benefited 
from the cover provided by the MPPI policies.
Mr R and Miss Ss mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that part of the repayments 
wouldve been made if either of them was unable to work or unwell wouldve been important 
to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr R and Miss S. And as both the 
policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled them if they 
no longer met their needs.
Ive thought about everything Mr R and Miss S have said, including the comments family 
helping out if they needed it. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of Mr R and 
Miss Ss family to help. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that 
assistance would have been available to them as and when they needed it. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Coventry Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman