DRN-2568726
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him incorrect information regarding the 
clearance time for a cheque, which caused him embarrassment and led to him not being 
able to purchase a property he had intended to buy abroad.
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I will only summarise events here.
In August 2019, Mr W paid a cheque, for £800, into his Barclays bank account. Mr W 
intended to use these funds towards a deposit for a property abroad. Mr W has told us that, 
prior to making arrangements to pay the deposit for the property he intended to buy, he 
contacted Barclays to confirm with it when the cheque would clear. 
Mr W has said he communicated with Barclays through its online chatroom and was advised 
the cheque would clear the following day. But, the following day, when Mr W tried to make a 
payment for the deposit at the estate agents abroad, he was unable to do so as the cheque 
hadnt cleared. Mr W has told us this led to him being unable to purchase the property he 
had intended to, it led to him having to make a further trip abroad to complete the purchase 
of an alternative property and it caused him embarrassment and inconvenience.
Mr W complained to Barclays and it issued its final response on 11 January 2020. It 
acknowledged it had given Mr W incorrect information regarding the clearing times for his 
cheque and that it should have advised him in writing that the cheque was going to be 
unpaid. It offered to pay Mr W £100 in recognition of the failings.
Mr W thought the £100 was inadequate to put things right and so he brought his complaint to 
our service. Mr W considered that Barclays should pay him the £800 for the uncleared 
cheque and alongside this it should increase its compensation for the distress and anxiety, 
refund him the cost of phone calls he had to make and also recompense him for the cost of 
the additional trip abroad he had to make, in order to purchase an alternative property. Mr W 
has said he blames Barclays for the fact that he was unable to complete the purchase of his 
first choice of property. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary, 
while he thought it was clear that Barclays had mis-informed Mr W regarding how long the 
cheque would take to clear, he thought the compensation Barclays had offered was fair. He 
said that while he understood not having the money from the cheque may have caused the 
sale not to go through, he couldnt hold Barclays responsible for the cheque not clearing, 
that was the responsibility of the third party who had issued the cheque. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. In summary he said;
- it was only based on the assurances from Barclays that the cheque would clear, that 
he arranged an appointment to purchase the property. 
- hes still short of the amount of the cheque and is not able to chase the person who 
wrote it. And thinks Barclays should compensate him for this, as it told him 
unequivocally that the cheque would clear.
- he had to make several phone calls from abroad to the UK and he should have these 
refunded
 
The case has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted it made mistakes and so the only issue I have to decide is whether 
the level of compensation its paid Mr W is enough to compensate for any embarrassment or 
additional costs he has incurred as the result of its error. I know my decision will disappoint 
Mr W, but I think the compensation Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why. 
There isnt a set formula to decide the level of compensation which would be appropriate. 
And we cant punish banks as were not the regulator. We take into account all the relevant 
factors and look at the impact the banks errors has had on its customer. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Mr W would have arranged to visit the estate 
agent and attempt to pay a deposit, if he hadnt been given incorrect information regarding 
when the cheque would clear. And having attempted to make the payment for the deposit, 
only to find he was unable to, I can understand how this would have caused Mr W 
embarrassment.
But I also have to consider that, in any event, the cheque didnt clear, and those funds would 
never have been available for Mr W to use. And while I understand Mr W is disappointed at 
losing his first choice of property. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Barclays 
responsible for this, or for the additional costs that Mr W incurred in having to make a further 
trip abroad to purchase an alternative property. The funds werent available to Mr W due to 
any error Barclays has made, the funds were ultimately unavailable because the cheque 
was returned unpaid by the drawers bank. 
Just because Barclays indicated to Mr W that a cheque would clear, but which then didnt 
clear, it doesnt automatically follow that it should compensate Mr W with the value of that 
cheque. For similar reasons as I have mentioned above, I cant reasonably expect Barclays 
to have to give this amount to Mr W, when it hasnt made an error in the funds not clearing. 
Overall, I can see Barclays recognised it made an error and apologised and offered a 
payment of compensation. Im persuaded the compensation it offered is a fair amount thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience that Mr W would have been caused through being 
embarrassed in the estate agent and having to make calls to the UK from abroad. It is my 
opinion that the cause of Mr Ws disappointment in not getting his first-choice property is 
down to the cheque not clearing and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Barclays is at 
fault for this.   
I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But I think Barclays has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im satisfied that the compensation its 
already offered is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anymore here.I can see Mr W has said he may consider taking matters through the courts. Mr W doesnt 
have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on him. Subject to any 
time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ws right to pursue a legal remedy 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman