DRN-4340774
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a logbook loan CarCashPoint Limited (Car Cash Point) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Car Cash Point provided Mr S with a loan of £2,060.00 in July 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £250.64. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Car Cash Point had told us. And he 
thought that Car Cash Point hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Car Cash Point needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Car Cash Point needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether  Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Car Cash Point provided Mr S with a logbook loan for £2,060.00 in July 2022. This loan was 
to be repaid in 24 instalments of around £250. which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was around £1,500.00. Car Cash Point says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided 
details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and copies 
of bank statements. All of this information showed Mr S could comfortably make the monthly 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr S has said he was struggling, had a poor credit score and had already 
been turned down for a loan by another lender.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Car Cash Point have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Car Cash Point has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received. It shows that Mr S had had previous difficulties with credit in the form 
of county court judgments (CCJ). But these were historic as they had been obtained more 
than a year and four years prior to this application and one of them had also been settled 
too. 
So I do agree with Mr S that he may well have had a poor credit score and I also think that 
relying on a credit check alone, in these circumstances, is unlikely to have seen Car Cash 
Point carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. But Car Cash Point didnt rely solely 
on the credit check it also requested copies of Mr S bank statements. 
And what was contained in these bank statements doesnt obviously contradict the 
information recoded on the income and expenditure assessment. And certainly not to the 
extent that they ought reasonably to have alerted Car Cash Point to the fact that the loan 
payments were unaffordable. 
I appreciate that there were cash withdrawals on the bank statements. But Mr S was still 
making all of his payments from this account and he also explained that he gave the funds 
he was withdrawing to his partner. And given what the credit search showed about Mr S 
active credit commitments, I dont think that it was unreasonable to accept this explanation.
Furthermore, bearing in mind this was Mr S first loan with Car Cash Point, the monthly loan 
payments in comparison to Mr S income and there being nothing else to contradict the not 
unreasonable figures arrived at in the income and expenditure assessment, I dont think that 
it was unreasonable for Car Cash Point to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Car Cash Point obtained. For example, Mr S has 
referred to having previously successfully complained about other lenders and this is likely to 
have had an impact on his credit file. But Car Cash Point did not and could not have known 
about this.
Equally the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, I think 
that Car Cash Point carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found 
out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Ive also considered Mr S arguments regarding another lender having declined a similar 
loan application just before Car Cash Point accepted this one. But each lender decides its 
own risk profile. Indeed, Car Cash Point might have been prepared to lend to Mr S because 
it was providing a logbook loan. And I wouldnt expect a lender to automatically decline a 
customers application simply because another lender has. Id expect it to carry out its own 
affordability assessment underpinned by reasonable and proportionate checks. And, Im 
satisfied thats what Car Cash Point did here.   
As this is the case, I dont think that Car Cash Point did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr S. And overall I dont think that Car Cash Point treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing him with his loan. Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, I would remind Car Cash Point about its 
obligations to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Mr S is 
experiencing financial difficulty and is struggling to make his loan repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman