DRN-3416478
The complaint
Mr G complains advice given by Grosvenor Consultancy Limited to transfer the deferred 
benefits from two defined benefit occupational pension schemes, release a tax-free lump 
sum and use the balance to purchase an annuity was not in his best interests. 
Mr G is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC), which has 
changed since his complaint has been with this service.
What happened
In late 2018 Mr G was recommended by a colleague to consult an advisor from Grosvenor 
Consultancy Limited (Grosvenor) to discuss his pension. 
Mr Gs circumstances at the time of the advice were as follows:
He was aged 54, married with one dependent child
He was working full time on a salary of £21,000
The balance on his mortgage was around £48,000
He had deferred benefits from two defined benefit (DB) occupational pension 
schemes (OPS) from a previous employer. The combined transfer value of these was 
just under £207,881 guaranteed to 19 January 2019 (£260,067 including his AVC 
contributions)
He had savings of around £20,000 held in Italy (Mr G is Italian) 
Grosvenor provided Mr G with its suitability letter dated 28 November 2018.  It set out Mr Gs 
six objectives:
1. Retire from full time employment age 55 (in January 2019)
2. Take as much tax-free cash (TFC) as possible from his OPS;
3. Clear his mortgage;
4. A secure income for life with a widows benefit;
5. Move to Italy to start a business (a boxing gym with his brother) 
6. Rent his house out
Mr G needed sufficient monthly income to maintain his house and provide a reasonable 
standard of living. Hed receive income from renting out his house in the UK and live rent-
free with family in Italy. His minimum annual income requirement was around £7,800, but 
ideally hed like £10,800. 
The report set out the combined benefits from his two DB OPS would provide Mr G with the 
following benefits:
Based on retirement at age 55  TFC of around £46,800 and guaranteed annual 
income of just over £7,018 indexed (increasing each year) 
Based on retirement at age 65 - TFC of just over £68,521 and annual income of just 
over £10,302 (indexed)
Mr G said he didnt want to take any investment risk as a secure income and a spouse 
pension were important to him. 
Grosvenor identified Mr G had no previous investment experience and very low capacity for 
loss. A partial transfer or taking benefits from the OPS were both rejected, as they wouldnt 
generate sufficient TFC to repay Mr Gs mortgage and provide capital for his new business. 
So Grosvenor recommended he transfer the benefits from his OPS to a pension plan with 
A to release the higher amount of TFC of just under £65,017. 
Mr G had been clear he wanted to take no investment risk. So instead of a drawdown plan, 
Grosvenor recommended he use the balance after TFC to purchase an annuity, to provide a 
guaranteed income for life, with provision for his wife. Grosvenors research suggested an 
annuity with provider C would provide Mr G with annual income of £7,764 and a widows 
pension of £5,175, guaranteed for five years. But it would research the market again once 
the funds came through. Grosvenors fee to be deducted from the transfer value was 2%. 
Grosvenor warned Mr G that by transferring out of his OPS hed be giving up a guaranteed 
escalating income for life and reducing the amount of widows pension. And after five years, 
the OPS would have increased with indexing to provide a higher level of income than the 
best annuity quote. Grosvenor also suggested that instead of transferring, Mr G could take 
benefits from his OPS, and address the shortfall in TFC by borrowing £18,000 over ten years 
for his business. Which it estimated would cost him around £173 per month based on an 
interest rate of 2.9%.
Mr G intended to be debt-free in retirement, so he accepted the advice to transfer out of his 
OPS to release the TFC and then purchase an annuity. He retired from his employment at 
55 and used the TFC to repay his mortgage as planned. In early February 2019 he had a 
further meeting with Grosvenor to discuss his options for the balance. Grosvenors letter of 
15 February 2019 said it had reviewed the annuity options for a level term joint annuity with 
a five-year guarantee. Mrs Gs smoker status entitled Mr G to an enhanced annuity. So the 
annual income had increased from the original quote to just over £8,194, with a 66% spouse 
pension. Mr G apparently rejected an index-linked annuity (where the amount increases 
each year), as the initial income would be lower, and he wanted a higher level of income 
early in retirement. The annuity started from the end of February 2019. 
Mr Gs CMC complained to Grosvenor in April 2020, saying it had provided negligent advice. 
They said (amongst other things) Mr Gs wish to take a higher amount of TFC to repay his 
mortgage and set up a business werent good enough reasons for the transfer. He could 
have taken benefits from his OPS and used his savings for the shortfall in the mortgage. 
Grosvenor didnt uphold the complaint saying that transferring was the only way Mr G could 
have met his stated objectives without borrowing money. They said Mr G wasnt subject to 
investment risk, as the annuity provided a guaranteed income for life with a 66% spouse 
pension compared to the 50% spouse pension provided by the OPS. And a level annuity had 
been selected, as it provided a higher initial income than the index linked annuity. So 
Grosvenor was satisfied its advice had been suitable. 
In June 2020 Mr Gs CMC referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
upheld it, making the following points in summary:
The FCAs presumption of unsuitability of final salary pension transfers set out in 
the FCA guidance at COBS 19.1.6.  
Mr G had received a higher amount of TFC than he would be entitled to under the 
OPS, a higher initial income and 66% spouse pension but the OPS income was 
index-linked whereas the annuity is paid at a flat rate for life.  
Mr G had no debts, could comfortably meet his mortgage payments and wasnt under 
financial pressure. Wanting to use the TFC to retire early and pay off his mortgage didnt make the 
advice suitable. 
Mr G has found the income provided by the annuity isnt sufficient, so has resumed 
working part-time. 
He hasnt been able to move to Italy to start his business, as his son is still in college.
While an annuity provides a guaranteed income, its likely the rate offered by the 
provider at age 55 would be poor value, given it might need to be in payment for over 
30 years. 
He didnt think Mr G had a compelling reason for taking benefits when he did. And as 
he appears to have no other retirement provision, he felt overall Mr G is worse off by 
transferring.  
So he upheld the complaint and set out how he thought Grosvenor should put things 
right. 
Grosvenor disagreed with the outcome, saying in summary:
Mr G had made the decision to retire and take benefits at 55. But the OPS wouldnt 
provide enough TFC to repay his mortgage, and the income from the OPS was lower 
than the annuity;
If he found the annuity income inadequate, hed have struggled even more in the ten 
years until state pension age if hed taken benefits from the OPS. 
Mr G hasnt received rental income from his home, but he has the benefit of the 
balance of the TFC after repaying the mortgage. 
Mr G was given the option of an indexed annuity, but he found this unattractive as 
the starting income was lower. 
If the option of Pension Increment Exchange (whereby a higher initial income or TFC 
and income is provided instead of an index-linked pension) had been available from 
Mr Gs OPS, hed have chosen it. 
Their recommendation, which provided Mr G with more TFC plus an annuity which 
guaranteed higher initial income than an index-linked one or the OPS was suitable 
advice.  
Finally if the complaint was upheld it should be on the basis that Mr G returns the 
additional TFC he received, plus the additional income hes had for the last two 
years, in exchange for Grosvenor paying his increments when the annual income 
under the OPS exceeds £8,198. But they didnt think Mr G would want to accept 
those terms. 
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as Id come to a different outcome from the 
investigator. I made the following provisional findings, in summary: 
The approach of this service when considering transfers from defined benefit pension 
schemes aligns with the FCA guidance (COBS 19.1.6G), which is the assumption they will 
generally not be suitable. 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
So if a consumer wishes to transfer the guaranteed benefits from a defined benefit pension, 
an adviser must demonstrate that this is in their best interests based on their individual circumstances. They must also be satisfied the consumers stated objectives are realistic, 
and dont subject them to an unacceptable level of risk. 
Mr G had decided to retire from his job as a driver, giving up the income of £21,000, and to 
access the deferred benefits from his OPS. To generate additional income until state 
pension age, he intended to set up a boxing gym business in Italy with his brother. Hed use 
the TFC to repay his mortgage, leaving money to invest in the business, in addition to his 
Italian savings. Plus hed receive rental income from his UK property while he could live rent-
free with family in Italy. 
Grosvenor initially discussed investing Mr Gs pension to provide an income. But 
because he was unwilling to take any investment risk, the adviser recommended the balance 
after TFC be used to purchase an annuity. Which would pay him a guaranteed income for 
life and provide a 66% spouse pension, compared to a 50% spouse pension under the OPS, 
although annuity rates are likely to be less favourable when starting as young as 55. If Mr G 
had been prepared to wait until 65 he could expect TFC of over £68,000, and income of 
£10,300 from his OPS. But delaying to 65 didnt fit with his plan for his new business, and it 
would involve paying his mortgage for a further ten years, and he wanted to be debt-free. If 
he took benefits from his OPS at 55 the TFC would be much lower (and not quite enough to 
clear the mortgage), and the income would start at only £7,018. Mr G had thought his 
mortgage was around £48,000 but when he came to redeem it was actually around £52,000 
so the TFC from the OPS wouldve fallen far short of what was needed. Making up the 
difference from his Italian savings would limit what he could invest in his business, and a 
personal loan was discounted as Mr D wanted to be debt-free. 
On the other hand, the OPS income was index linked, increasing by the lower figure of RPI 
for February and 5%, or 2.5% for pension accrued after 2009. Even though RPI has been 
low for several years an indexed pension is beneficial to keep abreast of inflation. But even 
based on a 5% annual increase, I thought it would take more than five years for Mr G to 
receive more per year than the £8,198 hes entitled to from the annuity. And Mr G said his 
priority was a higher level of income in early retirement, rather than provision for later life. An 
escalating annuity had been discussed but rejected as the income starts at a lower level, 
around £5,005 with a 66% widows pension based on the options provided to Mr G. And 
while a spouse pension is important, Mr G was in good health, so there was no reason to 
think he was at higher than average risk of dying early. And in fact the enhanced annuity 
was provided due to the likely impact of Mrs Gs smoker status on her life expectancy. 
Mr G seemed unclear what he would have done differently or what he thinks wouldve been 
suitable advice, telling our investigator he thought the Grosvenor adviser could have got him 
a better deal. If Mr Gs intention had been to retire and take benefits at 55, expecting to 
provide an income for his family until state pension age, I didnt think recommending a 
transfer from his OPS would be suitable advice. But Mr G had presented a considered plan 
to generate additional income by starting a business using his qualification as a personal 
trainer. Hed already decided to retire from his driving job. But taking benefits from his OPS 
at 55 wouldnt have provided the level of TFC Mr G required. 
Mr Gs plans have changed since the advice  hes taken a part-time job as he finds the 
pension income inadequate, even now he has no mortgage to pay, but he hadnt intended it 
to be his only income. The pandemic and injury, as well as his sons education have 
prevented him starting his business in Italy. So as well as having no income from his 
business he also hasnt benefitted from the anticipated rental income from his property. But 
those factors couldnt have been foreseen at the time of the advice. Mr G asked Grosvenor 
to find a way for him to achieve his objectives to retire at 55 and maximise his income 
without taking unnecessary risk, and as far as I could see, theyd done that. They pointed out 
the risks, and suggested other options, such as taking benefits later, or taking out a loan but these didnt appeal to Mr G. I couldnt say the advice to transfer was unsuitable, due to 
events or changes in circumstances which happened after the advice and couldnt have 
reasonably been foreseen. So I didnt think the complaint could be upheld.  
Responses to the provisional decision
Grosvenor accepted the decision and had no further comments. 
Mr Gs CMC didnt agree, making the following points, in summary:
Mr G could have taken benefits from his previous OPS at 55, providing TFC and a 
guaranteed income;
It shouldnt be assumed Mr Gs savings in the post office in Italy werent accessible;
Mr G couldve used the TFC to repay the majority of his mortgage, retaining a small 
affordable mortgage, leaving his Italian savings intact;
It was never the intention that Mr Gs wife and son move to Italy with him, they would 
remain in the UK property, Mrs G was in full-time employment so she could afford the 
mortgage;
The FCA requires firms to distinguish between a clients objectives and their requests 
or preferences, accessing TFC is not an objective;
Mr G had other ways of accessing cash and retaining his benefits;
Mr G says Grosvenors report was way above his head and contained a lot of 
jargon;
Mr G wasnt happy to give up his index-linked pension and doesnt know why the 
report said he was;
The annuity was only guaranteed for five years, whereas OPS benefits are index-
linked and guaranteed for life. Mr G was in good health, so can expect his life 
expectancy to be well beyond 60, making him worse off;
Grosvenor had a duty of care to Mr G, and should have explored all options enabling 
him to make an informed decision;
Overall the advice wasnt in Mr Gs best interests
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs circumstances and plans have changed since the time of the advice. While he did 
retire from his driving job, hes taken another job as he found his retirement income 
inadequate. He wasnt able to start his business in Italy due to injury, and the impact of the 
pandemic on gyms and foreign travel. That all happened quite soon after Mr G decided to 
transfer which Im sure caused him to reflect on things. But I must base my decision on his 
circumstances at the time, and on what he told Grosvenor about his realistic plans and 
objectives, as they were then. And not how they seem now, with the benefit of hindsight. 
As well as the FCA presumption of unsuitability, an adviser is required to act in their clients 
best interests, based on a thorough understanding and assessment of their needs and 
circumstances. But for that to work, the client has to be open about their circumstances, and 
the firm is entitled to rely on the information its given. Grosvenor was also expected to 
communicate in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, and provide sufficient 
information for Mr G to make an informed decision. 
Mr G says he found Grosvenors report confusing and full of jargon he didnt understand. So 
Ive looked carefully at the reports again. There were two, one dated 28 November 2018 in relation to the transfer, and a second dated 15 February 2019 about the purchase of the 
annuity.
But prior to the suitability reports being issued, Mr G had an initial telephone discussion with 
Grosvenor in September 2018. And a face to face meeting on 3 October 2018 in which a 
fact-find was completed. In this document its recorded Mr G intended to leave his driving job 
in January 2019. He intended to clear his mortgage in February when the tax free cash 
pays out and that later he intends to move to Italy and will rent out the house. On 9 
November 2018 the adviser emailed some options to Mr G as follows (figures rounded): 
These figures have been calculated using the figures supplied by [scheme] on the 12 and 19 
October 2018. They assume that you retire at age 55 and take the maximum tax free cash 
and an income.
Total pot including AVC = £260,067 (£9,489 AVC element not guaranteed)
Taking benefits from [OPS]
Increasing annual income of £7,018 for life and tax free cash of £46,789
This also has a widow pension of £6,205 per year
Moving Money Away From [OPS]
Increasing annual income of £5,005 for life and tax fee cash of £65,017
This has a widow pension of £3,336 (66%)
Or
Level annual income of £7,764 for life and tax free cash of £65,017
This has a widow pension of £5,175 (66%)
Or
Level annual income of £7,362 for life and tax free cash of £65,017
This has a widow pension of £7,362 (100%)
By moving away from [OPS] you will be able to release more tax free cash, however you 
need to consider the important points noted below.
Important Points To Note
1. If you decide to move away from [OPS] you will be giving up a guaranteed increasing 
income for life
2. By choosing the higher level income you will be reducing the amount of widow 
pension
3. Increasing at 2.5% per annum the [OPS] pension would be higher than the highest 
level pension after 5 years 
Mr G considered those options and he contacted Grosvenor to say he wished to go ahead, 
so the 28 November 2018 meeting was arranged for him to sign the paperwork. I think the 
options and risks were set out clearly, he wasnt put under pressure, he had adequate time 
to consider and discuss them with his family, and he could have decided not to proceed. 
Mr G signed at the foot of both pages of the TVC at the meeting to confirm his 
understanding. 
The November 2018 suitability reports opening paragraph says its the outcome of  our 
meeting, emails and phone calls which supports Grosvenors position  that  Mr G had plenty 
of opportunity to discuss things with the adviser and ask for clarification about anything he 
didnt understand. It also confirmed Mr G had received leaflets Things to consider before seeking advice and Your guide to DB transfers. Ive seen the second of those leaflets 
which is headed Make the right choice, not a rushed choice. It sets out the difference 
between defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes and contains a warning 
that transferring will not be right for everyone, not to be blinded by the size of your transfer 
value or allow yourself to be pressured by family and friends and to take time to weigh up 
the options before making a decision. 
While I cant know Mr Gs level of comprehension, as far as I can see, the leaflets, options 
email, and suitability reports are written in clear and straightforward language, with very little 
jargon. Specific pension-related terms such as Transfer Value Comparator (TVC), and 
Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) are explained. The purpose of the TVC is to show 
whether Mr G would be better or worse off by transferring. It contained a straightforward bar 
graph and the phrase (figures rounded) It could cost you £100,998 to obtain a comparable 
level of income from an insurer. This means the same retirement income could cost you 
£58,300 more by transferring, so I think the consequences of accessing a higher level of 
TFC were made clear. But Mr Gs priority was provision for the short term while he 
established his new business, which is why he also rejected the escalating annuity. 
Mr G told our investigator that at the first meeting with Grosvenor he was encouraged to take 
all sorts of risks with his pension, but he was adamant he didnt want to do that, which is 
why Grosvenor subsequently recommended an annuity. I think this demonstrates Mr G 
understood what the adviser was telling him, was able to make his wishes and views clear, 
and didnt simply go along with what Grosvenor said. 
The advisers notes from the November 2018 meeting reiterate Mr Gs intention to stop work, 
pay off his mortgage, invest money in a new business in Italy where he and his family would 
live in his family home and rent out their UK property for around £700 per month, although 
Mrs G would initially continue with her job. The adviser noted he ran through the transfer 
comparator, but Mr G wasnt concerned about the difference in income, as he had no 
intention of retiring at 65. And that he did not wish to raise the difference in TFC via a loan. 
So Im satisfied the risks and consequences were explained to Mr G in a way he understood. 
Mr Gs circumstances are set out on the first page of the report, where its recorded hed 
already decided to retire from [his driving job] in January (2019) when hed be 55, take as 
much tax-free cash as possible and retire to Italy to set up the business and rent out his 
home in the UK. Mr Gs CMC says that Mr Gs wife and son were never intending to move 
with him to Italy and would remain in the UK property. But that isnt consistent with 
Grosvenors notes from the various discussions with Mr G at the time. And its advice was 
based on him receiving rental income from his property, as well as income from his 
business. I think the amount of times it was mentioned and the potential rental figure of £700 
suggests that was what Mr G said at the time, so Grosvenor was entitled to rely on it. 
I agree that taking TFC with no particular reason or need wouldnt be a valid objective. But I 
dont think its fair to say thats how Grosvenor framed its advice. Mr Gs six numbered 
objectives were set out in the suitability report as in the background section of this decision. 
Which were to retire at 55, take the maximum TFC, clear his mortgage, purchase an income 
with widows benefit, move to Italy to start a new business and rent his house out. These 
were set out in clear language and if they didnt reflect the reason Mr G had sought 
Grosvenors advice I think he wouldve pointed it out. Also on the front page is the sentence 
A secure income with a widows pension is very important to you, but you are happy to give 
up the rising income guarantee to obtain the higher tax free cash. Mr G says he wasnt in 
fact happy to give up the rising income. But I think on balance, obtaining the higher tax-free 
cash wouldve been of greater importance to him at that time. And I think that sentence on 
the front page is clear and given sufficient prominence, that Mr G would understand that this 
was the choice he had to make. It seems prior to approaching Grosvenor, Mr G had already decided to retire from his driving 
job at 55, as I understand he wasnt happy there anyway. He could have taken the benefits 
from his previous OPS at 55 without transferring. But while the income of £7,018 was above 
his minimum requirement, the TFC wouldve only been around £46,789 which wasnt enough 
to repay the outstanding mortgage, which he told Grosvenor was around £48,000. This 
suggests only a small shortfall, but when Mr G came to redeem he found it was actually 
around £52,000, leaving him significantly short. Mr Gs CMC says Mr G wouldve either 
dipped into his Italian savings, repaid most of the balance retaining a small mortgage into 
retirement. Or that Mr Gs wife could manage the mortgage herself as she was in full-time 
employment. But again, these options dont appear to match what Mr G told Grosvenor, 
which is that hed repay his mortgage in full, the property would be rented out, and his Italian 
savings, even if they were easily accessible from the UK as the CMC suggests, were to be 
used for his business and living expenses in Italy. 
I think Grosvenor did explore a number of options with Mr G to address the approximately 
£18,000 shortfall in TFC. Including whether hed be prepared to take on a personal loan to 
avoid accessing his Italian savings. Mr G told our investigator he was disappointed once the 
mortgage was repaid there wasnt much left from the higher amount of TFC he received by 
transferring. In the DB Transfer questionnaire the advisor recorded Mr G said Do not want 
to borrow money, whole point of clearing mortgage is to have no debt. I cant see Mr G ever 
told Grosvenor he was prepared to use his Italian savings towards his UK mortgage, as they 
were earmarked for his new business, and his living expenses in Italy. Based on the 
evidence available from the time of the advice, I dont think it seems likely hed have been 
comfortable with even a small mortgage once he retired, or for Mrs G to maintain the 
mortgage from her earnings, as he wanted to be debt-free. 
Ive already said, Mr G was able to make his wishes sufficiently clear so that Grosvenor 
didnt recommend any investment options, they understood he was very risk averse. Instead 
they researched into annuities which would provide a guaranteed income for life, and 
provide spouse benefit. The suitability letter dated 15 February 2019 explained the balance 
of Mr Gs transferred pension after taking the TFC available to purchase the annuity would 
be £189,845. The letter sets out that Mr G had little knowledge or experience of investing, 
and a low capacity for loss. 
Six annuity options were considered, and the one which Grosvenor recommended was level 
term, 5 year guarantee, joint annuity with a 66% widows income, payable monthly in 
arrears, which provided annual income of £7,764. Since their initial research, Mr Gs wifes 
smoker status increased the annual income to just over £8,194, which is significantly higher 
than Mr G would receive for about five years from the OPS, until payments caught up 
through the annual increases. Mr Gs CMC points out that Mr G was in good health with no 
reason to expect a reduced life expectancy. A five-year guarantee would only take him to 
age 60, whereas the OPS gave him a guaranteed income for life. Id like to reassure Mr G, 
his annuity will pay him an income for life, however long that may be. If he dies and is 
survived by his wife, shell receive 66% of his annuity for the rest of her life. The five-year 
guarantee with the annuity means that if Mr G should pass away within the first five years, 
the whole payment would be paid to Mrs G for the remainder of that 5-year period and would 
revert to 66% thereafter. There is no such guarantee with an OPS, so that if Mr G took 
benefits from his OPS, and then passed away shortly thereafter, his wifes pension would 
immediately reduce to the level of a spouse pension, usually 50%. And the income from the 
OPS wouldve started at the much lower amount of £7,018, the OPS provides no 
enhancement in relation to Mrs Gs smoker status. 
In general it is usually best to avoid giving up the guaranteed escalating benefits of a defined 
benefit OPS. But in Mr Gs particular circumstances I dont think the advice to transfer was unsuitable based on what was known at the time. Mr G has found the annuity income of 
£8,194 to be inadequate, and has started working again. But he has reduced his outgoings 
significantly by repaying his mortgage, so hes achieved his aim of being debt-free, and his 
property is likely to be an appreciating asset. While Mr G couldve taken benefits from his 
OPS at 55, his shortfall wouldve been greater if hed done so. As his annual income would 
be around £1,176 less and hed still be paying a mortgage, and/or hed have reduced 
savings.  
But that isnt the position Mr G intended to be in. According to what he reasonably thought 
and told Grosvenor at the time, his loss of employment income would be replaced by income 
from his new business and later from rent, even if Mrs G initially remained in the UK until 
their son finished his education. Mr G would have no mortgage or other debt, and no need to 
dip into his savings for any reason, other than what they were intended for - his new 
business and his living expenses in Italy.
Im sorry that injury and the pandemic combined to frustrate Mr Gs plans to establish his 
business, and set himself up for his retirement in Italy. But those things couldnt reasonably 
have been foreseen by Grosvenor at the time of the advice. Mr G was very clear his priority 
was maximising his income in the short rather than longer term. So I cant say Grosvenor 
has treated Mr G unfairly by recommending a solution which enabled him to release 
significantly higher TFC and provide a guaranteed income for life, which was intended to be 
enhanced until state pension age by rent and earnings from a new business. 
So taking everything into account, I dont uphold this complaint and make no award. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman