DRN-2349831
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim made against him on his car 
insurance policy.  
What happened
 In early December 2019, a third party claimed Mr F had hit the rear of his car at a 
roundabout. Aviva were unsuccessful in their attempts to contact Mr F, so they sent an 
investigator to interview him and get his side of things. 
Mr F told the investigator he had not been in an accident on the date in question or in that 
location, and he didnt know the other driver or car. Mr F couldnt recall where he was when 
the accident was said to have occurred. He also explained that he had been in a minor 
incident just before Christmas, where he says he collided with a railing which caused 
damage to his car. He said the incident didnt involve any other cars or people. 
The investigator took pictures of Mr Fs car and Aviva asked the other drivers representative 
to provide a description of the driver that hit him. Avivas engineer inspected photographs of 
both cars and concluded that the damage to them was consistent with the circumstances of 
the accident. Aviva also felt the description given matched Mr F. As such, they decided to 
settle the claim and accepted liability on behalf of Mr F. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this, and complains that:
he wasnt involved in the accident and he wasnt given the opportunity to defend 
himself,
Aviva didnt tell him they had accepted responsibility for the accident and recorded it 
as a fault claim against him, and
because the claim was recorded against him, his insurance premium increased 
significantly, and he lost six years of his no claims bonus.
Aviva didnt think their decision was wrong, but felt they should have communicated better 
with Mr F. They offered to compensate him between £100 and £150 for not letting him know 
the outcome of the claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably in settling the claim and he 
thought Avivas offer of compensation for the customer service it provided was fair. But Mr F 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator has reached.
 
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in 
question, thats something for the courts to decide. Rather, its to look at whether Avivas 
investigation was fair, and if the outcome was reasonable. 
Mr Fs policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says: 
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the 
policy the defence or settlement of any claim.
This means Aviva can handle a claim however they see fit. Even though it might mean Aviva 
make a decision Mr F doesnt agree with, they are still allowed to make such a decision. 
That said, we would still expect them to settle a claim in a fair and reasonable way, taking 
into account all the facts and evidence provided by both sides. I think they did, and I know 
this will be disappointing to Mr F, but Ill explain why.
When they were told about the incident, Aviva instructed investigators to interview Mr F and 
he provided a signed statement. So Im satisfied they gave him the opportunity to explain his 
side of things and defend himself. Mr F said he hadnt been involved in an accident on that 
date, but the investigator he spoke with highlighted that Mr F couldnt recall where he had 
been at the time the incident was said to have happened. 
Following this, Aviva arranged to have one of its engineers examine the photographs of both 
cars. The engineer concluded that the damage was consistent with what the third party had 
said happened in the accident. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to take its 
engineers conclusion into account when deciding whether to settle the claim.
I appreciate that Mr F says the damage to his car was caused when he collided with a railing 
a few weeks later. Mr F says his granddaughter was present at the time, and hes unhappy 
Aviva didnt ask her to give a statement. But I dont think it would have made a difference if 
they had done so. This is because, I dont think it would be enough to show that the accident 
with the other car didnt happen. And I think Aviva would have still made the decision they 
did even with this statement.
Mr F described his appearance to the investigator and their report included a photograph of 
him. The other driver also described the person he said hit his car, and Aviva thought it 
matched Mr Fs appearance. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to take the third 
parties description into consideration and reach the decision they did. 
In situations like this, insurers weigh up all the evidence to decide whether they have enough 
to defend against the claim. Im satisfied they considered all the evidence  including Mr Fs 
assertion he wasnt involved in the accident, and how he said the damage occurred to his 
car  in coming to the conclusion they have. The third partys representative advised Aviva 
that they were intending to start court proceedings. Aviva was entitled to consider whether to 
incur the costs of defending the claim or to settle it to minimise the costs of the claim. They 
said, given the engineer thought the damage to both cars was consistent with the third 
partys version of events, the third party provided a description that Aviva thought was 
consistent with Mr Fs appearance, and Mr F couldnt remember where he was on that day, 
they didnt think they could successfully defend the claim. And I dont think this was an 
unreasonable decision.
I understand Mr F feels strongly, and says he would have been willing to take the case to 
court. But as I mentioned earlier, Aviva can settle a claim on his behalf in the way they think 
is best. Ultimately, Im satisfied Aviva has carried out a fair investigation, and I cant say their 
decision to settle the claim made against Mr F was unreasonable. I dont think they need to 
reinstate the no claims discount they deducted. Putting things right
Mr F also says he didnt find out the claim was settled against him until he came to renew his 
policy. Aviva acknowledges that their communication couldve been better, and they offered 
to compensate him. I know Mr F didnt accept this previously, but I think £150 is fair 
compensation for the distress he would have felt when he found out.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited already agreed 
to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman