DRN-3282731
The complaint
Ms D complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) made errors 
collecting her mortgage payments and failed to advise her of the arrears on her mortgage 
account. 
What happened
Ms D says following her redundancy she received support from the Department of Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to assist with her monthly mortgage payments. Ms D says she discovered 
in June 2021 that Mays 2021 and Junes 2021 payments from DWP hadnt been credited to 
her mortgage account. In addition, BM had failed to collect the correct monthly direct debit. 
Ms D says she instructed BM in April 2021 to only collect the top up amount required of 
around £18 per month, when in fact in June 2021 it attempted to collect the full mortgage 
payment. Ms D says she was never informed of the missed payments from the DWP or the 
arrears on her mortgage, and no one at BM was able to inform her what had happened to 
those payments. Ms D say she has spent a considerable amount of time trying to deal with 
this matter and while BM have now apologised and paid her £200 for the inconvenience 
caused, this compensation is considerably less than she was looking for, given the upset this 
has caused. 
BM says it accepts it should have informed Ms D of the missed mortgage payments and it 
made an error when it only collected the top up direct debit in May 2021 when it should have 
been continued until further notice. BM says it placed a hold on Ms Ds mortgage account to 
get a better understanding why the DWP payments hadnt been received and while this was 
intended to assist Ms D, it accepts this contributed to the reasons why she had issues 
contacting them about the missed payments. BM says in recognition of this, although the 
DWP failed to provide the correct account details to allocate the payments in May and June 
2021, which is why they were returned, it has now amended Ms Ds credit file and backdated 
her mortgage payments accordingly. BM says it has paid Ms D £200 for the inconvenience it 
has caused. 
Ms D wasnt happy with BMs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt BM wasnt at fault for returning the payments from DWP as no mortgage 
account number had been provided. The investigator says he accepts that BM made some 
mistakes here, but these had been corrected without any financial loss to Ms D, and the 
amount of compensation paid was fair in the circumstances.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Ds redundancy and this must have been a stressful and difficult 
time for her, and I can understand it would have been upsetting for her to learn her mortgage 
payments hadnt been received as expected. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
the compensation payment BM have paid here, sufficiently covers the trouble and upset Ms 
D has experienced over this matter. 
The first thing to says is that BM have admitted it has made some mistakes here, firstly it 
should have advised Ms D her mortgage payments were in arrears for May and June 2021 
and secondly it incorrectly set up the direct debit for the top up amount of around £18 per 
month for one month only, when it should have been until further notice. BM have also 
explained it did temporarily place a hold on Ms Ds mortgage account while it tried to 
establish why there was an inconsistency in the payments it was receiving from the DWP. 
BM have explained while it did this to assist Ms D, this may have contributed to the 
difficulties she had when contacting them. 
Ms D has now received an apology from BM, and it has agreed to backdate the payments 
received from DWP in July 2021, that it originally returned in May and June 2021. I have 
been provided evidence to show the missed payments were correctly credited to Ms Ds 
mortgage account on 8 July 2021, so I am satisfied Ms Ds mortgage account was brought 
up to date at that time.
That said, BM have provided evidence to show that these payments were originally sent by 
DWP without any mortgage account number, so I cant say BM were at fault when it returned 
them. Afterall BM would receive a considerable number of payments every day, and its 
unreasonable to expect them to be able to allocate such payments correctly if the account 
details arent provided. Despite this BM have agreed to correct Ms Ds credit file for May and 
June 2021 so there is no impact on her credit file as a result. I understand BM have paid Ms 
D a compensation payment of £200 for the mistakes it made regarding the direct debit 
collection and for failing to inform her of the arrears on her mortgage.
Ms D says that the amount offered doesnt adequately cover the trouble and upset she 
experienced over this matter, and the time she spent dealing with this and is looking for a 
substantial compensation award. 
While I accept Ms D has been inconvenienced here, its fair to say that much of the issues 
she faced, lie with the payments from the DWP not having the full account details and as I 
have mentioned earlier, BM cant be held responsible for that. BM have accepted they made 
a mistake in setting up Ms Ds direct debit and should have informed her that the mortgage 
payments had fallen behind and have apologised, corrected the direct debit and amended 
her credit file as I would expect.  
Ms D feels BM havent dealt with matters quickly enough, but from what I can see it issued a 
letter to Ms D explaining it had taken corrective action. This was issued within a few weeks 
of her initial complaint and even though Ms D says there was a delay in its receipt, the letter 
I have seen was addressed correctly so I cant hold BM responsible for any postal delays 
that may have happened.
Although Ms D may not agree, its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when 
mistakes like this happen, but we would expect an apology to be made and an appropriate 
level of compensation paid and I am satisfied thats what happened here.While Ms D will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of BM here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman