DRN-2848037
Complaint
Ms J says Black Horse Limited mis-sold her a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy 
with two loans in the 2000s. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to BHL.
Background
The fact PPI was mis-sold isnt disputed, but Ms J questions whether the redress she 
received from BHL has been calculated correctly.
I see that one of our adjudicators provided Ms J with a view about this complaint. They said 
that they didnt think we should uphold the complaint because the redress seems to have 
been calculated correctly. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint.
These sales relate to PPI policies which were sold with two loans in 2003 and 2005. The 
policy numbers end in 3169 and 3048 respectively.
 
I can understand why Ms J finds it difficult to remember what happened from such a long 
time ago and this seems to be reflected in the limited information shes been able to provide 
on the complaint forms we asked her to fill out. 
BHL sent Ms J a letter in August 2020 saying it would refund her £2,246,68. I think its fairly 
clear on that letter that this redress relates only to the account ending in 3848. It adds up 
what she paid for the PPI on this loan and adds interest in a way that seems compatible with 
the approach we expect from businesses. So, to be clear, I think this is calculated correctly.
For the other loan listed on the same letter (ending 3169), I think its also very clear that BHL 
says no redress is due for this. Thats because it says, our records indicate that the PPI 
policy was cancelled before any PPI payments were made, or within the 30-day cancellation 
notice period and any payments you did make were refunded at the time of cancellation. As 
such, no refund of premiums is due. In short  Ms J never paid for any PPI on this loan, 
even if PPI was initially added.
I think our adjudicator did attempt to explain this further although maybe he could have been 
clearer  Ms J isnt due any money back for this loan PPI.
Nevertheless, the adjudicator did point out that hed carefully read through the data entries 
relating to the loan (ending 3169) and this did show no PPI was ever paid. Basically the PPI 
was added, but then removed.
Id like to place on record that I do acknowledge that Ms J honestly and genuinely suspects 
this second calculation lacks clarity. Im also very sorry to hear shes had a hard time 
recently. However, her complaint points lack any corroborating evidence and she isnt able 
to show she did pay for any PPI with this loan (ending 3169). And because BHL says she 
didnt  and this is confirmed by the data Ive seen  Im not upholding her complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms J, although I hope I have least explained that the evidence 
does clearly show she was only ever due redress for the loan (ending 3048). She isnt due 
anything more back.
Final decision
I do not uphold Ms Js complaint.
I do not direct Black Horse Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman