DRN-4154423
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd (Sanlam) gave him unsuitable advice 
on his pension. 
What happened
Mr R had a personal pension. He met with Sanlam in June 2011 to discuss his pension 
options. Mr R said that Sanlam contacted him first. Sanlam said he contacted it first.
At the time of the advice, a fact find dated 6 June 2011 recorded the following about Mr R:
- He didnt save on a regular basis and had no savings. 
- He had no investments. But owned a house with an interest only mortgage.
- He wanted £20K each year in retirement, from age 60/65. He had a pension fund of 
£65K.
- He was aged 50 and in good health. And was married with two children.
- He was employed and had a basic salary of £30K each year and a total income of 
£40K each year
- He had net disposable income of £1,000 each month after his essential expenditure 
had been allowed for.
In response to the question: Do you expect your income or expenditure to change 
significantly in the foreseeable future?, the fact find contained a handwritten note which 
said: If business venture succeeds.
A further handwritten note on the fact find stated that thered been a discussion about the 
risks of unquoted shares. And that Sanlam had explained that it could advise but not 
transact in the unquoted shares.
Mr R signed his agreement that Sanlam wasnt liable for any investments in unquoted 
shares on 6 June 2011. 
Sanlam sent Mr R its suitability letter dated 20 June 2011. This recorded his objective as: to 
raise capital to allow you to participate in a share issue of an unquoted company that you 
have recently started working for. The letter recommended that Mr R moved his pension 
funds into a SIPP with provider A. It said that 50% of the pension fund would then be used to 
purchase unquoted shares of the employer Mr R worked for in an upcoming share issue. 
Sanlam said that although itd discussed this investment with Mr R, along with the risks 
involved, it wouldnt arrange the transaction, or accept any future liability for it. Sanlam did 
recommend how the remaining funds be invested. 
In the suitability letter, Sanlam said it had chosen the SIPP with provider A as it was the only 
provider that allowed up to 50% of the SIPP portfolio to be invested in unquoted shares, in 
line with Mr Rs primary objective. It also said that the SIPP with provider A would be more 
expensive than other options. But noted that Mr R was happy to proceed as it allowed him to 
purchase the unquoted shares. 
I understand that the SIPP with provider A failed. So Mr R put in a claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). On 29 December 2021, FSCS wrote to Mr R to tell 
him it couldnt accept his claim until it was satisfied that hed first exhausted any right to 
claim against any of the connected firms that were still trading. As hed been advised by 
Sanlam to transfer his existing pension into the failed SIPP, it said he should contact Sanlam 
about his claim first.
Mr R complained to Sanlam on 29 December 2021 about the advice to transfer his existing 
pension into the SIPP with provider A. And the subsequent investments that were made.
Sanlam issued its final response to the complaint on 2 February 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that its 6 June 2011 fact find and its 20 June 2011 suitability 
letter showed that it had discussed the risks of purchasing the unquoted shares. And that it 
wouldnt accept any future liability of any such action. It said that they also showed that 
alternative options to finance the purchase of the unquoted shares had been considered. 
Sanlam said the documents showed that Mr Rs first objective was to purchase the unquoted 
shares. And that hed signed the last page of the fact find to confirm that hed been informed 
of the risks involved with unquoted shares and that Sanlam wasnt liable for any investment 
in them.
Unhappy with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service on 2 February 2022. 
He felt that Sanlam hadnt carried out the appropriate due diligence when the investment 
was made. And wanted to be put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the 
unsuitable advice. 
Our investigator issued his first view on the complaint on 19 July 2022. He didnt think it 
should be upheld. He said that Sanlam had agreed that despite the historical nature of the 
complaint, he was able to assess the merits of the case. Our investigator felt that Sanlam 
had been clear that it had no responsibility for the unquoted shares investment. And that it 
had recommended a reasonable investment for the remainder of the pension fund, given Mr 
Rs Attitude to Risk (ATR) and his intention to invest in the unquoted shares. He also felt that 
Sanlam couldnt reasonably be held responsible for the collapse of the SIPP with provider A. 
Mr R shared our investigators view with the FSCS. It said that this service had yet to 
address the complaint in full as we hadnt considered the original advice for Mr R to switch 
from his existing pension provider to the SIPP with provider A. 
Our investigator therefore revisited the complaint. He asked Mr R how Sanlam had 
approached him. And if he remembered being told anything verbally at the June 2011 
meeting about the risks of investing in unlisted shares. He also asked him how keen hed 
been at the time to make the investment in the unlisted shares. 
Mr R said that Sanlam had approached him for an annual review. And that hed discussed 
some of his goals regarding the unlisted shares, which he said he described as a business 
opportunity with the employer he was about to start work for. Mr R said he didn't have the 
funds to go ahead with the opportunity. But that Sanlam had said the funds were available in 
his existing pension. Mr R said that he didnt think Sanlam had done enough to warn him 
verbally about the dangers and risks associated with the unquoted investment. And said he 
wouldnt have invested but for the advice given. 
Our investigator also told Sanlam he felt hed not looked at the advice to transfer in sufficient detail. And asked it for any information it had on Mr Rs original pension plan that was 
transferred to the SIPP with provider A. 
Sanlam questioned why our investigator was now looking at the advice to transfer. It felt that 
Mr Rs initial complaint was very specific about being on the lack of due diligence on the 
investment made. Our investigator said it was clear he needed to consider the root cause of 
the complaint, which he felt began with the advice to transfer and whether it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr R.
Sanlam provided a 13 June 2011 letter it had sent to Mr R with the transfer form. 
Our investigator issued an updated view on 20 December 2022. He now felt the complaint 
should be upheld. He felt that Sanlam hadnt correctly followed the process for Insistent 
Clients. He said this was because although the insistent clients guidelines stated that 
Sanlam needed to obtain a statement from Mr R to acknowledge in his own words that, 
whilst a personal recommendation had been given, Sanlam had been clear it wouldnt 
facilitate the unquoted share purchase transaction, the statement signed by Mr R hadnt 
done this. He also felt that Sanlam hadnt expressly suggested that the intended transaction 
wasnt in line with its recommendations. So our investigator didnt consider that Mr R was an 
insistent client. 
Our investigator felt that Sanlam had recommended the SIPP with provider A because it 
could facilitate the required level of unquoted share purchase. And that this created a high 
level of risk for Mr R. He felt the SIPP with provider A had only been used for Mr R to make 
an investment which he didnt think he wouldve made but for Sanlams actions. Therefore 
he felt the recommendation had been unsuitable. He also felt that there was nothing in the 
documentation which showed that Mr R had been made aware of the benefits of staying with 
his existing provider. And that he wouldve stayed with his existing provider but for the 
unsuitable advice.
Our investigator recommended that Sanlam put Mr R back as closely as possible into the 
position he would probably now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Sanlam didnt agree with our investigator. It made the following points:
- It felt that his first view from July 2022 had already looked at the entire justification for 
transfer, the use of the SIPP with provider A, and the ultimate investments. 
- It didnt agree that it had classified Mr R as an insistent client. In any event, it said 
that the guidance it felt our investigator had relied on (COBS 9.5A Additional 
guidance for firms with insistent clients) was only published in January 2018. It said 
that apart from a 2016 factsheet, it wasnt aware of anything material which preceded 
this. Therefore it didnt believe insistent client rules applied at the time of the advice. 
- It said that even if the rules had applied, two of the three conditions for an insistent 
client wouldnt have been met. This was because it had provided no advice on the 
funds used to purchase the unquoted shares, nor did it give a recommendation on 
those monies. Therefore Mr R couldnt have chosen to enter a transaction which was 
different from that recommended, as Sanlam hadnt made a recommendation on 
those funds. It had also been clear that it wouldnt facilitate the transaction for Mr R. 
- As the insistent client rules hadnt applied, it felt that the regulators expectations and 
requirements at the time of the advice should be considered. It said it had been clear 
in its guidance about the risks involved. It said that whilst it hadnt provided advice on 
the unquoted shares, it had considered alternative methods of financing them. And that it had recommended a lower-risk investment than Mr Rs ATR suggested on the 
50% of the fund it had provided advice on to offset the high risk of the unquoted 
shares Mr R had decided to buy.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 May 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that Sanlam 
didnt correctly follow the process for Insistent Clients. I agree with Sanlam that it didnt 
classify Mr R as one, nor could it have, as such classification didnt exist at the time of the 
advice. And while I agree with our investigator that Sanlam didnt expressly state in the 
suitability letter that the intended transaction wasnt in line with its recommendations, Im not 
persuaded that it was asked to advise on the 50% Mr R invested in unquoted shares. 
I also agree with our investigator that Sanlam only recommended the SIPP with provider A 
because it could facilitate the required level of unquoted share purchase. But I dont agree 
that this means Sanlam was responsible for the high level of risk Mr R took on when he 
invested in the unquoted shares. I also dont agree with our investigator that Mr R only 
transferred to provider A and invested in the unquoted shares because of unsuitable advice. 
Instead, Im persuaded that Mr R always intended to make the unquoted share investment, 
regardless of Sanlams actions. 
I know my provisional decision will be extremely disappointing for Mr R. Ill explain the 
reasons for it. 
Before I start, Ill address Sanlams query about our investigator considering the advice 
aspect of this complaint, after hed considered whether appropriate due diligence on the 
investment had been carried out. I can see that our investigator initially asked Sanlam for its 
permission for this service to consider: a complaint regarding the suitability of the 
recommended policy and the further issue regarding the suitability of the unlisted shares. 
Sanlam gave this service permission to look into the merits of the complaint. 
I consider that our investigators request effectively covered the advice aspect. I say this 
because it asked for permission to consider both the suitability of the SIPP and of the 
unquoted shares. Therefore Ive considered the merits of this complaint. However, if Sanlam 
would like to question this point further it can do so.
The advice was over ten years ago, so its difficult for anyone to remember exactly what 
happened at the time. Mr Rs recollection is that Sanlam made a marketing call to him in 
2011 to offer him a review of his pension. But Sanlam think that Mr R approached it to look 
for support in purchasing unquoted shares in his new employer.
I first considered the insistent client points made by our investigator and by Sanlam.
Why I dont consider that Sanlam tried to treat Mr R as an insistent client
Consumers sometimes go against what a business recommends and want the business to 
conduct the transaction against their advice. The industry and the regulator sometimes call 
these consumers insistent clients. 
Our investigator felt, in his second view, that Sanlam hadnt correctly followed the process for insistent clients. He felt Sanlam hadnt obtained a statement from Mr R which 
acknowledged, in his own words, that he was going against Sanlams recommendation if he 
wanted to proceed with the purchase of the unquoted shares. 
Our investigator also felt that Sanlam hadnt expressly suggested that the unquoted share 
transaction wasnt in line with its recommendations.
Sanlam didnt agree that it had classified Mr R as an insistent client. It also said that the 
regulatory guidance on this had been published in January 2018, long after the advice this 
complaint is about. So it didnt believe the insistent client guidance applied at the time of the 
advice. 
I agree with Sanlam that there was no regulatory guidance on insistent clients until the 2015 
pension reforms. It was only sometime after this, that the regulator defined an insistent client 
as:
A client who has received a personal recommendation (advice) from the business;
Who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the 
business; and
Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
And set out guidance for businesses when dealing with an insistent client. 
Sanlam said that even if the insistent client guidance had applied, the second and third 
definitions above wouldnt have been met. This was because it said it hadnt provided any 
advice or recommendation on the funds used to purchase the unquoted shares, which 
meant it wasnt possible for Mr R to have chosen to enter a transaction which was different 
from that recommended, as there was no recommendation. Sanlam also said it had been 
clear that it wouldnt facilitate the transaction. 
I agree with our investigator that Sanlam didnt expressly suggest that the unquoted share 
purchase wasnt in line with its recommendations. But I dont agree that it needed to do so. I 
consider that Sanlam effectively only made recommendations on the 50% of the fund that Mr 
R hadnt already decided how to invest. And it was clear that it had no responsibility for the 
unquoted shares investment.
Im persuaded that Mr R had decided to commit to the business opportunity of the 
unquoted share investment before he met with Sanlam. And that it therefore needed to 
recommend something like the SIPP with provider A to enable Mr R to meet his primary 
objective of investing 50% in the unquoted shares. I also consider that any other adviser Mr 
R had approached wouldve followed a similar course of action under the circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Mr R considers that Sanlam didnt do enough to warn him about the 
dangers and risks associated with the unquoted investment. And that he feels he wouldnt 
have invested but for the advice given. But I dont agree. 
On 6 June 2011, Mr R signed his agreement that thered been a discussion with Sanlam 
about the risks of unquoted shares. And he also signed to say he agreed that Sanlam 
wouldnt be liable for any investments in unquoted shares.
The suitability letter included a section on the Risks of Purchasing Unquoted Shares. This 
made the following points, amongst others:There is a greater risk associated with unquoted share investments, as they are not readily 
realisable. You may have difficulty in selling the shares at a reasonable price. In some 
circumstances it may be difficult to sell the shares due to market conditions. Accordingly, you 
should carefully consider whether such investments are suitable for you in the light of your 
personal circumstances.
The proposed investment represents a significant proportion of your pension assets and 
therefore your future pension benefits may be jeopardised.
At the outset of any proposed unquoted share purchase or acquisition you will incur legal 
and professional charges, irrespective of whether the proposed purchase is completed. 
Professional costs for valuing unquoted shares can be high, reflecting the specialist nature 
of the valuation and the associated risks.
Im satisfied that Sanlam was clear that it wouldn't provide advice or accept liability for the 
unquoted shares. It explained the risks and did all it could to distance itself from the 
investment, which it clearly didnt recommend. Mr R signed the handwritten note about this, 
indicating he understood Sanlams position, but wanted to proceed anyway. So I cant fairly 
agree with Mr R that Sanlam didnt do enough to warn him about the risks surrounding the 
unquoted investment. And I dont agree that Mr R wouldnt have invested but for the advice. 
I say this because the evidence shows that Mr R wanted £20K each year in retirement, but 
this was heavily dependent on the success of his investment in the unquoted shares. The 
evidence shows that Mr R told Sanlam that he expected his income to change significantly in 
the foreseeable future if the: business venture succeeds. And because the suitability letter 
recorded Mr Rs objective as: to raise capital to allow you to participate in a share issue of 
an unquoted company that you have recently started working for. So Im of the view that Mr 
R was determined to invest in the unquoted shares, regardless of which adviser he used.
Looking at the 20 June 2011 suitability letter, I can see that Sanlam stated: 
50% of your pension fund will be utilised to purchase unquoted shares of [company name] in 
an upcoming share issue. Although this has been discussed with Sanlam along with the 
risks involved, Sanlam will not be arranging this transaction and will not accept any future 
liability of the action.
So I agree that Sanlam was clear that it wouldnt arrange the unquoted share transaction. 
As insistent client guidance wasnt in force at the time of the advice, I cant reasonably agree 
with our investigator that Sanlam failed to follow the process for insistent clients.
I also agree with Sanlam, that as there was no guidance on insistent clients at the time of the 
advice, we should instead consider what the regulators expectations and requirements for 
advice were. 
Did Sanlams advice meet the regulatory requirements at the time?
Sanlam said it had been clear in its guidance about the risks involved in the unquoted 
shares. It said that whilst it hadnt provided advice on them, it had considered alternative 
methods of financing them. And recommended a product that would allow Mr R to achieve 
his primary objective. It also said that it had recommended a lower-risk investment than Mr 
Rs ATR suggested on the 50% of the fund it had provided advice on to offset the high risk of 
the unquoted shares Mr R had decided to buy.
The current rules have the overall principle of making a suitable recommendation. To do so, a business needs to get enough information from the customer to be able to ensure:
The recommendation meets their objectives
Theyre able to bear any related investment risk and
They understand the risks involved in the transaction
The rules also require a business to get information about the customers objectives and 
financial situation. And state that if a business doesnt obtain enough information to assess 
suitability, it mustnt make a recommendation. 
A business is also required to demonstrate that its advice is suitable by issuing a suitability 
letter or report. And had to make a link between the consumers situation and the product 
recommended, by explaining how the product meets their objectives.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows that Sanlams advice did meet the regulatory 
requirements at the time. And were clear that it wouldnt advise on the purchase of unquoted 
shares.
I say this because the notes from the 6 June 2011 planning meeting and the suitability letter 
made it clear that Mr R wanted to improve his level of income in retirement. And that he was 
prepared to take a degree of risk to achieve this. His ATR was assessed. And Sanlam made 
an investment recommendation on the 50% of the fund that would be left over after Mr R had 
made the unquoted share invested he wanted. It reduced the risk of this recommendation to 
mitigate the higher risk Mr R had decided to take on with the other 50% of the fund. 
The documents show that Mr R discussed the potential investment in unquoted shares from 
the start. And that investing in them was his main priority. Sanlam made it clear that this was 
high risk and that it wanted to distance itself from any such investment. Mr R agreed to 
Sanlam removing itself from any responsibility relating to his intended unquoted share 
purchase when he signed a disclaimer to that effect on 6 June 2011.
Overall, Im satisfied that Sanlams recommendations were suitable for Mr R at the time of 
the advice, given his primary objective.
I next considered if Sanlam wouldve recommended the SIPP with provider A if Mr R hadnt 
intended to buy the unquoted shares.
Would Sanlam have recommended the SIPP provider it did without Mr Rs requirement for 
the unquoted shares?
Our investigator felt that Sanlams recommendation of the SIPP with provider A created a 
high level of risk for Mr R. So he felt the recommendation had been unsuitable. He also felt 
that there was nothing in the documentation to show that Mr R had been made aware of the 
benefits of staying with his existing provider, which he felt he wouldve done but for the 
unsuitable advice.
As I noted earlier, Im persuaded that Mr R always intended to make the unquoted share 
investment, regardless of Sanlams actions. And while I agree with our investigator that there 
was nothing in the documentation which showed that Mr R had been made aware of the 
benefits of staying with his existing provider, Im satisfied that this was because Mr R met 
with Sanlam with the intention of investing in the unquoted shares, and he couldnt do that 
with his existing provider. I can see that this was noted in the suitability letter.The suitability letter said that the recommended SIPP was more expensive than some other 
options. And that it didnt meet stakeholder standards. It was noted that this had been 
discussed with Mr R. 
The letter also said that the recommended SIPP would allow for a wide range of investment 
classes, which made it more appropriate for Mr R given his wish to purchase unquoted 
shares. And that when Sanlam had reviewed Mr Rs objectives it had noted that the main 
criteria when researching appropriate providers was the level of unquoted shares that could 
be held in the SIPP portfolio.
It said that the SIPP with provider A was the only one which allowed up to 50% of the SIPP 
portfolio be invested within unquoted shares. And that most providers only allowed a 
maximum of between 10% and 30% invested in unquoted shares.
The suitability letter recorded that Mr R was happy to move to a SIPP with provider A despite 
the higher charges, as it would allow him to buy unquoted shares.
From what Ive seen, Mr Rs primary objective led to the recommendation to move to a SIPP 
with provider A. Sanlam explained issues with the SIPP to Mr R, such as the high charges, 
so ordinarily I wouldnt have expected it to recommend such a product. 
Im not persuaded that Sanlam wouldve recommended a SIPP at all if Mr R hadnt wanted 
to buy the specific unquoted shares. I say this because Sanlam clearly didnt want to be 
associated with the purchase of the unquoted shares. So it asked Mr R to sign a statement 
which absolved it of any responsibility for that purchase. 
Sanlam did make an investment recommendation for the remaining funds. This was based 
on Mr Rs ATR, but allowed for his decision to invest 50% of his pension funds in the 
unquoted shares. I consider that Sanlam couldve made an equally reasonable investment 
recommendation within Mr Rs existing pension, but for Mr Rs desire to make the unquoted 
share investment, which wasnt possible in his existing arrangement. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Sanlam made the SIPP recommendation simply because it was the 
only provider that could accommodate Mr Rs primary objective. So I dont consider that the 
recommendation was unsuitable under the circumstances.
Having reviewed the complaint, I havent found that Sanlam did anything wrong. Therefore I 
cant reasonably hold it responsible for the collapse of the SIPP with provider A. And I dont 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
Sanlam had nothing further to add.
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman