DRN-3339359
The complaint
Mr L complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has unfairly recorded a 
fault claim against his policy  when an uninsured third party crashed into his vehicle, while 
it was parked and unattended. Hes said its unfair hes being held at fault for the incident, 
meaning his future premiums will increase and hell lose his No Claim Bonus (NCB).  
What happened
In March 2021 a third party hit Mr Ls parked vehicle while it was parked and fled the scene. 
He had a comprehensive motor policy with Haven, so he phoned the insurer to report the 
incident. Haven told Mr L the third-party driver was uninsured, so there wasnt another 
insurer it could pursue  but he did have the option of claiming on his own cover. Mr L 
initially wanted to try and recover his losses through The Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB), but 
after discussing it with them decided to claim on his own policy.
Haven assessed Mr Ls vehicle as a total loss and paid out what it deemed to be the cars 
market value (immediately prior to the incident) in settlement of the claim. That involved 
Haven settling the finance agreement on the vehicle and paying the remainder to Mr L.
Following this Mr L complained the claim had been recorded on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database as a fault claim against him. Haven responded to say it 
empathised with his position, but it considered the entry on the database was correct. Mr L 
wasnt happy with the explanation from the insurer, and so referred his complaint to our 
service for review.
An investigator here reviewed everything and thought Haven had acted fairly. He 
acknowledged reference to fault wasnt helpful language in the context of this claim, as it 
was clear Mr L wasnt responsible for the incident. But, in the investigators view, Haven had 
correctly recorded the claim against his policy on the CUE database  as it hadnt been able 
to recover its losses. Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint  and Ill explain why. 
But firstly I want to acknowledge the frustrating situation Mr L found himself in. Theres no 
doubt Mr L wasnt responsible for what happened, and it was very unlucky his car was hit by 
an uninsured driver. I also totally appreciate why he feels having to claim on his own policy 
will unfairly affect his future premiums. But it's exactly this kind of unforeseen event that 
insurance is designed to protect against. Mr Ls policy has, thankfully, meant Haven stepped 
in to cover the outstanding finance on the vehicle and pay him the remainder of the 
settlement amount. Otherwise hed have had to cover the loss himself or pursue the third-
party individual directly through legal channels.
As Haven dealt with the claim, it was obliged to report that accurately to CUE. For context, 
CUE is a central database of incidents reported to insurance companies. The purpose of the 
database is to help identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. If an insurer is signed up to 
CUE, itll make a record of any incident its made aware of  whether it leads to a claim or 
not. Haven was bound to do that in this case under the terms of CUE. The circumstances 
involved here are noted on the database, so itll be clear to future insurers what gave rise to 
the claim. But I cant hold Haven responsible for how other insurers choose to rate their 
policies based on that information.
I appreciate Mr L believes the use of fault in the CUE record may cause insurers to view 
him as a risky or irresponsible driver. But reference to it being a fault claim is an industry 
term that merely indicates which partys policy/insurer has covered the claim. Sometimes the 
person with a fault claim recorded on CUE will have been responsible for causing damage, 
other times not  and details of the incident on the entry itself will indicate what happened. 
Haven told Mr L it recorded the claim that way because it wasnt able to recover its losses 
from another party  and, for reasons given above, I find that the insurer treated him fairly 
when doing so. I also think Haven was clear that proceeding with the claim meant it would 
be reported externally as a fault claim on Mr Ls policy, but that he shouldnt feel blamed by 
the use of that terminology. So, overall, I consider Haven has provided a satisfactory 
explanation for what it did and acted reasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about the way Haven Insurance 
Company Limited has recorded a claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman