DRN-3929752
Complaint
Mrs L has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs L bought a solar panel system the system for her home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs L alleges that the supplier 
misled Mrs L into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mrs Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mrs L signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mrs L says she was led to believe. So, the 
investigator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs L disagreed. She said (through her representatives) that she was not provided with 
estimated returns document relied on by our investigator, so she did not have the 
opportunity to review it and question what she was being told. The representative reiterated 
that she was verbally told the system would be self-funding and she bought the system on 
that basis. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs L could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs L and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
As part of my consideration of this case, Ive looked at the sales contract and the estimated 
returns document. Each of these documents are only a page long and have been signed by 
Mrs L on the same day as the credit agreement.  So Im satisfied that she saw and agreed to 
these documents during the sale. 
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
which is £6,995 and notes that the consumer will use finance to fund the purchase. 
The consumer was also given an estimated returns document which set out the annual 
benefit amount the consumer can expect to receive from the system. 
These figures are set out clearly, directly above where Mrs L signed each document, so, I 
think its likely that she saw them. Both of these documents are the suppliers own forms so, 
I think its likely that these documents are reliable evidence of the discussions Mrs L had with 
the supplier. 
So to me it looks like the supplier made it clear that the system cost £6,995 and that Mrs Ls 
maximum year one benefit was £453.02 and that she was going to be using finance to fund 
the purchase of the system. I dont think its likely Mrs L would have agreed to buy the 
system without knowing the cost of the system  and similarly I think its unlikely she signed 
a loan agreement without knowing the term of the loan. And her loan agreement shows that 
she took out a 10-year loan to fund the purchase of the system. 
Of course, separately, the supplier also arranged for Mrs L to sign Ikanos credit agreement. 
The agreement shows that she agreed to a 10-year loan with monthly payments of £94.32. 
I think its apparent that to repay a loan for £6,995 over 10 years, Mrs L would be required to 
repay at least £695 annually. And of course, with interest (which was set out in the loan 
agreement), it would likely be significantly more than that. I also think its clear that a 
maximum year one benefit amount of £453.02 would not be sufficient to cover the minimum 
annual cost of the loan. 
Furthermore, her credit agreement shows that her monthly payment was £94.32. I also think 
its apparent that 12 monthly payments of £94.32 is far more than the maximum year one 
benefit of £453.02. 
I have to bear in mind that it doesnt look like Mrs L was given an array of documents with 
facts and figures for her to wade through. The estimated returns are set out on one page and 
the cost is set out both on the suppliers contract which is one page and then again on the 
credit agreement. Each document has been signed by Mrs L on the same day. So, I think 
these documents are a good reflection of the discussions she had with the supplier and the 
information she was given on the day of the sale. 
Im therefore satisfied, that its more likely that the costs associated with the loan and the 
estimated benefits were made clear to Mrs L  and these clearly show that the system would 
not be self-funding. The estimated year one benefits provided by the system are significantly 
lower than the amount needed to meet the repayments on the loan  and I think this was 
made clear to Mrs L.   
If Mrs L had been told the system would be self-funding, I would have expected her to have 
questioned how the shortfall would likely have been made up and Ive seen no evidence that 
she did. So, I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mrs Ls 
understanding, at that time. I understand her representative says she didnt retain copy of 
the estimated returns and she was not provided with these figures so she couldnt have 
questioned what she was being told. But as Ive said above, this document was signed by 
her on the day of sale, so Im satisfied that it was shown to her and discussed on the day. 
While Ive carefully considered Mrs Ls testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman