DRN-2815749
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) moved to an overdraft pricing structure 
which charged him a daily fee when he used the facility. He says that this change was unfair.
Background
In August 2017, Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr B complained to Lloyds he calculated the interest on his overdraft to 
be around 40%, which was significantly higher than what he was paying before. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it was entitled to change its pricing structure 
and while this meant some customers might end up paying more, it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. It also said that its collections department did help    
Mr B when his account ran into difficulties. Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr B is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair and substantial increase in 
Lloyds overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it implemented these changes unfairly. For 
example, in circumstances where a customer was in financial difficulty and a failure to take 
steps to mitigate the effects of the proposed changes and compounded their difficulties. So 
Ive considered whether Lloyds treated Mr B fairly and reasonably when it implemented 
these changes on his overdraft. 
I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that he might 
have been experiencing financial difficulty at the time of the change to the pricing structure. I 
accept that Mr B had a large overdraft which he was using regularly. But it is clear that 
significant funds were going into the account which regularly brought it into credit. So I dont 
think that Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr B may have been struggling financially. And 
as the full balance was regularly being repaid within a reasonable period of time, I cant 
reasonably reach the conclusion that the overdraft was unaffordable for him, at this time, 
either.
Id also add that when Mr B did eventually run into difficulties further down the line, Lloyds 
froze the interest and charges on the account and placed him on a plan, which would allow 
him to repay what he owed over the course of a year. So, in these circumstances, I do think 
its the case that Lloyds didnt treat Mr B unfairly.
Ive also seen what Mr B has said about not offering him a loan at the time it changed the 
pricing structure. But he wouldnt have been able to use a loan in the same way that he used 
his overdraft. And I also think that Mr B had the option of applying for a loan or overdraft 
elsewhere  at least at the time he was notified of the upcoming changes - on terms which 
he might have found more preferable should he have wished to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds implemented these 
changes in a way that treated Mr B unfairly. And as the terms and conditions permitted 
Lloyds to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman