DRN-4457434
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made by a well-
known manufacturer and first registered in 2007. One of its features was active suspension. 
In 2015, Mr J acquired the vehicle. 
For the year from 10 January 2022, Mr J had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy 
with Admiral. Any claim for damage was subject to an excess of £350.00. 
Mr J had 16 years no claims bonus (NCB) which was protected. The total cost for the 
year was about £550.00. 
On 10 October 2022, the vehicle passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 
120,000.
Unfortunately, in late October 2022, Mr J reported to Admiral that hed reversed into another 
vehicle. Admiral recorded that Mr Js vehicle remained driveable. Admiral instructed a 
repairer, but it couldnt book the vehicle in for repairs straight away.
In mid- November 2022, Mr J told Admiral that his vehicle wasnt safe to drive, because the 
accident had damaged the active suspension.
In mid-December 2022, the repairer took possession of Mr Js vehicle and provided a 
courtesy car to him.
The repairer confirmed a suspension fault. It also noted an air-bag fault warning. The 
repairer questioned whether these issues were related to the accident.
Admiral instructed an engineer who inspected the vehicle. The engineers report included the 
following:
It is of my opinion that the suspension fault and airbag warning light is not accident 
related.
I would advise that the vehicle has a full diagnostic check with [manufacturer] to 
determine any pre existing history with the faults
For the year from 10 January 2023, Mr J renewed the policy. The total cost for the year was 
about £1,100.00. 
By mid-January 2023, Mr J had complained to Admiral that it was mishandling his claim.
On about 24 January 2023, the repairer returned Mr Js vehicle to him and took back its 
courtesy car. The repairer hadnt done any repairs to Mr Js vehicle. Mr J noted a fault with 
the tailgate, causing an interior light to stay on and drain the battery. Mr J also said there 
was a further suspension fault.
In late January 2023, the vehicle was transported to the main dealer.
On 10 February 2023, Admiral arranged a hire car for Mr J.
Admiral said that the issues with the suspension and tailgate were not issues related to the 
accident.
By a final response dated mid-March 2023, Admiral maintained it position regarding those 
issues. Admiral offered to repair the damage that it considered was related to the accident. 
Admiral said it was sending Mr J a cheque for £100.00 compensation for poor service and 
delay in response.
On about 5 May 2023, Admiral or the main dealer returned the vehicle to Mr J. Around that 
time, he made a statutory off-road notification (SORN).
Mr J brought his complaint to us in early May 2023. He said he had put the cheque for 
£100.00 in the bin.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
the expert evidence showed that the accident didnt cause the issues with the suspension, 
air bag and tailgate.
Our investigator thought that Admiral had considerably inconvenienced Mr J. She thought 
that Admiral shouldve been proactive in either arranging the repairs (of the bumper) or 
paying Mr J a cash-in-lieu settlement of the claim. The investigator thought that, because 
Admiral failed to arrange a courtesy car earlier, Mr J had been without a vehicle for 17 days 
between January and February 2023.
The investigator recommended that Admiral should:
1. increase the compensation to £250.00 in total; and
2. award £170.00 for loss of use; and
3. contact Mr J as soon as possible to arrange repairs, or award Mr J a payment for 
cash-in-lieu of repairs in line with the policy terms and conditions.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J  
and to Admiral on 31 October 2023. I summarise my findings:
There wasnt enough evidence that the need for new front shock absorbers or the 
need for new sensors was caused by the impact to the rear of the vehicle. So I didnt 
consider that Admiral treated Mr J unfairly by offering to do repairs only to the 
accident damage to the bumper, or by ceasing to pay for the hire car.
The MOT expired on about 10 October 2023. And the vehicle needs new front shock 
absorbers and some sensors. Theres also a tailgate issue and an airbag warning issue. There is also a possibility of some wiring issues. So  notwithstanding 
Admirals offer  I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
repair the bumper.
Rather, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr J 
£1,400.00 in lieu of repairs to the bumper, less the excess of £350.00.
 
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from Admiral, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay  
Mr J:
1. £1,050.00 in lieu of repairs to the bumper; and
2. £170.00 for loss of use of a vehicle; and
3. insofar as it hasnt already paid him, £250,00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr J disagreed with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that:
The vehicle he reversed in to was a 40- ton wagon, so there was quite some force.
His vehicle has sensors in the rear bumper and its that what got damaged. All the 
connections for the sensors are located behind the near side rear bumper. When that 
fails the suspension goes into extended mode to protect itself.
In calls with Admiral, he asked it to get the car taken to the main dealer. He refused 
to pay as he believed the main dealer would confirm the time and date when the 
suspension fault occurred.
He had 16 years protected NCB with them. Admiral doubled his premium when the 
policy renewed in January. The car was not even driveable.
He would accept the offer provided the £350.00 policy excess is waived for all the 
trouble they have caused him over the last 12 months.
He would also want payment by cheque.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals policy terms said that it would provide a small courtesy car while its authorised 
repairer was repairing Mr Js vehicle.
Ive looked at the MOT history. It shows that on 10 October 2022, the vehicle failed the test 
because of dangerous front tyres and serious defects with some worn parts of the 
suspension.
I accept Mr Js evidence that he paid about £500.00 for repairs. Later the same day, the 
vehicle passed the test with advisories about the rear tyres and the steering rack. From that, 
I find it unlikely that the vehicle had a suspension fault by the end of 10 October 2022.
From the photographs, I see that the accident damaged the nearside corner of the rear 
bumper. I cant see any damage to the tailgate.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr J some 
inconvenience.Ive noted that Admirals first letter to Mr J tried to manage his expectations about the 
timescale for getting the vehicle booked in for repair.
From a phone screenshot, I accept that Mr J spoke to the repairer twice in late October 
2022. On balance, I accept his statement that he told the repairer that the car had 
suspension damage.
I accept that between late October and mid-December 2022, Mr J felt that the vehicle wasnt 
safe to drive. However, I accept Admirals statement that there were widespread shortages 
of labour and parts, causing delay in getting the vehicle booked in. Keeping in mind the 
policy terms, I cant say that Admiral treated Mr J unfairly by not providing a courtesy car 
during that time.
In mid-December 2022, the repairer estimated about £1,400.00 for repairs to the bumper. 
The repairer noted other faults including faults with the suspension and an airbag warning. 
The repairer also noted an intermittent fault with the tailgate release switch. 
Admirals engineer said that the repairer had carried out repairs to a good standard. That 
was incorrect. The repairer had done no repairs.
Mr J has recently described the tailgate bashing on the lock when the repairer returned the 
vehicle to him. However, I dont accept that the issue with the tailgate was caused by the 
repairers misuse of the key. Rather, I find that the vehicle had an intermittent fault with the 
tailgate switch when it arrived at the repairer.
Admirals repairer had provided a courtesy car while it investigated but didnt do any repairs. 
And Admirals engineer suggested further investigation by a main dealer. So I consider that 
 notwithstanding the policy terms  Admiral had created a reasonable expectation that it 
would provide a courtesy car during that further investigation.
However, - and notwithstanding what Admiral has told us - Admiral left Mr J with no usable 
vehicle from about 24 January to about 10 February 2023. That was a period of about 17 
days.
I accept the main dealers statement that the vehicle shouldnt be driven over 30mph with the 
suspension in extended mode.
The main dealers invoice to Admiral dated late April 2023 included the following:
vehicle required new front shockers and height sensors to rectify issue. however, 
when replacing sensors unable to tell the integrity of wiring? at this age etc could be 
corroded or damaged and might need attention when changing
So the main dealer was recommending new front shock absorbers. And the main dealer was 
recommending some new height sensors but was flagging up that there might be damage to 
some wiring. The main dealer hasnt said that the accident caused suspension damage.
In my view, there isnt enough evidence that the need for new front shock absorbers or the 
need for new sensors was caused by the impact to the rear of the vehicle. So I dont 
consider that Admiral treated Mr J unfairly by offering to do repairs only to the accident 
damage to the bumper, or by ceasing to pay for the hire car.
From the file, I find that there were times when Admiral didnt keep M J updated or even 
respond to his email.Mr Js response to the provisional decision
I accept Mr Js point that he reversed into a heavy goods vehicle. As Ive said, Ive noted the 
photographs of the damage to Mr Js vehicle.
I accept that his vehicle has sensors in the rear bumper. But Mr J hasnt previously 
suggested to us that the ride height sensors or their connectors are in the area of the impact 
on the nearside. Neither has the main dealer made that suggestion. So I dont consider that 
theres enough evidence that the impact damaged the ride height sensors or their 
connectors. 
Mr J has said that it was he who asked for his vehicle to go to the main dealer. Although 
Admirals engineer made that recommendation in his report, I have no reason to doubt that 
Mr J had asked for that. So I dont find it proportionate to try to track down the call 
recordings, delaying this final decision. 
I accept that the main dealer didnt provide any evidence of an electronic record of the timing 
of when suspension faults were first logged.
Mr J is unhappy about the premium Admiral charged for renewal from January 2023. But he 
did renew the policy and I havent seen enough evidence that he made that complaint to 
Admiral at any time before its final response dated mid-March 2023. So in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules - our investigator didnt investigate that 
complaint and I cant include it in this final decision.
Mr J contends for a waiver of the £350.00 excess. But that excess was payable on any claim 
(and Mr J made a claim after he reversed into the lorry). 
So the effect of what Mr J is saying is that he would like the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience increased by £350.00. That would be a substantial increase on what I was 
minded to direct. And Mr J hasnt provided any further detail or evidence of an increased 
impact on him. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct a further £350.00 adjustment in 
his favour. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about what its fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do to try to put right the 
shortcomings Ive found.
Ive thought first about repairs to the bumper. Ive noted that the MOT expired on about 10 
October 2023. And the vehicle needs new front shock absorbers and some sensors. Theres 
also a tailgate issue and an airbag warning issue. There is also a possibility of some wiring 
issues. So  notwithstanding Admirals offer  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to repair the bumper.
Rather, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr J £1,400.00 in lieu of repairs 
to the bumper, less the excess of £350.00. Ive thought about directing Admiral to pay 
interest from the date of the claim. But Mr J hasnt been out of pocket for the £1,400.00, so I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to award interest. 
Ive thought next about the 17 days without a vehicle in January and February 2023. I agree 
with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr J £170.00 for 
loss of use of a vehicle.Finally, Ive thought about the impact on Mr J of Admirals poor service and communication. 
That impact included having to contact Admiral on more occasions than shouldve been 
necessary. And Admiral has acknowledged that, at the time, it wasnt delivering good 
telephone service. So Mr J had a frustrating experience.
I agree with the investigator that £250.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. I expect Admiral to cancel its cheque for £100.00 and to pay Mr J 
£250.00. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr J:
1. £1,050.00 in lieu of repairs to the bumper; and
2. £170.00 for loss of use of a vehicle; and
3. insofar as it hasnt already paid him, £250,00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman