DRN-4284867
The complaint
Mr C complains about a payment made using his credit card with Sainsburys Bank Plc 
(Sainsburys). 
What happened
Mr C received a new credit card from Sainsburys. He says he tried to use the card but was 
unsuccessful and that Sainsburys assured him there was nothing wrong with it. 
Mr C then tried to use the card at a store to pay for some books for his journey overseas but 
says this was refused at the till. So, he paid for these using another card. A couple of months 
later, Mr C received notification from Sainsburys that he owed around £45 despite him not 
using the card. He realised that money had been taken using his card for the books by the 
store, despite being told by the store that his card hadnt worked.
So, Mr C complained to Sainsburys and sent them evidence that hed paid for the books 
using his other, non-Sainsburys, card. Sainsburys then told him he was out of time to make 
a chargeback to try to recoup the money. 
Mr C referred the matter to us. Before we started investigating the complaint, Sainsburys 
made a proactive offer to settle it. They said they would write off the transaction for the 
books of £43.94 and would refund all accrued fees and charges of £66.32 which they had 
levied on this. Sainsburys also offered to remove any adverse information relating to this 
transaction from Mr Cs credit file and to pay him £30 for not telling him how time critical it 
was for him to send information back to them before the time elapsed for making a 
chargeback. 
Mr C didnt feel the offer went far enough. He said he felt bullied and ignored by Sainsburys 
and that their actions put him through a lot of stress. Our investigator felt the offer from 
Sainsburys was fair. Mr C didnt though agree.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that this matter has caused Mr C a lot of stress. However, I think that 
Sainsburys offer to settle the complaint is fair. 
I say this because its not possible for me to say with the evidence I have that the transaction 
in question went through, but didnt show as going through, because of a fault with either the 
card or with the till at the store. So, its possible that the fault lay with the store somehow. It 
could of course be possible that the issue lay with the card. As this isnt clear, I think that 
Sainsburys offer to write off this transaction, ensuring no interest and charges accrue as a 
result, is fair and I note it puts Mr C back in the position he would have been had this issue 
not occurred. 
I agree that Sainsburys should have made Mr C aware of the need to send in supporting 
documentation before the chargeback time limit expired. However, even if the chargeback 
could and should have been raised, and was then successful, Mr C would be in the same 
position that the offer from Sainsburys now puts in him. I find their offer of compensation for 
their lack of clarity around the need for Mr C to send in documentation promptly fair in view 
of this. 
Putting things right
Sainsburys has agreed to write off the transaction amount of £43.94 and to refund the 
interest and charges accrued in respect of this. They have also agreed to ensure no adverse 
information is recorded on Mr Cs credit file in respect of this matter and to pay him £30 for 
the inconvenience he was caused by their lack of clarity around making a chargeback in 
time. 
I find this to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
Sainsburys Bank Plc has made an offer to resolve the complaint that I find to be 
appropriate. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman