The complaint
Mr B complains as a director of C, a limited company, that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined to 
cover a claim on its retailer's insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr B is a director of C, a company that carries out repairs to electrical goods. In April 2019, a 
pipe burst in the building above C's shop. The water came through C's ceiling causing 
extensive damage to the shop and all of its contents and stock. C made a claim on its policy 
with AXA for the cost of replacing the damaged contents and stock, and its lost earnings.
AXA noted that C had around £100,000 worth of stock in the shop at the time of the escape 
of water. But it had only asked for around £20,000 worth of cover. AXA said C should 
have made it aware of the true stock value. If it had, it only would have continued to insure C 
if it met certain alarm requirements. But C had no alarm installed at all. So it would have 
cancelled its policy. It therefore declined C's claim, voided the policy back to the date C last 
updated the stock value and refunded any premiums paid after that date. 
When C brought the complaint to us, our investigator initially thought AXA would have 
continued to insure C if it had known the true stock value, but with theft cover removed and 
at a higher price. So he said AXA should reinstate the policy, consider paying a proportion of 
the claim in line with the premiums C had paid and pay C some compensation. AXA then 
sent through a statement from a senior underwriter confirming it wouldn't have offered cover 
on any terms if it had known the true stock value. This persuaded the investigator that AXA 
had in fact acted fairly by voiding the policy and declining the claim. 
C disagreed with the investigator. It said it hadn't intended to act maliciously and the level of 
stock had simply grown faster than it expected. And while there was no alarm installed at the 
shop, there was comprehensive CCTV coverage. It felt AXA should pay the claim in line with 
the proportion of cover it had paid for, and accept its claim for lost earnings. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The law in force when C took out the policy in 2017, and when it renewed the policy in 
subsequent years, was the Insurance Act 2015 ('the Act'). Under this Act, C had a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to AXA. This meant C was required to disclose 
everything it knew, or ought to have known, that could influence AXA's judgement in 
deciding whether to offer cover and on what terms. DRN-1240048
This duty was explained in the terms of C's policy. There was also a separate condition 
which set out that C needed to make AXA aware of any changes to information provided 
previously that increased the risk of loss. This was to enable AXA to decide whether it was 
prepared to continue to provide cover. The statement of fact C was sent with its renewal 
invitation two months before the escape of water said:
"You must make a fair presentation of the risk to us. This means that you should tell us any 
information that may influence us in the acceptance of this insurance and the terms 
provided. This applies prior to the start of your policy, if any variation is required during the 
period of insurance and prior to each renewal. If you do not do this and fail to advise us of 
any inaccuracies or omissions your policy may not protect you in the event of a claim." 
C last updated the stock value on the policy in February 2018. So between then and now, 
the stock value has grown from around £20,000 to around £100,000. C seems to recognise 
that it should have made AXA aware of this, particularly when the policy renewed in 
February 2019. Its reasons for not doing so were that the level of stock grew quickly and it 
would have taken days to create an accurate itinerary. But I think C ought to have known 
that having a higher value of stock on the premises increased AXA's exposure to risk. While 
I don't think C intended to deliberately mislead AXA, I think it breached the duty of fair 
presentation and the terms of its policy by not telling AXA about the increased stock value. 
Where the duty of fair presentation has been breached in a way that wasn't deliberate or 
reckless, the remedy available to an insurer under the Act depends on what it would have 
done if a fair presentation of the risk had been made. If the insurer wouldn't have offered 
cover on any terms, it can avoid the contract and refuse all claims, but must return the 
premiums paid.
That's the remedy AXA has sought to apply here, so I need to decide whether it has been 
able to show that it wouldn't have continued to insure C if it had known the true stock value. 
The remedies for breaching the duty of fair presentation set out in the terms of C's policy 
mirror those set out in the Act. 
AXA has sent us screenshots of its application process which show that if C had updated the 
stock value to £100,000, it would have been asked to confirm it complied with certain alarm 
requirements. There was no alarm installed at C's shop, so it would have had to select 'no'. 
C has said it has CCTV, but this doesn't meet the requirements. And it's for AXA to decide 
what risks it wants to take on and on what terms.
C has also pointed out that the stock was worth slightly less than £100,000, but AXA has 
sent us underwriting evidence to show that alarm requirements would have applied to any 
stock value over £50,000. 
Once C had selected that it didn't meet the alarm requirements, it would have been invited to 
contact AXA. A senior underwriter at AXA has confirmed C would then have been told that 
AXA wasn't prepared to offer theft cover unless the alarm requirements had been met. That 
seems consistent with the fact that it isn't possible to progress any further through the 
application process once someone selects that they don't meet the alarm requirements.
The underwriter has confirmed AXA has no facility to offer C's policy without the theft cover. 
And it doesn't offer shop insurance on any other of its policies. So the only option available 
to AXA would have been to give C a grace period to find alternative cover before invoking its 
right to cancel the policy by giving C 30 days written notice. Overall, taking into account all 
the underwriting evidence I've seen, I'm persuaded that AXA wouldn't have continued to 
insure C if it had made a fair presentation of the risk in relation to the stock value. In light of the above, I think AXA was entitled to decline the claim and void C's policy. It has 
chosen to void it back to the renewal date in February 2018 as this was the last time C 
updated the stock value, and has refunded any premiums C paid since then. I haven't seen 
evidence that the stock value C gave in February 2018, around £20,000, was inaccurate.
It is clear though that the stock value had reached nearly £100,000 by the time Mr R made a 
claim in April 2019. This wasn't long after the renewal date in February 2019. So on balance, 
I think the stock value was likely to have been more than £50,000 by the renewal date in 
February 2019. And as I've mentioned, AXA has sent us evidence to show that alarm 
requirements would have applied to any stock value above £50,000. So the policy should, in 
my view, only have been voided back to February 2019 when C failed to update the stock 
value at renewal. 
I don't think this ultimately makes a difference to the outcome of C's complaint. Using either 
voidance date, C effectively had no valid insurance in April 2019 when the escape of water 
took place. That's because in these circumstances AXA is allowed to treat the policy, as a 
whole, as if it didn't exist after the date it became void. This means that I can't ask AXA to 
pay any aspect of C's claim, or even a proportion of it.  
I appreciate that this is a serious matter for C and I'm conscious of the impact my decision 
may have. I've considered it very carefully, taking into account the relevant law, the policy 
terms and all the circumstances of the case. And having done so, it's my view that AXA's 
decision was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold C's complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2019.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman