DRN-3884142
The complaint
Ms O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) responded poorly 
during and after her Debt Relief Order (DRO) which started in 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O says that Halifax was slow to close her accounts when the DRO began in 2021, and 
then slow to update her credit file after discharge in 2022. She says this caused her distress 
and inconvenience.
Halifax agrees it was slow to close her accounts in 2021 but says that this had no material 
effect on Ms O. And Halifax says it updated her credit file once it had been notified of her 
discharge by the relevant credit reference agency in line with its procedures.
Both parties agree that Halifax was slow to close Ms Os accounts on 2021, but I cant see 
that it has had any financial effect on Ms O. Halifax has apologised to Ms O for the delay, 
and in my view that is a fair and reasonable response.
Halifax has provided evidence that it updated her credit file as soon as it was notified of her 
discharge by a credit reference agency. While I can see that Ms O expected her credit file to 
be updated sooner, I cant see that Halifax has done anything wrong in this matter, so I 
would not be able to award any compensation.
I can see from Ms Os comments that she believes there should be procedures to speed up 
the updating of a credit file following discharge from a DRO but, as explained by our 
investigator that would be a matter for the financial regulator and not this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman
