DRN-3971153
The complaint
Mr M complains about fees he was charged by Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as 
Tesco Bank.
What happened
Mr M holds a credit card account with Tesco.
 
In late 2022, he made some payments which incurred a cash transaction fee. Specifically, 
these payments were to an online trading and spread betting provider. Mr M was unhappy, 
he said he hadnt been told that such payments would incur a fee. So, he complained.
 
Tesco didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary, it said that the cash transaction fee had 
been applied to the payments correctly. Tesco explained that it had, in 2018, sent customers 
a Notice of Variation (NoV) which detailed changes to the credit card terms and conditions. 
One aspect of these changes was a revised list of payments that Tesco deems to be cash 
transactions: payments for share trading, investments or gambling formed part of that list.
 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he contacted our service for an independent review. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened, but she didnt think Tesco had done 
anything wrong.
 
In short, she said that Tesco had charged the cash transaction fees fairly because the 
payments Mr M had made were classified as cash transactions.
 
She acknowledged that Mr M felt Tesco shouldve provided a warning before he could 
confirm the payments. She also noted that Mr M had said he didnt use the card much, so 
likely wouldnt have remembered or read any changes to terms and conditions. But none of 
that meant Tesco had done something wrong, and it didnt need to provide any warning 
before Mr M confirmed his payments.
  
Mr M disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres very little I can add to what our investigator has already explained to Mr M.
 
Tesco applied a cash transaction fee to the payments he made because, in-line with its 
terms and conditions, it deems them to be cash transactions. Theres nothing inherently 
unfair or unreasonable about that.
 
Quite simply, Tesco has acted in accordance with the terms of its agreement with Mr M and 
theres nothing which makes me think its made an error here.
Tesco is under no obligation to provide any further warning, in its mobile app, by text 
message or otherwise, each time a payment might incur a fee. Rather, Tesco provided Mr M 
enough notice of changes to the terms and conditions of its credit card by sending a NoV 
along with his April 2018 statement.
 
Mr M hasnt said that he didnt receive his April 2018 statement, or the attached NoV, and 
Tesco has no record of him contacting it about missing correspondence either. So, on 
balance, I think it likely that it was delivered to him. And thats all Tesco was required to do. 
Ive seen that Mr M has questioned whether anyone truly reads the terms and conditions of 
an agreement, and I understand the point hes making. But while I cant comment more 
widely on whether people do, or dont, read the terms of agreements they enter into  what I 
can say is that Tesco isnt at fault if Mr M didnt read his.
 
Ultimately, it doesnt mean that Mr M isnt bound by the agreement if he didnt read it or 
doesnt remember it.
 
In summary, then, Tesco has acted in-line with the terms of its agreement with Mr M and I 
dont find that it did something wrong in charging the cash transaction fees. It follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint, and I dont require Tesco to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman