DRN-4033815
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc discontinued a claim he made on his 
mortgage payment protection insurance policy for unemployment and later declined a claim 
he made for sickness.
What happened
Mr C had been self-employed but closed his business and became unemployed in 
September 2021. He sent in a claim form at the end of January 2022. However, Pinnacle 
didnt receive this and so didnt start looking into the claim until April 2022 after asking Mr C 
to re-send the form. In May 2022, Pinnacle accepted the claim as starting in September 
2021. It paid out two months worth of payments, up until the beginning of December 2021. 
But it advised Mr C that he would need to provide evidence of job search activity from 
January 2022 for the claim to continue. Mr C said that his computer browser didnt retain any 
history over three months old and so he was unable to provide full evidence of searches. He 
was able to provide some information relating to franchise opportunities he had been 
exploring. However, Pinnacle said that this wasnt sufficient to meet the terms of the policy 
and so discontinued the claim.
Mr C subsequently made a claim for sickness starting on 4 October 2022. Had his 
unemployment claim been active at that point, Pinnacle would probably have been able to 
switch the claim over to sickness. However, as the unemployment claim had been 
discontinued, and because Mr C wasnt in work, his circumstances fell outside the terms of 
the policy and the sickness claim was declined.
Pinnacles position is that it hasnt completely rejected the ongoing claim and would be 
willing to consider making more payments if Mr C is able to provide further job search 
evidence for the periods in question.
Our adjudicator thought that Pinnacle had acted fairly in both discontinuing the 
unemployment claim and declining the sickness claim. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made detailed submissions in support of his complaint. Although I wont be 
addressing every point he has made, I would like to assure Mr C that I have fully read and 
considered all of the information he has supplied.
Part of the definition of unemployment in the policy terms is:
being available for and actively seeking work and being able to provide evidence of this.
The policy also states:
To receive the monthly benefit you must:
e) give us any evidence we ask for to prove your claim is valid and continues to be so.
It was in a letter dated 26 May 2022 that Pinnacle told Mr C that he needed to provide 
documentary evidence of job searches from January 2022. It gave a list of the type of 
documentary evidence that was required, which included:
Letters/emails acknowledging receipt of applications
Letters/emails confirming interview details
Application rejection letters/emails
Any online applications you have made.
Any other letters or e-mails between yourself and prospective employers.
Names and address of employer approached for work.
Additionally, as Mr C had told Pinnacle about researching franchise opportunities, it asked 
him for evidence of planned meetings for June 2022.
I appreciate what Mr C has said about the problem he had with his browser not storing 
searches over three months old. But assuming Mr C received the letter at the end of 
May/beginning of June 2022, he would still have had access to his browser history from 
March 2022. Also, Id have expected him to have access to other evidence, such as emails 
or letters if he had been in touch with prospective employers.
He did provide Pinnacle with a screenshot of an industry specific job search webpage that 
hed looked at in March 2022. He also provided evidence that he had made initial contact 
with a company on 8 May 2022 to enquire about becoming a franchisee. However, neither of 
these two pieces of information, on their own, would satisfy the requirement for documentary 
evidence as set out in Pinnacles letter.
I appreciate that Mr Cs claim was made slightly retrospectively and so he wouldnt have had 
the information about what Pinnacle required at the point that he became unemployed. 
However, what Pinnacle has asked for is not too unusual or onerous and is the sort of thing 
that Id expect anybody that was looking for work to be able to provide.
From June 2022 it seems clear that Mr C was seriously thinking about becoming a 
franchisee. Hes provided emails showing he made enquiries to a few companies and he told 
Pinnacle that he was planning on attending a large franchise exhibition on 17 June 2022 
where he had arranged meetings with two specific companies. However, Pinnacle told Mr C 
on 14 June 2022 that it needed him to provide month on month evidence that he had 
searched for new employment in the form of available vacancies. It said that, alongside 
applying for positions, it would look at considering his franchisee research but that it could 
not be construed as actively seeking employment unless there was a position available to 
him. It confirmed that it therefore did not accept his evidence of going to the exhibition and 
literature as job search evidence. Mr C was advised that, if he wished his claim to continue, 
he would need to provide actual job search evidence. 
So Mr C understood Pinnacles position in mid-June 2022. He said he was disappointed that 
it was only then that it was commenting that researching possible franchise opportunities 
wasnt acceptable, given that he mentioned it on his January 2022 claim form. But of course 
Pinnacle didnt receive the claim form at that time and I cannot hold it responsible for the non-receipt of post. It was when it accepted the claim on 26 May 2022 that it first mentioned 
acceptable job search evidence, which Im satisfied is a reasonable timescale. 
Having been told Pinnacles stance at this point, Mr C could have started supplying the 
necessary job search evidence then, particularly after Pinnacle reiterated the point on 14 
June 2022. Instead, he continued to concentrate his interests on a particular franchise 
company until those enquiries ended at the beginning of October 2022.
Mr C believes that he complied with Pinnacles guidance on job searches, which states:
What do I need to send monthly to prove I am actively seeking employment?
We require the names and addresses of the companies you have approached for 
employment, along with the position you have applied for, the date you applied and whether 
you were offered the job. Please note that there is no set amount of job applications you 
must supply, we just need you to complete the form provided, each month to show that you 
are actively seeking work during the period the claim payment covers.
And:
Keep yourself busy.... whilst between jobs
Start a business. Have you ever wanted to run your own business? Well, why not explore 
this as an option. The web has a vast range of advice and the majority of it is free. Ask at 
your local Jobcentre Plus about starting a business as they will be able to help. Your local 
Businesslink can also help. .......Nothing ventured, nothing gained!
The above guidance reflects Pinnacles position that it expects claimants to be seeking full 
time permanent employment but that it would additionally encourage exploring self-
employment as an option. It does not mean that claimants are able to concentrate on self-
employment only.
The intention of the policy is to provide support to policyholders during a difficult time when 
they have found themselves without work, until they hopefully find work or otherwise receive 
the maximum 12 months benefit. It is not the intention of the policy to provide policyholders 
with a grace period in which they attempt to set up a business rather than actively looking for 
paid employment. Therefore, I consider it is fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to require Mr C 
to provide evidence that he was seeking permanent employment and to discontinue the 
unemployment claim until he is able to provide further evidence of that nature.
Mr C subsequently made a sickness claim beginning from 4 October 2022. Pinnacle 
declined this on the basis that Mr C wasnt in work at the start of the sickness period.
In terms of being eligible for disability (sickness) benefit, the policy terms state:
(ii) to receive the monthly benefit you must:
a) have paid the premium and continue to do so during your claim.
b) have been in full-time employment or self-employment when your disability occurred.
As Mr C had not been in work since September 2021, the sickness claim was correctly 
declined in line with the policy terms as he was not in work immediately prior to the sickness. 
As previously stated, had Mr Cs unemployment claim been active at the time, it might have 
been possible to switch the claim over to one of sickness. However, as I have concluded that 
it was reasonable of Pinnacle to discontinue the unemployment claim, it follows that there 
was no active claim to switch over.I dont underestimate the difficult time that Mr C is going through and sympathise with his 
situation. However, in looking at Pinnacles response to Mr Cs unemployment and sickness 
claims, I am unable to conclude that it has done anything wrong.
I understand that Mr C is also unhappy with how Pinnacle handled his complaint, in 
particular delays with correspondence. Pinnacle has explained that it sends correspondence 
by post as it doesnt consider emails to be secure. I appreciate Mr C feels this contradicts 
other messaging from Pinnacle and that the time lag was frustrating. But Pinnacle is entitled 
to make its own business decisions in terms of how it chooses to communicate with its 
customers.
As mentioned, Pinnacle hasnt fully declined the claim and will look at further information that 
Mr C is able to provide. Therefore, if Mr C has any other evidence of looking for paid 
employment (such as times he made phone calls or email responses to job applications), he 
might wish to consider forwarding this to Pinnacle for it to review.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman