DRN-3202019
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided an 
overdraft to him that was unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr N held a current account with Halifax which had an overdraft attached to it. In    
November 2018, Halifax approved an application from Mr N to increase the overdraft limit 
from £500 to £600. Following this, in December 2019 Mr N made a further online application 
to increase his overdraft to £1,500 and in January 2020, he applied to increase it to £2,500. 
Halifax approved both these applications.
In July 2020, Mr N complained to Halifax and said he thought it irresponsibly provided the 
overdraft and the subsequent limit increases. He said he didnt understand how Halifax could 
allow him to increase his overdraft from £500 to £2,500 so quickly, without querying this with 
him. He said options to freeze the account transactions were only provided after he 
complained. And he said the daily fees he was required to repay had a knock-on effect to his 
finances and day to day life.
Halifax looked into Mr Ns complaint, but it disagreed that it had been irresponsible in lending 
to him. It said the charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
overdraft. And it said Mr N hadnt contacted them to let them know he was in financial 
difficulty, so it wasnt aware he was struggling to manage his finances. Unhappy with this,  
Mr N referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Halifax ought 
to have realised that Mr N wasnt using his overdraft as intended following the overdraft limit 
increase in November 2018. He said he didnt think the checks Halifax did when it approved 
each of the overdraft limit increases went far enough and said if Halifax had carried out 
further checks, it would have seen Mr N was using the account to fund gambling 
transactions. 
Mr N agreed with the adjudicators findings. But Halifax said the level of gambling in 
comparison to the income Mr N had declared wasnt concerning. It also said the level of 
gambling on the account was decreasing between each of the overdraft increase 
applications.
As Halifax remain in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Before approving any overdraft applications, Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mr N could afford to repay the amount it was lending. A proportionate check is dependent on 
a number of factors including  but not limited to  Mr Ns particular circumstances (e.g. his 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit he was looking to obtain. In this case, as     
Mr N was being provided with an overdraft, which is a revolving credit facility, Halifax needed 
to be satisfied that Mr N could afford to repay what he was being lent within a reasonable 
period of time.
In November 2018, Halifax approved an application made by Mr N to increase the overdraft 
limit to £600. Before lending to Mr N, Halifax obtained details of Mr Ns income and 
expenditure. It has sent our service a copy of the information it obtained. Having reviewed 
the information, this information in itself doesnt suggest that an overdraft amount of £600 
was unaffordable for Mr N. 
However, Halifax would have known how Mr N was managing his account at this stage. And 
given Halifax ought to have been aware of Mr Ns account management, I would have 
reasonably expected it to have taken this into account when deciding whether to lend to     
Mr N. Ive looked at Mr Ns bank statements to get an idea of his account management and 
having done so, I dont think it was fair for Halifax to approve an overdraft limit increase in 
November 2018. Ill explain why.
Between July 2018 and November 2018, Mr Ns bank statements primarily show overdraft 
fees being charged and transactions to multiple gambling companies. Mr Ns account also 
didnt have a salary being paid into it during these months, although transfers were paid in 
from another account he held. But when payments were paid into the account, more often 
than not, the money that was transferred in was immediately spent on gambling. In addition, 
Mr Ns account only held a nominal positive balance for one day in July 2018 and one day in 
August 2018. At the time Halifax agreed to the overdraft increase in November 2018, Mr N 
hadnt had a credit balance on his account since early August 2018. This suggests to me 
that Mr N was having difficulty managing his money. And so I dont think it was fair for 
Halifax to approve the overdraft limit increase in November 2018, as its there was a clear 
evidence to show that he was unlikely to be able to repay the additional funds without 
borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Following this, Mr N made applications to increase his overdraft limit to £1,500 in   
December 2019 and £2,500 in January 2020. Given there was around a year between these 
overdraft limit increases being approved and the previous application, Ive looked at whether 
it was fair for Halifax to approve these applications, as Mr Ns circumstances may have 
improved. However, having done so, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it approved both 
these applications. Ill explain why.
Before approving both these applications, Halifax obtained details of Mr Ns income and 
expenditure. It has sent our service a copy of the information it obtained. Having reviewed 
this information, it shows that Mr Ns income had broadly stayed the same since     
November 2018, but his expenditure had increased by around 25%. Mr Ns statements 
clearly show he was making use of his overdraft and he consistently remained in it. Given 
that Mr N hadnt had a credit balance on his account since August 2018 and Halifax had 
access to this information, I cant see how Halifax reasonably concluded hed been able to 
repay additional funds, when hed already proved he was unable to repay what he already 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
The following month, Halifax agreed to increase Mr Ns overdraft by a further £1,000. Again 
it obtained details of Mr Ns income and expenditure. For this application, Mr N declared that 
his income had increased by £100 from the previous month, but he also said his expenditure 
had decreased by 45%. This included his expenditure for his living costs decreasing by 
nearly 50%. I think difference in the income and expenditure alone here should have 
prompted Halifax to do further checks. Ive also looked through Mr Ns bank statements from 
the time and can see that he was consistently using his overdraft and by this point, he hadnt 
had a credit balance on the account for around 17 months. I think Mr Ns use of his account between November 2018 and January 2020 demonstrated 
he wasnt using his overdraft facility as it was intended. Instead he was using the account, 
more often than not, to make gambling transactions. Halifax has said Mr Ns use of the 
account to fund gambling transactions was reducing. And I agree in some months there 
were no gambling transactions, such as in September 2019. But between October 2019 and 
December 2019, the bank statements show evidence of gambling. In December 2019, the 
gambling was around 70% of Mr Ns declared income. So Im not satisfied Mr Ns bank 
statement showed he was spending less on gambling or that he had some other method of 
repaying the facility going forward. In addition, Mr Ns account didnt have a fixed income 
paid into it and Halifax didnt verify Mr Ns income at any point whilst lending to him. 
So having considered all of this, I dont think Halifax carried out reasonable checks at the 
time of each of the lending applications. I think reasonable and proportionate checks, in 
November 2018, would more likely than not have shown that Mr N wasnt in a position to 
repay what he already owed, let alone additional funds. So Halifax shouldnt have provided 
Mr N with an overdraft at all from this point onwards and I dont think its fair for Halifax to 
have charged any interest or associated fees to the account from November 2018 onwards.
Overall, Im not satisfied the information available to Halifax suggested that Mr N would be 
able to repay what he borrowed, within a reasonable amount of time when it approved the 
overdraft limit increases. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the overdraft was increased in November 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan,   
Mr N is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Halifax to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ns credit file, Halifax should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in           
November 2018. Halifax can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr N over 
his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr N along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file. Halifax can also 
reduce Mr Ns overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to take off tax 
from this interest. Halifax must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off 
if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman