DRN-3875387
The complaint
Mr S has complained that when he switched accounts with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money, he was offered an incentive of receiving an £100 experience day voucher and 
15,000 Virgin points. But Mr S says that he received only the Virgin points.
To resolve his complaint, Mr S would like the experience day voucher instead.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complained to Virgin Money that when he switched accounts, he was under the 
impression that he would get both 15,000 Virgin Points and a £100 experience day voucher.
However, Virgin Money has explained that the offers available at the time were either: 
15,000 Virgin points if switching via the Virgin Red app; or alternatively a £100 experience 
day voucher if switching via Virgin Moneys website. But someone switching was not eligible 
to receive both. And as Mr S switched via the Virgin Red app, that is why he received the 
Virgin points.
I have had a look at an archived version of the Virgin Red website from when Mr S applied to 
switch his account, to understand what Mr S was likely to have seen at the time. 
I note that the offer on the Virgin Red website only mentioned earning Virgin Points  there 
was no mention that an experience day voucher was also part of the same deal. Therefore, I 
cant reasonably say that there was anything in the offer from Virgin Red that wouldve led 
Mr S to believe that he would receive an experience day voucher as well. 
I understand that at the same time, Virgin Money had a separate switching offer  which 
awarded a £100 experience day voucher  but that was only available by clicking a link on 
its website. As Mr S didnt switch by clicking on the website link, this meant that he was 
unable to get the £100 experience day voucher. 
Mr S said that the Virgin Money website was unclear. However, I have had a look at the 
archived version of Virgin Moneys website - specifically the switching offer from April 2022  
to see how the offer was advertised. The website says:
Once your account is open, and youve met the qualifying criteria, well be in touch with your 
Gift Card within 14 days.
The website then goes on to state what the qualifying criteria are. That says:
Terms apply. Age 18+, UK only, offers may be withdrawn at any time. Subject to 
availability. Excludes existing M, M Plus and Club M Account customers, including closures 
since 30/11/21 & those who've taken up previous bundles or Virgin Red offers for switching 
to Virgin Money.
And this was further explained under the Terms and Conditions of the offer which said:
Who can take up this offer?
New M Plus Account and Club M Account customers who:
oare 18+;
oare resident in the UK;
odont already have an M, M Plus or Club M current account, and havent closed 
one recently (since 30 November 2021); and
ohavent previously taken up a Brighter Money Bundle or Virgin Red Points offer 
for switching to Virgin Money.
So based on the above, Im satisfied that as Mr S didnt switch using the link on Virgin 
Moneys website, he wasnt entitled to receive the £100 experience day voucher. And Im 
also satisfied that it was explained on Virgin Moneys website at the time - and not just 
buried in the switching offer terms and conditions - that the website switching offer i.e. the 
experience day voucher, was not available to anyone whod switched either via a previous 
bundle or via the Virgin Red app.
I understand why Mr S was frustrated that he didnt get both of the awards. But in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably say that he shouldve received the experience day 
voucher under the terms of the Virgin Red switching offer that was in place at the time. As 
such, I cant reasonably say that Virgin Money has acted incorrectly or unfairly by not 
awarding Mr S with a £100 experience day voucher.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman