DRN-2796305
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) damaged his car when they recovered it 
after he claimed on his roadside assistance policy.
 
What happened
In February 2018, Mr Rs car wouldnt start so he called UKI to assist him. UKI jumped 
started the car and Mr R was able to continue his journey.
  
Over the following months and years, Mr R experienced intermittent issues with his car. So 
he took his car to several garages to see if they could repair the car, however they were 
unable to help. So Mr R decided to try and repair the issue himself and bought a widely 
recognised engineering guide to follow, as hes a key worker and needed a reliable working 
car.
 
Over the next couple of years, Mr R followed the engineering guide, replacing various parts 
on the car to eliminate the issue. He also researched the cause of the issue and noted that 
because his car had a smart charge system, that it shouldnt have been jump started by UKI.
At the end of December 2020, Mr R called out UKI again to look at the battery light which 
wouldnt turn off on the cars dashboard. Mr R said the UKI engineer looked at his car and 
said the smart charging system could have been damaged when the car had been jump 
started back in 2018, so they advised him to change the system.
 
Based on what UKIs engineer said, and the information Mr R researched over the previous 
couple of years, he felt UKI were responsible for the faults that had arisen on his car since 
2018. So Mr R complained to UKI and asked them to refund the costs of the parts hed 
replaced.
 
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. They acknowledged Mr R had changed the battery and 
alternator himself, but this hadnt resolved the issue with the battery warning light. But they 
said they needed evidence from an independent garage of what the fault was so they could 
investigate further  as they werent able just to accept his word that theyd caused the 
issue.
 
Mr R wasnt happy with the way his complaint had been investigated by UKI. He also said 
that UKIs call handler had been unhelpful and when hed called, they didnt pass him to a 
manager when asked. So he raised a further complaint.
UKI didnt uphold this complaint either. They said they felt the complaint response was 
reasonable as they didnt have any evidence to substantiate Mr Rs claim for damage to his 
car. They also said there wasnt a manager available when Mr R had called, but theyd 
agreed a call back within 24 hours, which they felt was reasonable. So they didnt feel theyd 
been obstructive. Mr R didnt agree and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said she hadnt seen any 
evidence which confirmed Mr Rs car had been damaged by UKI. She also said that 
although Mr R had researched and fixed his car himself, given that over two years had 
passed since UKI had jump started the car, she couldnt fairly say they were responsible for 
any issues.
 
The investigator said that if the warning light remained lit throughout 2018, she felt it was 
reasonable that Mr R would have raised it with UKI at the time. She also said shed listened 
to the calls Mr R had with UKI staff and theyd said it was possible the fault could have been 
caused by the jump start. However, these staff hadnt actually seen Mr Rs car, and as he 
hadnt been able to provide an independent report showing the fault was caused by UKI she 
didnt think it was fair to hold UKI responsible.
 
Mr R didnt agree as he said we hadnt spoken to an engineer and also hadnt asked UKI if 
they would consider a partial refund. So he asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint, and the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have to reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have to decide what I consider is more likely to have happened 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances.
Mr R has told us that he feels UKI damaged his car when they jump started it back in 2018, 
and therefore they should refund him the costs hes incurred replacing parts to locate the 
fault. He feels the research hes undertaken and the confirmation from UKIs engineer in 
2020 should be enough evidence for UKI to accept this was the case and he feels theyre 
treating him unfairly by not doing so. But I dont agree. 
I acknowledge Mr R says his car has been well maintained and the problem would only have 
occurred when UKI made this jump start. However, its been over two years since that event 
took place and the car has been driven for a further 4,000 miles roughly, so there could be 
other reasons for the battery warning light and other issues to take place. 
Its also possible Mr R could have jump started the car himself during that period, as UKI 
also have records of a similar issue in 2016 where Mr R contacted them for a previous call 
out. This suggests that that there was potentially already a fault with the car from this point. 
Ive seen that Mr R didnt contact UKI at the time of the jump start or in the following months 
to say that he was experiencing issues with the car. So if the fault was due to the jump start 
as Mr R suggests, I think its reasonable to believe there would have been some noticeable 
differences in the cars performance at the time, which he could have raised with UKI and 
asked them to investigate. 
Mr R has told us that in the time since the jump start took place, hed taken his car to various 
garages and was told the smart charge system would have been damaged by the jump start 
- however he hasnt provided any evidence of this to either UKI or this service. 
Looking at the government site for MOT report history, it shows that for 2018, 2019 and 
2020, Mr Rs car didnt have any advisories noted about the battery light appearing on the 
dashboard, or any intermittent faults linked to this - which Mr R may have raised as a 
concern. I also think its reasonable to believe this would have at least been highlighted as 
an advisory or a defect had the fault been present at the time the MOT certificate was 
provided. Ive also looked at the engineer notes from the end of December 2020, where Mr R said he 
was told the smart system had been damaged and it needed replacing. However, the notes 
say the primary fault was with the alternator or charging lamp, and I havent seen anything 
indicating the engineer said the jump start in 2018 had caused the issue or that hed 
suggested this to Mr R. 
UKI told us that theyd asked Mr R to provide a report from an independent garage 
confirming the cause of the fault which they would then consider. I acknowledge Mr Rs 
comments that his policy booklet doesnt say he would need to provide a specialist report. 
However, given the length of time which has passed, and the lack of evidence to support his 
claims, and the MOT history, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to ask for this before they 
considered the complaint further. 
Mr R has told us he feels we should have requested engineers or specialist reports as part 
of our investigation, and without it we cant come to a reasonable outcome. But thats not 
part of our remit, our role is to review the evidence provided by both parties - if Mr R wanted 
us to look at an engineers report, then he would have needed to supply this to us. 
Its also worth noting that if we had spoken to an engineer, its unlikely they would have been 
able to diagnose a fault without seeing the vehicle. And even if an engineer had said it was 
possible the fault could have occurred in this way  which is what Mr R said hes been told 
by other sources  this wouldnt be conclusive enough to say the UKI jump start was the 
cause, as it remains speculation. 
I recognise Mr R has used engineering guides and the internet to research the issue, and 
the time its taken him to reach his conclusion about the cause of the fault and repair it. 
However, Mr R has replaced the alternator which Ive seen in the engineer notes from 2018 
was the likely cause of the car not starting at that time  and therefore on the balance of 
probability would have needed replacing anyway.
Its also possible that the other parts which were replaced by Mr R may not have needed 
replacing at that time, but due to the process of elimination that he followed he needed to 
remove them as potential cause. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask UKI to pay for 
parts that may not have needed replacing or would have needed replacing at some point in 
the future as part of the general maintenance process to keep the car in working order. 
I acknowledge Mr R has also told us that he feels we should ask UKI to refund either the 
cost of the repairs or at least ask them to contribute to the costs. But we have to be fair to 
both parties so we wouldnt ask them to contribute if we didnt think they were responsible. 
And in this case, based on what Ive seen, Mr R hasnt provided conclusive evidence 
showing that UKI were responsible for the fault. 
Therefore, I dont think UKI have done anything wrong by asking Mr R for an independent 
report for them to consider his allegations and declining to refund Mr R for the costs hes 
incurred. So I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman