DRN-4055264
The complaint
Mr B complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAIC), and the 
valuation placed on his car after it was deemed a total loss.
What happened
Mr B held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AAIC. Unfortunately, in July 2021, Mr 
Bs car was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. And the damage his car sustained 
led to it being deemed a total loss.
AAIC offered Mr B a pre-accident valuation (PAV) payment of £1,255, based on the trade 
guide estimated valuations they were able to obtain. This was made difficult due to Mr Bs 
car being registered in 2006, when the same make, model and specification of car was 
discontinued in 2005.
Mr B didnt think this valuation was fair, so he raised a complaint. Mr B thought the PAV offer 
put to him by AAIC was too low, and he felt a more realistic value was between £1,800 to 
£2,500. He explained AAICs offer wouldnt allow him to purchase a similar car of a similar 
specification and so, he wanted the offer to be increased.
AAIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd acted fairly when 
valuing Mr Bs car, using the trade guides that were able to provide valuations. And they 
explained the payment was designed to provide Mr B with the market value of the car, which 
can differ from the actual cost to replace it. So, AAIC didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the difficulties in 
obtaining an exact valuation of Mr Bs car, and that none of the trade guides were able to 
provide a direct valuation. But our investigator explained that, alongside the two trade guide 
valuations AAIC had found, our service had found another trade guide valuation which 
valued Mr Bs car at significantly higher. So, as none of the valuations were a direct 
valuation for Mr Bs car, our investigator thought the fairest approach would be to take an 
average of all three valuations found and pay Mr B this amount. In this situation, the average 
amounted to £1,455 rather than the initial £1,255 valuation Mr B was offered. So, our 
investigator thought AAIC should value the car at this amount and pay Mr B any outstanding 
amount that remained owed to him.
Mr B accepted this recommendation. But AAIC didnt. They felt the third valuation our 
service found was substantially higher and so, under standard approach, should be 
discarded. And in this situation, their original valuation was an average of the other two 
valuations available. So, they felt their original valuation was fair.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained unchanged, explaining 
that, as no exact valuation could be found, they felt taking an average of all three valuations 
was the fairest approach on this occasion. AAIC didnt provide any further comments and so, 
as AAIC hadnt accepted our investigators recommendation, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its accepted that, due to the registration of Mr Bs car, an exact valuation of its market 
value hasnt been possible to find. Ive seen the engineers report which explains the 
struggles they encountered when attempting to value Mr Bs car. And both AAIC and our 
service have encountered the same difficulties when using the trade guides.
Using these guides to obtain the closest possible valuations, which is standard industry 
approach, Ive seen that three valuations have been found for £1,175, £1,335, and £1,857. 
And the average of these three valuations amounts to £1,455. 
In general, standard industry approach states that, where one valuation is significantly 
different to the others obtained, this valuation can be discarded, and an average of the 
closer valuations used to calculate a PAV payment. So, I understand why AAIC feel they 
have acted fairly when calculating the PAV based on the two lower valuations, as they are 
much closer in value.
But crucially, this is a standard approach, not a rule. So, I dont think this means the 
approach should, and must, be followed in all situations. Instead, Id only expect a business 
to rely on this approach where it seems fair to do so. In this situation, none of the valuations 
are an exact valuation for Mr Bs car that was deemed a total loss, due to the issue 
presented by its registration. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair to discard any 
of the valuations that are able to be obtained, as neither AAIC nor our service are able to 
determine which of the valuations are the closest match to the exact, make, model and 
specifications of Mr Bs car.
So, in this situation, I think a fair valuation of Mr Bs car would be the value of £1,455 which 
considers all the trade guide valuations. And as AAIC have offered PAV payment for less 
than this amount, I dont think Im able to say theyve acted fairly on this occasion. 
Putting things right
As I dont think AAIC have acted fairly, Ive then turned to what I think AAIC should do to put 
things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr B back in the position he 
wouldve been in, had AAIC acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had AAIC acted fairly, I think they wouldve offered Mr B a PAV payment of 
£1,455, rather than £1,255. So, this is what I think AAIC should do. If AAIC have already 
made a payment to Mr B for his car, then I think AAIC should pay Mr B any outstanding 
amount, to ensure Mr B received the total payment he wouldve received had the car been 
valued at £1,455.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:Pay Mr B any amount that is outstanding to ensure he receives the full PAV payment 
he wouldve been entitled to had his car been valued at £1,455.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman