DRN-4082476
The complaint
Mr I complains that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV (AIE) havent refunded his Home 
and Contents insurance policy excess of £100 even though his insurance claim was 
declined.
What happened
In July 2022 the ceiling in Mr Is downstairs bathroom came down. He made a claim against 
his Home and Contents insurance policy with AIE. They inspected the damage and looked 
for the cause. AIE said the cause was a leak due to defective gout/sealant. As this wasnt 
covered under Mr Is policy, they declined his claim. Mr I complained to AIE as he didnt think 
it was fair that he should be asked to pay £100 excess for a declined claim. He said hed 
subsequently gotten three quotes for the work to be done and hadnt been asked to pay 
anything for these. He didnt think the £100 was reflective of the cost for locating the cause 
of the damage.
AIE said Mr Is excess payment was non-refundable as hed made a claim and costs were 
incurred as their services were provided. And the excess was payable irrespective of the 
outcome of the claim. 
Mr I wasnt happy with AIEs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that the payment of the £100 excess was in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Is insurance policy.
Mr I didnt agree he said the terms and conditions didnt make clear that the excess wouldnt 
be refunded if a claim made against his insurance policy was declined. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr I will be disappointed but having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will 
be covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer 
must pay the claim unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. I can 
see that Mr I made a claim against his insurance policy after there was a leak of water in his 
property that caused damage. 
Its not in dispute that Mr I had a valid claim. And Mr I isnt disputing AIEs decision to decline 
his insurance claim relying on the exclusion term that said the policy didnt cover for failure 
of or lack of sealant and/or grout. So, I wont comment further in my decision about this.
What remains in dispute is that Mr I had to pay his policy excess of £100 which he didnt 
think was fair. He said the terms and conditions werent clear and he thought the amount 
was excessive in comparison to what AIE had done. The issue for me to determine is 
whether AIEs terms and conditions were clear and applied fairly.
Our role isnt that of the regulator, that is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But in 
reaching a decision Ive considered the regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice. For 
this complaint Ive considered the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and 
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) standards.
ICOBS 2.2.2 says:
When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a customer it must 
ensure that 2 is clear, fair and not misleading,
And an outcome for TCF is that:
Consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, 
during and after the point of sale.
ICOBS says a business selling a policy should take reasonable steps to make sure the 
customer is given appropriate information about the policy so they can make an informed 
decision about whether to buy it. And this information includes the policys main benefits, 
exclusions and limitations. It has the option to do this by providing a policy summary or key 
facts document which mentions it before the policy is actually purchased. I can see Mr I was 
provided with a certificate of insurance, a policy information document and the terms and 
conditions of his policy. The starting point for my consideration must be the wording of the 
policy.  
Nearly all insurance policies have an excess. The excess is the first part of a claim that the 
consumer has to pay. Consumers can choose to have a higher excess in order to reduce the 
premium as the insurer wont be paying as much if a claim is payable. The amount of the 
excess should be agreed when the policy is taken out  and it must be clear in the policy 
documents
I can see Mr Is certificate of insurance details the excess hed agreed he would need to pay 
for claims under the different sections of his policy, and for buildings this was £100.
And in his policy booklet under the section How to make a claim it says:
We will advise you as to how your claim will be dealt with and any excess that you must 
pay"
And goes on to say
Apart from the excess, you will not need to worry about payment of any bills associated with 
your claim where costs are covered by the policy.I think this shows the excess must be paid regardless of the outcome of the claim. I think AIE 
explain that costs covered under the policy would be paid apart from the excess. So Mr I would 
be liable for the excess payment and any costs not covered by the policy.
Under the section headed Definitions, there is a section clearly headed Excess that explains:
"EXCESS The first amount of each claim which you must pay. The amount of the excess is 
shown in the schedule. If a claim resulting from the same incident is made under more than 
one section of this policy, we will deduct the higher excess.
Again, I think this makes clear that the excess is paid for each claim and it doesnt 
differentiate as to whether the claim is accepted or declined. As Mr I made a claim against 
his insurance policy, I cant say AIE acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the £100 
excess.
So having considered the policy wording I think AIE has adhered to ICOBS and TCF. I think its 
clear and not misleading from the policy wording that the agreed excess amount must be paid for 
each claim made against the insurance policy. And Mr Is certificate of insurance clearly shows 
the agreed excess for a claim against his building insurance would be £100.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman