DRN-1955679
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Ms Q says 
she was mis-sold such a policy by Nationwide Building Society in 2002 with a new mortgage.
What happened
I can see Ms Q has already been paid back some money, for the commission above 50% 
Nationwide made from selling her the MPPI policy. This amount is in accordance with rules 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Our adjudicator then looked at the mis-sale element of the complaint and recommended that 
it shouldnt be upheld. Ms Q disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
Ms Qs main point of complaint is that she was told she was required to have the MPPI with 
the mortgage because she didnt have a life insurance policy. Im not doubting that Ms Q 
honestly thinks now that the MPPI was mis-sold, but these events are from 18 years ago and 
its obviously possible she doesnt remember everything that happened.
Nationwide says the MPPI Ms Q bought didnt actually contain any life cover. I see that the 
MPPI policy was also sold as free of charge for 12 months and I think its unlikely that a 
policy portrayed as compulsory, as Ms Q alleges, would also be free. However, I also think 
that that the wording on Ms Qs mortgage application did portray the MPPI as an optional 
extra. It said, I would like to protect my payments against accident, sickness and / or 
unemployment. Nationwide has provided me with sufficient information to make a decision 
on the type and level of cover I need. Ms Q signed this part of the form as well as her 
mortgage application at the end.
I think this would have all been drawn up after discussing Ms Qs requirements. I also note 
that after numerous subsequent annual renewals of the MPPI, some of which appear to be 
clear that the cover is indeed optional, Ms Q retained the MPPI cover until 2019. In my view, 
all these indicate to me that the cover is something Ms Q wanted to have in the first place 
and was happy to keep it running. Overall, I therefore think Nationwide obtained her consent. 
In accordance with our understanding of these types of sales, Nationwide said this wasnt an 
advised sale. Its duty was therefore restricted to providing information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. It was for Ms Q herself to decide whether or not the policy was 
something she wanted to buy. 
Ms Q was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy. I dont think the cost of the cover was substantially different from 
similar policies being marketed at the time and Ive nothing to say Ms Q found the monthly 
premiums unaffordable. Ms Q told us she already enjoyed some protection from sickness 
through her job. But this doesnt make the policy of no use; Ms Qs mortgage was secured 
against her home so I can understand how a policy like this could have been of use to her in 
this situation. Policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times and it could have 
paid out a monthly sum of £400 for up to 12 months if successfully claimed on. 
I cant say whether Ms Q was told everything about the policy or that Nationwide did 
everything right. But the costs do seem to have been clearly explained as was what the 
cover was designed for. Taking all the evidence into account, I cant safely say this policy 
was mis-sold. 
For the mis-sale element, Im very sorry I cant help Ms Q on this occasion. And she has 
already been paid for the commission element in accordance with FCA rules.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman