DRN-2862438
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a fair
total loss settlement when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car had been adapted to allow use of a wheelchair for his daughter (the adaptions).
Mr S made LV aware of the adaptions when he bought his policy.
Mr Ss car was damaged in an incident and so he made a claim to LV. LV said it wasnt
economical to repair Mr Ss car and so it settled his claim by paying the market value for a
similar car based on a standard model. Mr S complained. After referring the case to an
engineer, LV increased the total loss settlement by £1,380 to take into account the
adaptations.
Ms S said this wasnt anywhere near enough to meet the costs to replace his car with the
adaptations. Meanwhile, Mr S said he bought a replacement car which was three years old
with existing adaptations and he asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought that the correct starting point was for LV to look at similar makes
and models of Mr Ss car, which it had done. But he thought LV should have then looked at
the costs to add the adaptations to this type of car. He thought this would be the only way LV
could reach a fair market value in line with its policy. Although LV had looked at other
vehicles with similar adaptations in deciding the extra sum of £1,380, the investigator didnt
think this was fair. He didnt think LV had met the term under the policy to replace Mr Ss car
with one of the same specification.
LV said it agreed it should include the costs of the adaptations, but at their depreciated
value. It said it would consider the costs on receipt of proof of purchase receipts from Mr S. It
also said it would re-evaluate the settlement by taking into account three motor trade guides
for the same make and model of Mr Ss car. Then it would consider the amount Mr S paid to
adapt the vehicle, and would apply any depreciation from the date the adaptations were
done, rather than the age of the vehicle.
LV said it wouldnt agree to increase the valuation by the amount to modify the vehicle again.
LV said this would put Mr S in a position of betterment.
Our investigator explained that LVs policy wording says it will pay the cost to replace Mr Ss
car with one of the same make, model and specification. And so in order to have the same
specification, Mr S needs to have enough money to buy a replacement vehicle and then
have it adapted.
LV said it believes its approach is reasonable by looking at similarly adapted vehicles, albeit
different makes and models to Mr Ss.
The investigator asked Mr S for proof of purchase of the replacement vehicle and of the
adaptations. Mr S said his daughter bought it and he would provide this information. The
investigator explained that without this evidence, the ombudsman would have to make a
decision without it.
Mr S didnt provide any proof of purchasing a replacement vehicle. So on 5 May 2021 I 
issued a provisional decision. Without any proof that Mr S had paid more than LV had 
provided to buy another adapted car compared to the cost to have a standard model the 
same as his old adapted vehicle, I explained that I couldnt ask LV to more than it has. 
I gave both parties a further opportunity to provide information. LV accepted my provisional 
decision. Mr S hasnt replied.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no new information since my provisional decision, my final decision is along 
the same lines. 
To be fair to both parties, we asked Mr S on a number of occasions to provide proof of 
purchase so that we can consider what it cost Mr S to buy to replace the vehicle with 
adaptations under the claim.
As Mr S hasnt provide evidence he (or his daughter) paid more than LV provided to buy
another adapted car and what it would have cost to have a standard model the same as his
old one provided, then I cannot ask LV to do more than it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman