DRN-2493961
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss L. The car here was 
around five years old and had completed about 45,701miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Miss L reported faults with the coil pack, spark plugs, headlight and a missing sun visor In 
January 2020 when shed only had the car for about a month. She also reported a fault with 
the front shock absorbers the following month. I think given the relatively short time shed 
had the car, that it was likely these faults were present on the vehicle when supplied. The 
business were therefore right to rectify them at no cost to Miss L and I can see she accepted 
those repairs.
Miss L had to have the brake callipers looked at in June 2020. It seems that they were 
lubricated as they were sticking but I think brakes are items that are subject to wear and 
tear. Im not persuaded that Miss L has provided sufficient evidence to suggest the brake 
calliper issue was present or developing at the point the business were responsible for the 
cars quality  the point they supplied it to Miss L.
The independent engineer has confirmed that the repairs completed to date have been 
successful. He says there is still a fault with a vibration through the steering that he thinks is 
likely to be related to steering geometry. Its his expert opinion that this fault is unlikely to 
have been present or developing when the vehicle was supplied as hes noted Miss L has 
been able to drive 5,500 miles in the car. I havent seen sufficient evidence to dispute his 
expert opinion so I think its likely this fault has developed since Miss L took receipt of the car 
and it therefore wouldnt be fair to ask Black Horse to take any action about it.
Black Horse have arranged an independent inspection to clarify if there are any issues with 
the car they could reasonably be held accountable for. Theyve also offered Miss L £250 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think, in the circumstances, 
they have been reasonable, and Im not persuaded there has been sufficient evidence 
provided to suggest they should allow Miss L to reject the car.
I can see Miss L is disappointed that there was only 3 months MOT provided on her car. 
But, theres no requirement for a business to provide a specific length of MOT so it would not 
be fair for me to suggest Black Horse have been unreasonable in that respect. 
Im therefore not asking Black Horse to take any further action.
  
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman