DRN-3670344
The complaint
Miss S and Mr S have complained about the service provided and the level of settlement
paid by The Baxendale Insurance Company DAC (Baxendale) under their Transit
and Storage Insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Baxendale also includes its agents and representatives 
throughout this decision letter.
What happened
Miss S and Mr S engaged a specialist removals and storage company to collect their 
household goods in 2017 and to put them into storage until they moved to a new home.
They bought an insurance policy with Baxendale to cover these events and provided
Baxendale with an itemised list of goods over the value of £500. They paid additional
insurance premiums to obtain cover of up to £125,000.
When Miss S and Mr S arranged for Baxendale to deliver their household goods to their new
home two years later, they found that a number of their household items had been lost or
damaged. They therefore made a claim on their insurance policy. Baxendale eventually
reached settlement on most of the claimed items and Miss S and Mr S signed Acceptance
and Discharge Forms for these items in 2019 and 2020. Miss S and Mr S then said they
were unhappy with the settlement figures as they didnt feel they fairly reflected the losses
theyd incurred. They were also unhappy that Baxendale hadnt paid compensation for a
range of other damaged and lost items and about the way in which their claim had been
handled. They wished to receive further compensation and to be reimbursed for solicitor fees
theyd incurred as well as acknowledgment of service failings.
Baxendale maintained its position and said that it had made fair and reasonable settlement
offers and that it had provided a reasonable service. Miss S and Mr S remained dissatisfied
and referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss S and Mr Ss
complaint. She considered that the settlement offers were reasonable and in line with the
terms and conditions of the relevant policy. She didnt consider that it would be fair to ask
Baxendale to reimburse Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors fees.
Miss S and Mr S remain unhappy about the outcome of their complaint and the matter has 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2022, I 
issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint as follows; -
Whilst the timescales relating to this case are lengthy and the facts and circumstances are
complex, the key issues for decision are relatively self-contained. The key issues are firstly
whether Baxendale applied the terms and conditions of Miss S and Mr Ss Transit and
Storage Insurance policy in a fair and reasonable manner. The second issue is whether
Baxendale generally acted fairly and reasonably in the handling of Miss S and Mr Ss claim.
In both cases, Ive concluded that on balance it didnt do so in all respects, and Ill explain
why.
The specific wording of the relevant policy is the starting point in complaints of this nature.
The policy naturally provides cover from the time the household goods come into the care
and control of the removal company until theyre redelivered to the relevant destination
address. This is subject to certain limits, conditions and exclusions. The relevant provisions
state the following: -
Time limits for making a claim:
All Claims made under the Policy must be notified In Writing to [the removal company] within
the following time limits:
a) Within 7 (seven) days of delivery of the Goods
Failure to comply with these time limits could prejudice us and may result in the claim being
declined by us and all benefit under the Policy will be lost.
An extension to the time limit for reporting claims maybe agreed in writing prior to the
commencement of the Services. Whether an extension is granted, the length of the
extension, and the terms and conditions of any agreed extension, will be at our discretion.
We reserve the right to charge an additional premium in consideration for granting such
extension.
Basis of Settlement
Subject to the Terms of this Policy...we, can choose one of the following options to settle
your claim:
Pay you a cash settlement for the cost of repairs;
Arrange for repairs;
Pay you a cash settlement to reflect the damage and any loss appearance.
Replace the Goods with an item of similar quality if the Goods are a Total Loss;
Pay you a cash settlement for the Goods subject to the claim so you can replace them with
item(s) of a similar quality if the Goods are a Total Loss.
Repair
Where the Goods can be economically repaired, they will not be considered to be a Total
Loss and you cannot claim for a new replacement.
We may, at Our option, pay you a sum to cover the cost of repair.
However, the amount we will pay you will not exceed the amount we would have had to pay
our preferred restorer.
Alternatively, at our option, we may arrange to have the item/Goods repaired and we will pay
a third party to carry out the repair.
Replacement/Total Loss
If the Goods cannot be economically repaired, the Goods will be considered to be a Total
LossWe may, at our option either:
Pay you cash based on the full replacement cost of an Item of similar quality; or
If the Goods cannot be repaired or an equivalent replacement is not available, pay the
nearest cash equivalent or current market value of the Item at the time of the loss or
damage.
Wherewe offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but it is agreed that you
will receive a cash settlement, then the amount we will pay you will not exceed the amount
we would have had to pay our preferred supplier.
The basis of any settlement offer under this Policy is always atour option.
Salvage
If we agree to replace Goods or pay you a cash settlement to purchase replacements, the
Goods subject to the Claim, will become our property. The Goods must be released to [the
removal company] prior to the delivery of the replacements or prior the payment of any cashsettlement.
If the Goods are not released to [the removal company], the settlement will be reduced to
reflect the fact that you have retained possession of the Goods.
Clothing and linen
Claims for household linen and clothing including footwear, will not be subject to
replacement as new. The age, quality, degree of use and market value of the items will be
taken into consideration when settling the claim.
Matching pairs, sets or suites
If you make a claim for any lost or damaged Item, that forms part of a matching pair, set or
suite, we will pay you for the cost of repair or replacing the damaged or lost Item only. We
will not pay for altering, matching or replacing, any Item or part(s) which are not lost or
damaged and which form part of a set, suite, or other article of the same type, colour or
design.
High value items
High value item must be listed on the [the removal company] acceptance form. If an item is
not listed it will be assumed for the purpose of dealing with the claim that its value is less
than £500.
Our limit
The most we will pay for any claim is the Sum Insured.
Miss S and Mr S are clear that all their household goods were in good condition before being
taken into storage in 2017 by the specialised removal company and that nothing was marked
as damaged on the relevant itemised forms. Two years later, they organised delivery of their
household possessions to a new home. They said that in the meantime, the possessions
had been moved to other depots from the original storage depot without their knowledge.
When their goods arrived Miss S and Mr S said that there had been a catastrophic leak into
one of their containers. They said that; Everything in that container was either totally ruined,
or badly water damaged. Firstly, Miss S and Mr S said that they were given an unrealistic
period to make their claim, in view of the number of containers and possessions and the
extent of damage which was involved. Miss S and Mr S said that when they asked for an
extension of time, they were told that two weeks was the maximum permitted. They thought
that this was insufficient time to go through everything and to make a full claim. They
subsequently realised that books with an estimated value of nearly £2,000 had gone missing
during the relevant period. They thought it would have been impossible to discover this
within a two-week notification period, especially as they were not in the soaked container.
Miss S and Mr S have since produced a list of their total losses. Despite indicating that they
were happy with the packing and delivery at the time, they later realised that some of the 
work had been poor or careless. More recently, Miss S and Mr S have provided further
photographic and documentary evidence. They state: - Again this is evidence of a lack of
care in storage and general handling, whichmost likely occurred either when [the removal
company] were moving between storage locations or when [it] delivered to our new address.
They thought that it was evident that there had either been misloading or mis-storing of the
individually packed boxes.
Miss S and Mr S said that when they made initial contact with Baxendale, its representative,
said that Miss S and Mr S werent insured where damage was caused by mould. They felt
Baxendale were only interested in damage limitation in terms of how much it needed to pay
out, and that there was zero customer care. They also said that they received absolutely nosupport when it came to making our claim, particularly around trying to get repair quotes on
damaged property. They said that there were antiques that needed to be dealt with
immediately to prevent further degradation and loss of value but that no assistance was
offered or given by Baxendale.
They said that they had to make all of the effort themselves to move everything to and from
restorers and they thought that this was unacceptable. They felt that what happened was
due to the gross negligence of the removal company and theyd been left out of pocket.
They said: - A removal company shouldnt expect us to get all our damaged goods to
restorers, especially considering the amount of damaged goods that needed assessment,
and we only have one car. We repeatedly asked for help with this.
They said that almost all claim items were argued over even though they werent at fault and
even though theyd paid for the extra insurance cover: - we had to fight every step of the
way to get any kind of customer care, or a service wed paid for. They felt they were offered
minimal amounts for repair of higher value items, despite providing proof of value and either
had to accept Baxendales offers or surrender goods. Miss S and Mr S said that theyd
received no independent customer support and referenced what they considered to be the
close corporate connection between the specialist removal company and Baxendale. They
said that the removal company had only offered insurance through this one insurer.
Miss S and Mr S wished to stress that a final settlement had not yet been reached and only
part of their claim was closed out and for which theyd signed acceptance forms. They said
that there were a number of items for which the settlements offered were unacceptable.
They thought the logic behind them was incomprehensible and this was the reason for this
dispute. They said that they hadnt signed an acceptance form for those additional items
and the claim therefore remained open and unresolved. Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors letter of
June 2020 referred to five items which hadnt been settled. It said that four others had been
settled at an unacceptable level and under duress. Miss S and Mr S added that they now
considered theyd been under-compensated, and they also had: - the feeling of being bullied
into having to accept unsatisfactory offers.
They were also still waiting for one personal item to be collected as agreed, so that they
could be reimbursed for it. Miss S and Mr S also noted that there were many items
unclaimed for due to the two-week time-limit for making a claim. As to customer care, they
werent happy and felt that their e-mails were responded to slowly, and that they only
received responses on Friday evenings, to the point that it caused incredible stress. More
generally, Miss S and Mr S felt that Baxendale had provided an inadequate insurance 
service.
They referred to the cover for goods in storage being unilaterally raised by £5,000 and they
wished to be reimbursed the extra amount charged or would like to be compensated for the
correct raised amounts. Miss S and Mr S also referred to their crates being moved from the
original storage by the removal company without their knowledge and that during that move,
the water ingress to the container would have been obvious.
Miss S and Mr S said that the Guidance Notes / Insurance Booklet which theyd seen didnt
mention surrendering goods as salvage. They also asked how antiques could be replaced.
They thought that there was no formula behind offers made and that they were offered 25%
for more valuable items as opposed to 50% for lesser value items. They said that with
certain items, Baxendale had first said that the items were over-insured and then argued that
they were under-insured, yet the offer wasnt changed. They thought that focussing on
specific items was missing the bigger issue. They thought there had been minimal
movement from Baxendale after a year of correspondence.In summary, Miss S and Mr S said theyd lost a lot and that many of their possessions had
been ruined whilst in the care of the removal company which was stressful enough; without
having to fight for basic compensation. They also said theyd paid a lot of money over two
years to insure their goods correctly, yet they felt theyd been treated as if it was all their fault
and theyd had to justify their claim. They emphasised how frustrating the process had been.
In Baxendales response to the complaint, it noted that Miss S and Mr S rated the quality of
move in 2017 and 2019 as very good and in 2017 stated; Excellent service, very friendly.
Highly recommended. In 2019 however, the water damage to furniture and pictures on the
relevant form was noted. Baxendale said that at the outset, Miss S and Mr S signed 
standard acceptance forms, which included a demands and needs statement, confirming
that the customer had received and read the insurance guide and that the cover met their
needs. It said that following their report of damage, Miss S and Mr S provided a list of 33
items for which they wished to make a claim.
Baxendale accepted that it had made certain service errors. Firstly, it accepted that whilst
mould and mildew is excluded under the terms of the policy, it would normally make
enquires into the cause of this before a judgement was made on whether loss was covered. 
It apologised that this didnt happen. It considered that its communication flows had been 
satisfactory however and described its e-mail exchanges in detail. It noted the fact that
during these exchanges, interim payments of £1,904.30, £685 and £5,405 had been agreed
for certain items. It considered that it had adequately explained the basis of offers, especially
as to the items which remained outstanding.
It said that the policy explained the settlement options and: went into considerable detail as
to the information that is required and how the claim will be dealt with. It explained that items
were only recovered for salvage if there was some residual value in them, for example, an
electrical item could not be used again and would not be salvageable. It said that the full
value of other items was offered as appropriate, on the understanding that they were
required for salvage. However, it said that an alternative offer was made to recognise Miss S
and Mr Ss wish to retain the items. It considered that this was entirely consistent with the
terms of the policy and insurance practice. In the case of antiques, Baxendale said that if the
repair costs exceeded the value of the antique, it would be deemed to be a total loss. It said
that the fact that an item was an antique didnt always mean that it had significant value and
that there were many factors to consider such as condition, rarity, origin, age or demand.
Baxendale disagreed that Miss S and Mr S accepted interim payments under duress. It said
that payments for 30 of the 33 items claimed had been made and that by signing discharge
forms, Miss S and Mr S accepted settlement on a full and final basis, so that Baxendale
were discharged from any further liability. As to certain items which had been declared by
Miss S and Mr S to be high value, this included two items insured for £1,200 in total.
Although theyd obtained an estimate for repair which was higher than this value, it said that
its maximum liability was £1,200 and that this would be paid on the understanding that the
items were taken for salvage. As Miss S and Mr S wished to retain the items, Baxendale
offered an alternative cash settlement of £300 which was subsequently increased to £600
representing 50% of the declared value; in recognition of your dissatisfaction with the
offer....
Baxendale noted that further disputed items hadnt been listed by Miss S and Mr S as a high
value items and: - therefore it is assumed that its value does not exceed £500. The
estimated cost of repair was significantly higher than this figure. As Miss S and Mr S wished
to retain the items, Baxendale offered £500 and subsequently increased this offer to £700 in
total: in an attempt to resolve this matter.
With regard to one personal item, Baxendale stated that settlement had been agreed in thesum of £400, on the understanding that it was taken for salvage. It said that it hadnt
collected it, as it understood that Miss S and Mr S hadnt signed the discharge form. Once it
received the completed discharge form, it said that arrangements would be made to collect it
at a mutually convenient time and payment would then be made. As to Miss S and Mr Ss
complaint of inconsistent treatment of items, Baxendale stated that it took a number of
factors into account when dealing with a claim for a particular item so the approach for one
item may not be appropriate for another. For example, for certain clothing items, it had
concluded that whilst some may be beyond use, others could still be used.
Having considered all the relevant information and evidence in this matter, its clear that Miss
S and Mr S are extremely unhappy about the way in which the removal company, the loss
adjusters and also Baxendale as insurers handled this matter. Miss S and Mr S appreciated
that it was only the insurance aspect of their complaint which could be directed through this
service and that in itself was a source of frustration. I agree with Miss S and Mr S that a
complaint or proceedings against the specialist removal company, for what they term as
gross negligence or claims in relation to uninsured losses would be a matter outside the
services jurisdiction and therefore a matter for another forum.
I appreciate that Miss S and Mr S have been through a lengthy and upsetting series of
events as a result of their damage and loss. Damage occurred to household and personal
possessions, antiques and items of sentimental value and this will have been distressing. I
also note that theyd paid a considerable amount of money over two years to insure their
goods for the type of eventuality which occurred. However, its unfortunately an inevitable
part of an involved insurance claim of this nature, that discussions, justification and evidence
for claims need to be provided for individual items before an insurance company can
indemnify policy holders for evidenced loss. I understand that such a process can take time
and cause additional frustration for policy holders.
Ive dealt with each of the points of complaint raised by Miss S and Mr S and their solicitor
under separate headings as follows: -
Period for making claim
The policy requires lost or damaged items to be reported within 7 days and I appreciate that
Miss S and Mr S found it difficult to report all damaged items within this time-scale where the
overall number of items was considerable. I can understand that they needed additional
time. Baxendale increased this period to 14 days, and Ive seen no evidence that Miss S and
Mr S asked for a further extension of time following this. Ive noted from Miss S and Mr Ss
correspondence with Baxendale in 2019 that they say; wed like a bit more time than just 7
days please in order to go through our things properly as there is quite a bit of mould and
rust on a number of items seven days may not appear to be an unreasonable extension
in the light of the request for a bit more time. However, this has to be viewed in the context
of Miss S and Mr Ss understanding that two weeks would be the maximum permitted and
Ive no reason to doubt that this was their understanding and that they would therefore have
produced their list of claimed items with some haste.
Miss S and Mr Ss claim included 33 items and refers to specific damp damaged pictures
which were to be forwarded to a named firm of restorers for a restoration quote. They have
accepted sums in full and final settlement for most of these items and I dont consider that it
would be fair and reasonable for Baxendale to re-open these claims.
Miss S and Mr S however now claim for damage caused to a number of other paintings and
drawings. On a provisional basis, I can understand that it may only have been when theyd
received invoices for restoration from another firm in November 2019 that Miss S and Mr S
will have realised the true extent of the damage and loss. This is specifically the case forpaintings and drawings where the extent of water damage may not have been apparent at
the outset. In the circumstance, I consider that Miss S and Mr S were unfairly disadvantaged
by the relatively short timescale for these items. I also appreciate that from Baxendales
perspective, that by the time restoration to additional paintings and drawings took place, they
hadnt seen quotes or been able to assess the damage. It would then have been difficult to
pin-point the cause of all damage. There is no evidence that estimates or that a full report on
damage had been provided by the restorers prior to carrying out the restoration work.
The terms and conditions of the relevant policy are clear that a claim could be declined if the
time-limit for making a claim was not adhered to. Its a standard insurance provision so that
evidence of damage and loss can be ascertained at the earliest opportunity. With this
specific claim, involving specialist items, and specifically paintings and drawings however, I
cant say that two weeks was a sufficient or realistic period to enable Miss S and Mr S to
make a fully informed claim. I also note the photographic evidence which clearly shows that,
during the period of specialist removal and storage, there had been water ingress and
damage within the crate in which the paintings and drawings had been stored. On the
balance of probabilities, and on a provisional basis, I consider that its likely that at least
some of the damage to other paintings and drawings was caused by this water ingress. The
proportion of damage due to the existing age and condition of the items and the proportion of 
damage due to water ingress would however need to be established through obtaining a
formal report from the restorers.
Miss S and Mr S have also stated that a large number of books with an estimated value of
nearly £2,000 went missing whilst in the care of the removal company. Baxendale havent
offered a response in this respect other than to note the time-limit for claims which is
included in the policy. With regard to missing books, Miss S and Mr S have now itemised
these and provided photographic evidence of the items prior to the move. They state that as
the books hadnt been stored in the crate which had suffered water ingress and water
damage, they hadnt immediately realised that they were missing. 
Again, on a provisional basis and on the balance of probabilities, I consider that its likely that 
the books did go missing whilst in the care of the removals company and that it would be 
unfair and unreasonable for Baxendale to rely on a technical breach of the terms and 
conditions in this respect to decline to consider the claim. Ive already indicated that I accept  
that Miss S and Mr S initially thought that they were unable to claim for any individual items 
which werent claimed for within two weeks of delivery of their goods. In the case of the 
books however, it wouldnt have caused prejudice to Baxendales ability to investigate the 
claim whether Miss S and Mr S discovered the loss within the two week time-limit or some 
time afterwards.
In summary, its my provisional conclusion that Miss S and Mr S were led to believe that the
terms and conditions of the policy were immoveable once one short extension had been
provided. In the circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable that they would have thought that
they then had to abandon the remainder of their claim. In the circumstances, whilst I
appreciate that Baxendale has relied upon a clear term of the policy, and whilst there is no
evidence that Miss S and Mr S subsequently sought a further extension, I dont consider that
they were treated fairly and reasonably in all respects. Its likely that the true extent of Miss S
and Mr Ss insured loss due to an insured event, specifically regarding paintings, drawings
and books, was unfairly and unreasonably declined by Baxendale.
Service issues
Miss S and Mr S felt that theyd received poor customer care from Baxendale. I note
Baxendales apology for certain service errors. In particular it acknowledged and apologised
that its representative had indicated that their claim would be declined before making thenecessary and standard enquiries. I note that Miss S and Mr S had been looking for
Baxendale to acknowledge its failings. I agree that it was necessary for Baxendale to
apologise for this failing. I note than Baxendale did engage with the claim shortly after this
flawed initial response and so didnt significantly prejudice Miss S and Mr Ss claim.
As to the speed of response, Ive noted the volume of e-mail communication between the
parties and note the significant number of items being claimed for and discussed, however
Ive not seen evidence of serious response failures prior to deadlock in relation to the
settlement negotiations. In the circumstances I cant say that the manner or speed of
communication by Baxendale was unfair or unreasonable.
As to unilateral increase of the insurance cover by Baxendale, I note that in October 2017,
the removal company indicated that storage rental (and premiums) would increase and that
the level of cover would increase to £130,000 in total. By January 2018 however, it referred
to the level of cover being £125,000 as before, albeit that additional insurance premiums
were being charged. On balance, I consider that Baxendale had indeed raised the level of
cover to £130,000. Its unfortunate that this communication lacked clarity. I note however
that its October 2017 letter provided an opportunity for Miss S and Mr S to confirm revised
values in writing, and it doesnt appear that there was any further communication to increase
cover for any specific high value items. Unfortunately, if the increased premiums were paid
without further query at the relevant time, this isn't a matter for which I can now direct
reimbursement and its not possible to ascribe a specific increased insurance value to any
particular claim item, and so Im not minded to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
I agree with Miss S and Mr S that they would have received a better customer service had
Baxendale kept Miss S and Mr S informed of the fact that their household goods had been
moved to other depots by the removal company. Nevertheless, this is a matter which
concerns the removal company and doesnt merit the payment of an additional
compensatory award by the insurers under the policy.
Finally, as to Baxendales reliance upon its time-limit for making a claim, as stated above,
this was a clear provision in the policy and a limited extension was provided. Im satisfied
however that Miss S and Mr S were informed that two weeks would be the maximum
extension which would be allowed. In the light of the number and nature of specialist items
insured, on a provisional basis I consider that Baxendale could have provided a better
service and assistance, to acknowledge the need for time and support in obtaining specialist
reports into damage to paintings and drawings in the affected crate. In this respect, I
consider that a modest amount of additional compensation of £300 should be paid by
Baxendale to reflect this service failure and the additional stress and inconvenience this
would have caused in an already stressful situation.
Basis of settlement for outstanding claimed items
Settlement is yet to be reached upon a limited number of items. In its final response letter,
Baxendale provided an explanation for the basis of settlement for the remaining items.
Unfortunately for Miss S and Mr S, we wouldnt consider it unreasonable for an insurance
company to deem an item to be a total loss if repair costs for a particular item exceeded its
insured value as is the case for some of the remaining items.
Miss S and Mr S recognised that the policy terms and conditions allow for the approach
taken by Baxendale. They nevertheless feel aggrieved that they have been subjected to loss
and damage caused to items in the care of a specialist company and yet this isnt being
covered under their insurance policy. However, the fundamental starting point has to be
whether the insurer has applied the provisions of its insurance policy in an acceptable
manner in accordance with standard industry practice. In this case, I cant say that it wasinappropriate for Baxendale to have applied its policy terms to treat items as being beyond
economic repair. Its the case that in such policies, the insurer has discretion as to the
method of settlement as long as it exercises this discretion in a reasonable manner. If
repairs to an item insured for £600 would cost £750, an insurer wouldnt be expected to pay
£750 and would reasonably seek to recoup its losses through salvage of the damaged item.
Its appreciated that this causes difficulty where items have a value other than purely
financial value. In such cases, where the policyholder doesnt wish to relinquish the item,
then the settlement sum would inevitably be lower than the insured value or the repair cost.
In summary, I note that Baxendale offered to pay the full insured value of certain items
specified by Miss S and Mr S when they took out their policy with Baxendale. The policy
made it clear that this would be paid if items were surrendered to the insurers for salvage.
Miss S and Mr S didnt wish to surrender these items and Baxendale wasnt obliged to pay
this full value as the cost of repair exceeded the declared value. I have also considered each
of the items for which settlement is yet to be reached and consider that the declared values
for high value items is the maximum which will be paid out under the policy.
Miss S and Mr S also point to a list of items other than pictures where they estimate they say
theyd been unable to identify damage in time to make a valid claim. They referenced items
of furniture, clothes, silver and sundry items for which they considered the true loss to be just
under £4,000. Provisionally I dont consider that Baxendale acted unfairly or unreasonably in
declining to cover these additional items. I consider that any water damage would have been
visible from the outset and that it would have been reasonable to have claimed for these
particular items within the two-week time-limit provided by Baxendale. The policy provisions
regarding the limitations under the policy for matching suites and clothing are also clear. In
conclusion, I cant say that Baxendales application of the policy provisions or that the offers
for items which remain to be settled are unfair or unreasonable.
The deadlock in relation to one personal item is noted, however Baxendale has made it clear
that the item will be collected and £400 will be released on signature and return by Miss S
and Mr S of a discharge form and there is an assumption that this will therefore proceed
without further input from this service.
Finally, I appreciate that Miss S and Mr S will be disappointed as two years elapsed between
the items being taken into storage and the date of the claim, and they expected the value to
have increased. The value of antiques can decrease as well as increase however, and the
declared value is what the policy document commits the insurer to pay. Im also satisfied that
Baxendale was acting within the policy terms in offering settlements that reflected the age of
items of clothing and that it was fair that they hadnt replaced these items with new ones.
Additional matters
On the balance of probabilities and on the available evidence, I cant say that any
Acceptance and Discharge forms have been signed under duress or pressure and Miss S
and Mr S have clearly felt able to challenge settlement offers for other items in the strongest
terms. I also note that they consider that Baxendale should make a contribution towards their
solicitors costs. Again, its unfortunate that Miss S and Mr S have expended additional
significant sums in seeking legal advice and they ultimately ceased their instructions due to
these mounting costs. However, on a provisional basis, I dont consider that it would be
reasonable to require Baxendale to cover these costs as this provisional uphold decision
would have been issued whether or not such input had been sought.
Conclusion
I can appreciate that Miss S and Mr S are disappointed and frustrated that theyve notreceived the settlement figures they were hoping for following the very unfortunate damage
to some of their possessions whilst in the care of a specialist removal and storage company.
I can also appreciate the need for insurance companies to fully scrutinise significant claims
of this nature. Having carefully considered the terms and conditions of the insurance policy
however, on a provisional basis, I cant say that Baxendale have applied these in a fair and
reasonable manner in all respects. My provisional uphold decision therefore requires
Baxendale to re-consider specific items of claim which have been timed-out, namely,
paintings, drawings and books, in the light of the remaining provisions of the policy.
As to the quality of service provided by Baxendale, I can appreciate why Miss S and Mr S
rated the service as being very good in the relevant feedback form on delivery, before
realising the extent of the issues which emerged. Ive therefore discounted this rating by
Miss S and Mr S. Nevertheless, having identified certain service issues above, I cant say
that the majority of these should lead to additional compensation. Ive outlined above that as
to the time-limits imposed in relation to the paintings and drawings, Baxendale should have
provided a better service and support and I provisionally require payment of modest
compensation of £300 in this respect to reflect this service failure and the additional stress
and inconvenience this would have caused in an already stressful situation.
In conclusion, I appreciate the stress and anxiety caused by the incident itself and the 
ongoing correspondence. I also appreciate that damage and loss had occurred to a number 
of Miss S and Mr Ss possessions through no fault of their own whilst in the care of a
professional removal and storage company. What I must focus upon however are the
specific terms and conditions of the policy to cover for such eventualities and whether those
terms have been applied in a fair and reasonable manner. Ive provisionally set out the ways
in which I consider that Baxendale has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in
applying the terms. In the circumstances, I provisionally uphold Miss S and Mr Ss complaint
in the respects which have been detailed above.
In my provisional decision, I asked both the policy holders and Baxendale if they had any 
further comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S and Mr Ss made an additional comment following receipt of the provisional decision 
as follows; We just need to stress that the 2 week time limit to assess our property was 
given as a hard stop at the time. That was the maximum offered and it was made very clear 
that no more time would be given.
Baxendale disagreed with the provisional decision. In summary, it considered that the policy 
terms and conditions were at all times applied correctly and fairly and that there were no 
grounds for the complaint to be adjudged to the contrary. Baxendale considered there was 
a distinction between the claim for uninsured losses made by Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors to 
the removals company and the separate insurance claim. It was concerned that Miss S and 
Mr S may have conflated the issues.
The detailed submissions made by Baxendale in response to the provisional decision were 
as follows. Firstly, Baxendale said it was unaware that Miss S and Mr S had lost a box of 
books, or that there were damaged paintings/drawings in addition to the ones reported in 
March 2019. It said; -The first notification was when we received the PD.  In summary, it 
said that the claim for missing books and damaged pictures/drawings was never reported to Baxendale and did not form part of the insurance claim. It also stated that the claim for 
missing books and additional pictures/drawings was not made until June 2020, a year after 
the delivery of the goods, when they were included as part of a claim for uninsured losses 
against the removals company.
Baxendale was adamant that Miss S and Mr S had accepted the time limits for making a 
claim: Having taken up the offer of insurance and having had sight of the policy wording, 
they were on notice that the policy contained a time limit for reporting items lost or 
damaged. It stated that when Miss S and Mr S signed the removal companys acceptance 
forms, they confirmed that theyd read the policy terms and conditions and that it met their 
demands and needs. It also stated that no concerns or objections were raised regarding the 
time limit for reporting claims when they accepted the offer of cover.
It also maintained that under the policy wording issued in 2019, Miss S and Mr S had the 
option to request a longer time limit if they felt that seven days would not be long enough. It 
stated that no request was made, and no extension was agreed prior to redelivery. Following 
the redelivery, it stated that, although there was no obligation to do so and recognising that 
Mr and Mrs S needed more time, they were granted an additional seven days. It said that 
there is no record of the policy holders stating that the extension was not long enough or 
requesting a longer time limit. It said that any concerns regarding the extension were not 
shared at the relevant time and, was not questioned until June 2020 when the matter was 
raised by their solicitors.
Baxendale described the context and stated that the relevant containers were not full and 
that there were 17 boxes of books. It said: It would, in our view, have been possible for 
missing boxes to be identified within 14 days by simple reconciliation counting the number of 
boxes delivered against the number listed on the inventory. No missing items were reported 
to the removal company on redelivery, or in the days/weeks following, and then described 
one other missing item which had been claimed for and duly settled. Baxendale disputed 
that it had declined the claim for missing books on the grounds of late notification as it said 
that no claim has ever been submitted toBaxendale. 
It stated that it had only ever been aware of the 33 items listed by Miss S and Mr S on their 
claims list submitted in May 2019. It said that it therefore didnt understand how it had been 
judged to have acted unfairly and unreasonably: in relation to items which were not included 
in the insurance claim and of which we were unaware. It said that it likewise didnt decline 
the claim for pictures/drawings on the grounds of late notification.
Baxendale disagreed that its position wouldnt have been prejudiced as a result of the late 
notification of the missing books. It said: - The reporting of lost items is especially important 
as early notification can assist in the location of the missing items. Early notification makes it 
easier in gathering information from staff involved on the move which can assist in locating 
the items, searching vehicles, checking other consignments, alerting staff to look out for 
unidentified items on store or on vehicles and re-tracing operational stages.
 
Baxendale noted that a claim for additional pictures/drawings was included as part of the 
claim against the removals company by Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors in their letter of claim. It 
referred to a passage in that letter which confirmed that whilst solicitors considered the 14 
days insufficient, Mr and Mrs Ss claims had not been repudiated because of it. In 
summary it stated that the letter of claim from the solicitors made no allegations relating to 
part of their claim being declined by Baxendale on the grounds of late notification. 
As to legal costs, the decision concluded on a provisional basis, that it would not be 
reasonable for Baxendale to be required to cover these costs. Baxendale responded that it 
appreciated this conclusion, however it also wished to make it clear that Baxendale had no contact whatsoever from solicitors acting on behalf of Miss S and Mr S. It stated that the 
legal costs incurred related solely to the claim against the removals company for uninsured 
losses.
Finally, the provisional uphold decision requires Baxendale to re-consider specific items of 
claim which have been timed-out, namely, paintings, drawings and books, in the light of the 
remaining provisions of the policy. Baxendale stated that none of the claims submitted by 
Miss S and Mr S were timed out and that it hadnt turned any part of the claim down on the 
grounds of late notification. It repeated that, apart from the 33 items listed in the original 
claim list, Miss S and Mr S didnt submit a claim to Baxendale for paintings and drawings or 
books. 
Ive considered each of Baxendales points in turn, which Ive dealt with under three broad 
headings as follows: -
Whether Baxendale was aware of outstanding insurance claims, and whether it should now 
consider such claims?
On the balance of probabilities, I conclude that Baxendale was aware of the specific details 
of the outstanding claimed items, the nature of the damage or loss and the amounts claimed 
by June 2020. It said that it was unaware of the loss and damage to outstanding items and 
that the first notification was when it received the provisional decision. This is not however 
the case as explained in this final decision.
Baxendale also stated that the loss of books had not been reported to itself. It is the case 
that this loss wasnt reported within 14 days of delivery. Im satisfied however that the loss 
was clearly identified a year later, and that Miss S and Mr S wished to claim for it, whether 
from the removal company direct or from Baxendale. The reasons for this conclusion are 
provided below.
As Baxendale was placed on notice in June 2020 that this loss occurred, it should now 
properly consider the claim in accordance with the remaining provisions of Miss S and Mr 
Ss policy. I appreciate that Im requiring Baxendale to consider these items some three 
years following the date of loss. The provisional decision however notes the fact that this has 
been a protracted complaint and the facts and circumstances are complex. The dispute 
between the various parties in relation to the damage and loss has also involved solicitors. 
Invariably this has all caused delay.
Ive noted that there were a large number of items identified as lost or damaged and now 
claimed outside the 14-day extended time-limit. Its not the case however that Baxendale 
was unaware of this fact. Baxendale was put on notice that there were further claims being 
pursued in the policy holders correspondence, including the following: -
In August 2019, Baxendale was placed on notice that Miss S and Mr S were unhappy with 
various aspects of their claim and that they felt they had no choice but to engage a solicitors 
services. Again, in October 2019, they stated that they were instructing solicitors.
Although Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors letters in 2020 and 2021 were directed to the 
removals company, it made it clear that they were pursuing the insurance claim as well as 
any claim against the removals company. They considered the two to be integrally linked: -
Two weeks was not enough to go thorough one container of damaged goods which is why a 
number of items were missed and initially not claimed for.
Likewise, the removals company appeared to recognise its link to Baxendale and that the 
claims were integrally linked. In its letter in June 2020, it referred to the guidance notes for insurance and enclosed the correct guide; -The content of this guide may explain the 
approach of [Baxendale] and why the amounts they have offered for the outstanding items. 
Also; -It maybe the case that your clients are unhappy with the terms of settlement put 
forward by [Baxendale] but your clients were provided with a copy of the insurance at 
quotation stage and, by completing the acceptance, confirmed that the cover met their 
demands and needs. From what I have seen from your documentation, the offers made by 
[Baxendale] are consistent with the policy wording.
In September 2021, Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors were advised by the removals company to 
write directly to Baxendale about any complaint regarding the insurance aspects. If your 
clients have concerns that their insurance claim has not been dealt with correctly or that they 
have not been treated fairly then you have written to the wrong companyyou are at 
liberty.to write toBaxendale.
In any event, it would be fair and reasonable to expect a specialist removal and storage 
company to liaise with relevant insurers in the event of the receipt of correspondence from 
solicitors, making it clear that there were further losses being pursued, whether against the 
company or insurers. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that Baxendale were aware 
of this correspondence and knew of Miss S and Mr Ss on-going dissatisfaction, including 
dissatisfaction regarding outstanding items and claims.
Miss S and Mr S did, as advised by the removals company, write to Baxendale in October 
2021 and said that, due to the fact that the time limit was sadly only extended for a further 7 
days. Considering the fact we had 4 containers worth of goods to go through, one of which 
had been completely flooded, we were never going to be able to make a complete claim for 
all our damaged / missing goods as we simply didnt have enough time. Our loss was 
substantial from this move, as can be seen from the list attached.
They also wrote: - The goods dont, of course, include all the unclaimed-for items we lost 
due to the 14 day limitation to make our claim, noted on the list sent to you. Miss S and Mr S  
enclosed the detailed list of these total losses. Im therefore satisfied that they made it clear 
that they had specific, outstanding claims which theyd communicated to Baxendale.
In Baxendales response in October 2021, it stated it would look into full details of all 
correspondence surrounding the assessment of Miss S and Mr Ss claim. On receipt of this 
information I will review all aspects and revert to you in due course with my comments. 
Baxendales final response letter in November 2021 didnt however address the complete 
list attached and the ongoing complaint regarding additional damaged paintings and 
drawings and lost books. It simply referred to; Your total claim as submitted consisted of 33 
items and then referred to outstanding items from the list of 33. It added; I believe I have 
provided you with a full and comprehensive response to the points which you have raised 
but if you remain dissatisfied with my response then you can escalate this matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review of the issues.
Miss S and Mr Ss response was to thank Baxendale for addressing some of the open 
points in their claim and to advise that theyd taken the matter up with our service.
In the complaint to this service, Miss S and Mr S also stated; -We were given only 7 days to 
make our claim, which my husband managed to have extended to 2 weeks. This was a 
totally unrealistic amount of time considering the fact that we had 4 containers worth of 
goods / boxes to go through, and the amount of destroyed / damaged goods from the 1 
soaked container. Consequently we werent able to make a full claim for everything we had 
lost as we simply didnt have the time. List of total loss is available as in our solicitors letter.They also made it clear that they wanted Baxendale to put things right and wished it to; -Pay 
due compensation for the damage to our goods, and for the lost goods we were not given 
the time to claim for. Baxendale also received a copy of this complaint in November 2021.
In summary its noted that Baxendale didnt explicitly decline Miss S and Mr Ss claim in 
relation to the outstanding items. Nevertheless, Miss S and Mr S raised a complaint, first 
with the removals company, and then with Baxendale about the outstanding claim items. 
Baxendale didnt address or respond to the complaint about these items and therefore 
implicitly dismissed Miss S and Mr Ss claim and complaint.
Whether the policy time-limit for making a claim was reasonable in the circumstances?
Im satisfied that Miss S and Mr S accepted the terms and conditions of the policy, to include 
the time-limit provisions. On the balance of probabilities, I also consider that they hadnt 
complained that the extension was not sufficiently long until June 2020, after theyd 
instructed solicitors to act.
In the absence of relevant telephone records however, I accept that Miss S and Mr S had 
been led to believe that an additional seven days was the maximum extension that would be 
permitted. They understood this to be a hard stop and only challenged the reasonableness 
of the permitted timescales following solicitor intervention.
 
None of the above however alters the key issue as follows. This seven-day time limit policy 
provision may be entirely reasonable in a straightforward case. The provisional decision 
explains however that this is a non-standard case. It involved water ingress to a crate during 
the period of specialist storage, and the crate contained numerous specialist antique items.
 
Whereas an expert may have been able to rapidly identify water damage to an antique 
drawing or painting, it would not be fair or reasonable to expect an ordinary consumer to be 
able to do so. The evidence indicates that water damage had occurred to the paintings and 
drawings which are the subject of the outstanding claim. The repair invoice refers to 
humidification in some instances, which may be indicative of water damage and this needs 
to be properly considered by Baxendale. Im therefore satisfied that, on the balance of 
probabilities, water damage could only reasonably have become identifiable following expert 
examination. A time-limit of 14 days in order to make an, as yet, unidentifiable claim in May 
2019 would not be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In addition, certain service failings were identified in the provisional decision. Im satisfied 
that Miss S and Mr S didnt receive adequate support from Baxendale at the outset. Such 
reasonable support and assistance would involve assistance and advice to arrange for the 
full extent of water damage to specialist items to be urgently investigated. I also note that 
Baxendales representative wrongly asserted at the outset that damaged items due to mould 
were not covered under the policy. Its understandable in the circumstances that Miss S and 
Mr S were unclear about what they could and could not claim for in the circumstances.
The provisional decision also makes it clear that it was understandable why the loss of 
books wasnt discovered immediately as they were not in the soaked container. Its not 
therefore unreasonable that Miss S and Mr S devoted their attention to the container where 
there was obvious damage to numerous items and didnt immediately follow up this loss. 
The delay in notification is also not unreasonable in view of their initial understanding about 
a hard stop deadline to make a claim for specific items.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss S and Mr S would have claimed for these items much 
earlier but for their reasonable initial understanding that a further extension to the time-limit 
was non-negotiable. Further general points
As to Baxendales submission that its position was prejudiced as a result of the late 
notification of the missing books, this point is well made. Its accepted that late notification of 
a claim can create such practical and logistical problems and would have prejudiced early 
investigations. It would clearly have been preferable if this loss had been discovered within 
14 days. This does not alter my overall conclusion however, that it wasnt unreasonable that 
the policy holders time and attention was diverted to the numerous goods which were 
evidently water damaged. Also, it was not unreasonable to have initially taken the view that 
outstanding items could not be claimed, until solicitors may have advised otherwise. In 
balancing the accepted prejudice to both Baxendale and Miss S and Mr S, I conclude that 
greater prejudice was caused to the policyholders. It would therefore be fair and reasonable 
for Baxendale to now consider the outstanding items.
As to the distinction Baxendales makes between the claim for uninsured losses made by 
Miss S and Mr Ss solicitors to the removals company and the separate insurance claim, I 
consider this to be an artificial distinction. Baxendale stated that Miss S and Mr S were 
conflating separate matters. However as stated above, I consider that Baxendale was aware 
that Miss S and Mr S had communicated the fact that theyd suffered total losses which had 
not yet been recovered under the insurance claim. 
It was clear that Miss S and Mr S were pursuing their outstanding losses from either the 
removals company or their insurers. The reason for writing a complaint to Baxendale in such 
terms was the perception that theyd been timed-out of an insurance claim. I find that it 
would be unreasonable to apply the 14-day in this fact-sensitive case and that Baxendale 
should therefore now consider the claim for outstanding items under the policy. To be clear, 
Baxendale will therefore be required to consider specific items of claim which may otherwise 
have been timed-out, namely, paintings, drawings and books, in the light of the remaining 
provisions of the policy.
As to legal costs, its recognised that the solicitors letters were addressed to the removals 
company rather than to Baxendale. Nevertheless, Miss S and Mr S clearly felt they needed 
support from expert restorers and a firm of solicitors. Whilst I have rejected the claim for 
solicitors costs, I can understand why Miss S and Mr S felt they needed to turn to specialist 
advice and support in the light of their outstanding issues following the damage and loss 
which occurred. In turn, the solicitors had highlighted a view that two weeks was not enough 
to go thorough one container of damaged goods so that a number of items were missed and 
initially not claimed for.
Finally, Baxendale pointed out an error in the provisional decision, which indicated that it had 
arranged delivery of the goods. This point is agreed and noted. Delivery was arranged by the 
specialist removals and storage company.
Conclusion
I consider that Miss S and Mr S would have made their claim within the 14-day time limit had 
they been able to identify such loss within this time scale and had they not been given to 
believe that this was a hard stop deadline. Following receipt of legal support, they 
subsequently made it clear that it wished to claim for these items from Baxendale. It didnt 
address the claim, although its accepted that it didnt explicitly decline it. Baxendale had the 
opportunity to respond in its final response letter but didnt address the outstanding items 
raised by Miss S and Mr S in their list of total loss. Baxendale should now consider those 
claims notwithstanding its usual time limit provision.In conclusion, subject to the points noted and agreed as above, I remain satisfied that 
Baxendale has not acted fairly and reasonably in response to Miss S and Mr Ss complaint 
regarding their outstanding damaged paintings/drawings and lost books. In all the 
circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss S and Mr Ss complaint in the following
respects and provisionally require The Baxendale Insurance Company DAC to do the
following: -
- to consider Miss S and Mr Ss claim for those damaged paintings and drawings not already
settled, in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and following
receipt of a report from their restorers as to the nature and likely cause of damage.
-to consider Miss S and Mr Ss claim for the loss of their books in accordance with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
-to pay compensation in the sum of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman