DRN-4249784
The complaint
Mrs R complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in a bond issued by Basset &
Gold Plc (B&G Plc). Mrs R says she was misled that the bond was protected by the FSCS 
 but has since lost her money as the bond issuer has gone into administration. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs R invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond. For a period of 
time, sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bonds. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. 
Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs R interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted, and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs R actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mrs R and the investment in the bond
Mrs R invested a total of £10,000 in the bond. This followed phone discussions between Mrs 
R and a representative of BG Ltd. She said she was told by the representative that it was a 
protected investment, so went on to complete an online application.
The administrators of BG Ltd have provided some recordings of these discussions, but a 
number are missing  so I do not know the full detail of what was discussed. BG Ltds 
records include a log of applications records showing the following:
 
The certificate dated 19 January 2018 for the bond Mrs R invested in confirms £10,000 was 
paid into the B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond with annual rate of 6.7%. 
Type Date Type Date
Everyday Investor 2018-01-19 11:28:02 KYC Completed 2018-01-22 11:42:18
B&G T&C Confirmed 2018-01-19 11:28:51
ISA T&C Confirmed 2018-01-19 11:28:51
Completed Investor Questionnaire2018-01-19 11:28:15Investor Tags Legal TagsMrs R has told us at the time of this investment she had only held her savings in cash and 
other bonds she had taken out with B&G Plc. She says she applied online, and a BG Ltd 
relationship manager helped her complete the application. She said the only reason she 
invested was because she was told that the bond was covered by the FSCS and that there 
was no risk as everything was asset backed.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), sent an email
to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that nearly all the
money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender. 
Following action by the FCA, the pay day lender went into administration in March 2020 - 
and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs R has
not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Mrs Rs application was made.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mrs Rs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said Mrs R had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Rs
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Rs complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs R as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond 
for her - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with 
the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mrs R wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs R to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs R for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The acts the complaint is about took place after B&G Finance Ltd  an independent 
business with which Gallium had no relationship - became authorised. Once B&G 
Finance Ltd became authorised it took over from BG Ltd and so B&G Finance Ltd is 
responsible during this interim period, not Gallium. 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Rs complaint.
Regardless of label, Mrs R was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs R giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The investigator provided evidence to Gallium that supported that BG Ltd were involved in 
the arranging of investments during the interim period. He sent copies of correspondence 
from other cases we have reviewed that showed emails and paperwork in use at the time 
consistently set out prior to 1 March 2018 that they belonged to BG Ltd as an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. The investigator remained of the view the 
evidence shows BG Ltd promoted and arranged the B&G bond Mrs R took out on in
January 2018, and Gallium was responsible for the actions of BG Ltd here. 
Gallium didnt respond directly to the investigator, but it has also provided this service with a 
witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023 on the subject of who 
was responsible for arranging the bonds in the interim period, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments,
were conducted by BGF
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but
he recalls what was discussed.
This service has asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is 
said in the witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. We have not 
received a response to that request. However, for the reasons I have set out below, I think I 
can proceed with this particular complaint without that further information.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023  this is what I said:
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Mrs Rs complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Mrs Rs application came about  whether it was done online, over
the phone or a combination of the two. But, Im satisfied Mrs Rs complaint is about the 
arrangement of her investment in the bond and the exchanges she had with the 
representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In 
short Mrs R says she was misled during those exchanges.Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice,
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs Rs complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Mrs Rs complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Mrs Rs complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs R made her investment, the RAO
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the
application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls within the scope 
of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mrs R to invest in the bond, and had the 
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  19 January
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote the bonds to investors and 
that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. However  
save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points and in any event 
inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has provided no evidence to 
support this point.
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case.
Mrs R and her husband were existing clients of B&G Ltd, having taken out investments 
previously. They were given a dedicated relationship manager at B&G Ltd who contacted them periodically. Ive seen an email sent to them on 28 December 2017 from their 
relationship manager at BG Ltd. This invites them to invest in further bonds. In my view this 
supports that the arrangement of the investments they took out a few weeks later started 
with this contact from BG Ltd  and continued to be completed with the same relationship 
manager who was representing B&G Ltd.  
Further Ive listened to a call between Mrs R and the relationship manager on 19 January 
2018. Included in the discussion is a conversation about where to send the funds to open the 
bonds. During the call the relationship manager clearly says that the funds should be sent to 
BG Ltd and gives the London address that this business operates from. Im satisfied the 
evidence here relates to the arrangement of the bond subject to this complaint. Considering 
the various interactions in the application process with BG Ltd  it seems clear to me that the 
business arranging Mrs Rs bond was BG Ltd not BGF.  
While Im satisfied arrangements were being made for the investment, Ive also gone to 
consider who the relationship manager was working for at this time. If he was no longer 
working on behalf of BG Ltd, and after 2 January 2018 was instead working for BGF, I would 
have expected this to be explained. I say this given Mrs Rs interactions with BG Ltd were 
ongoing at that point. But Ive not seen evidence this happened, in fact to the contrary it 
seems more likely the relationship manager was still working on behalf of BG Ltd. 
Ive also reviewed the sample correspondence the investigator provided to Gallium to show 
examples of when BG Ltd were involved in arranging investments in bonds during the 
interim period. This includes copies of emails and paperwork in use around the same time as 
Mrs R took out her investment which consistently set out BG Ltd, acting as an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited, as the business involved in arranging the 
investments. This evidence along with the specific evidence mentioned above from the sale 
of Mrs Rs Bond in January 2018, supports that Gallium are responsible for the actions of BG 
Ltd when arranging Mrs Rs bond. 
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs R applied to invest through a website
process approved by BGF. But I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. 
As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd
The witness statement includes the following:
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset
and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset & Gold, which confirmed
that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now know that it is BGF that was the
entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to
discuss the best way to transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new
firm.
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the hotel
he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting took place on
11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]s
email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London the following Thursday,
which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we discussed at the meeting, but so
long after it took place I cannot now locate my notes. I do, however, recall what was
discussed.
At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] and I
agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial promotions withimmediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own regulated firm, BGF.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] also informed me that
BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and online application form, to reflect that
BGF was now responsible for the promotion of the bonds and arranging any investments
made in the Bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear,
and we have not been provided with any evidence to support what it says. But, even I accept
what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the time (and, to be
clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any event amount to
evidence BGF was responsible for Mrs Rs investment.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January
2018, as Gallium says, or that it had any involvement in Mrs Rs investment. All the evidence 
I have seen supports a contrary position. All in all, I am satisfied Mrs Rs complaint is about 
acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can 
be considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mrs Rs complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs R into certifying herself as belonging in a 
category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in 
the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall 
into. This was not treating Mrs R fairly or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed 
the rules and not misled Mrs R, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a 
restricted investor.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond was 
not an appropriate investment for Mrs R. In the circumstances she would either not have 
proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not 
promote the bond to her.
Gallium responded and provided further evidence for me to consider. It provided a general 
submission which contained some further evidence relating to what it descrbes as the 
interim period. This included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Represenative Monthly Complaince Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018. 
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
represenative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails. 
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds complaince officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed represenative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons. 
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month. 
Mrs R responded to say she accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first re-considered the interim period point. In doing so Ive considered the new 
evidence presented by Gallium alongside all of the other available evidence and arguments 
to decide whether we can look into Mrs Rs complaint  i.e. whether Gallium is responsible 
for the act(s) this complaint relates to. Ive not been persuaded to change my view on this 
point. 
Ive carefully considered the additional evidence Gallium has submitted but, in my view, this 
only further supports the conclusion that Gallium was responsible for making arrangements 
for Mrs R to invest in the bond and the complaint is therefore one we can consider against it. 
The 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in the witness 
statement includes the following: 
As you know we have applied for authorisation with a new company a few months ago and I 
am happy to inform you that we have now been authorised.
 
As discussed we will transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm, 
but wanted to discuss with you the best way to get this done. I will be in London next week 
on Thursday if you would like to meet.
 
As far as ISA manager goes, this will stay as is, as agreed.
 
Please let me know if you have any matters you think we should take into consideration and 
as always any advice and guidance will be greatly appreciated.In the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report the following 
questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify the firm 
as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And have you provided 
copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior 
to promotion and such categories kept on file? 
Each of these questions was answered Yes. 
Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a 
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs Rs 19 
January 2018 investment. 
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed 
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the 
activities of B&G Ltd, as it was B&G Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made 
promotions and arranged investments. 
The copy of the report we have been given also features a post-it note stuck to the report of 
all the investment business, which says: 
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to consider new 
loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as terminating end of Feb, but 
worth mentioning to them
Finally, I note the Call Monitoring List provided by Gallium shows it monitored 11 calls in 
January 2018  more than it had monitored in any previous month during its relationship with 
B&G Ltd. 
In my view this is all evidence B&G Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  
including the investment Mrs R made  at the time of this investment, and was doing so as 
an appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time. 
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence B&G Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by B&G Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time. 
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018. 
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from B&G Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such monitoring would be taking place. 
It also remains the case, as I set out in my provisional decision, that I have not seen any 
evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, in making the arrangements. B&G Ltd was carrying 
out business for which Gallium had accepted responsibility. So, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision, quoted above (which, to be clear forms part of this final decision) 
for the reasons given there, and the further reasons set out above.  
Turning to the merits of Mrs Rs complaint again, to confirm, for the reasons described in my 
provisional decision, I find Mrs R would either not have proceeded to make the investments 
or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations. So I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs R for her 
loss and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
R as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not taken out this 
investment. 
I take the view that Mrs R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
B&G Bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs R agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs R that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any income from the Bond should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs R would have invested 
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to her capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman