DRN-4349919
The complaint
Miss R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly granted her a credit 
card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2021 Miss R entered into an agreement with Santander to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. She was given an opening credit limit of £3,900. This was 
increased to £4,500 in July 2021. 
Miss R got into difficulty with meeting her monthly repayments towards the end of 2021. She  
agreed a payment arrangement with Santander that came to an end in November 2022 
when the card arrears were brought up to date.  
Miss R says that Santander didnt complete adequate affordability checks before opening 
her account. She says her financial situation was already stretched and that having the card 
led to it getting substantially worse. 
Santander said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Miss Rs 
financial circumstances before granting her the credit. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld from the opening of the account 
because he didnt consider that Miss R had enough disposable income to be in a position to 
sustainably afford the borrowing. 
Santander has withdrawn its main objections to the uphold finding but has queried how the 
redress should operate. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss R could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender like Santander to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Before granting the account, Santander looked into Miss Rs financial situation. Miss R told 
Santander she had a monthly income of just over £2,040 and that her monthly outgoings 
were £1,400. Based on that, she would have a monthly disposable income of around £650. 
Santander says it also carried out its own manual review based on this information. This 
included checking her credit history and finding no adverse markings on her credit file or 
signs of high levels of debt held elsewhere. Based on these factors, Santander granted 
Miss R the opening credit limit of £3,900. 
Whilst I think Santander gathered a reasonable amount of evidence about Miss Rs income 
and credit history, it doesnt automatically mean it made a lending decision that was fair 
overall. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint from the opening of the account because he didnt 
think the new credit could be sustainably maintained alongside what Miss R already owed on 
credit elsewhere plus her regular committed living expenditure each month. As part of his 
review, our investigator relied on the bank statements that Santander had also provided, 
given that Miss R banked with them. He concluded that Miss R would be left with around 
£500 each month to meet her credit card commitments which, if fully utilised, would leave 
her with negligible disposable income. I agree that Miss R would very likely be left with 
minimal disposable income each month were she to make use of all the credit available to 
her. 
Santander also pointed out that Miss R used only £3,200 of her initial credit by way of 
making a balance transfer, to pay off existing debt. But I consider that her subsequent 
balance transfers and spending history strongly suggests that Miss R was nevertheless 
becoming increasingly stretched financially.
It follows that I agree with our investigator that its very likely that Miss R wouldnt have had 
enough disposable income if she were to be sustainably managing her new credit card 
alongside her existing significant level of financial commitments. I think it would have been 
proportionate for Santander to have gained a more thorough and accurate understanding of 
Miss Rs financial circumstances before granting her the credit. It follows that I dont think 
Santander should have granted Miss R this credit. 
Ive seen that Santander, having accepted that the credit ought not to have been granted, 
have queried the appropriate way to apply redress, suggesting that this service might wish to 
liaise with Santanders collections department going forwards with regard to Miss Rs 
repayment arrangements. 
I understand that Miss Rs account remains up to date with ie with no arrears, and that 
Miss R is working with Santanders collections department to ensure there isnt a further 
arrears build up. I therefore think our standard redress for this type of complaint  as set out 
below  can be properly applied without difficulty. 
As Santander correctly suggests, it should be possible to refund any interest and charges 
that have been applied to the account, subject to any refunds already made or repayment 
plans that have been agreed. And I see no reason why the current arrangement with Santanders collections department ought not to continue, at least until such time as her 
balance has been cleared. Santander can then remove any adverse information from the 
credit file relating to the account. In the meantime, it remains open to Miss R to put forward 
any further settlement offers with a view to clearing, or expediting the clearance of her 
outstanding balance.
I am therefore setting out redress below thats in line with what our investigator set out in his 
uphold view letter. 
Putting things right  what Santander needs to do
As I dont think Santander ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss R should 
pay back the amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, Santander should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss R along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Santander should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Miss Rs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Santander should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss R for the remaining amount. Once Miss R 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman