DRN-4344676
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement he received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Admiral after his car 
was stolen.
Admiral offered Mr C a settlement of £48,490 (minus the policy excess). Mr C didnt think 
Admirals settlement offer was sufficient to allow him to buy a similar car. He raised a 
complaint, but Admiral maintained his position. So, Mr C asked our service to consider the 
matter.
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He reviewed four industry trade 
guides and concluded that Admirals settlement was too low. He recommended Admiral 
increase the valuation to an average of the four guides and increase the settlement 
accordingly. He also recommended Admiral pay Mr C interest on the additional payment.
Admiral disagreed with our investigators outcome. It thought the highest trade guide value 
should be considered an outlier. It said it was willing to increase the valuation to an average 
of the remaining three guides. But it wasnt willing to pay the amount our investigator had 
recommended. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say the most Admiral will pay to settle a claim for loss or damage to a 
vehicle is the market value of the vehicle. 
Market value is defined as: The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral used two trade guides to value Mr Cs car. Its provided screenshots of the 
valuations which are showing as £48,000 and £48,980. Admirals settlement was based on 
an average of the two guides.
Our service has carried out our own vehicle valuation checks on Mr Cs vehicle, using four 
trade guides. These valuations are showing as £47,000, £48,390, £54,944 and £58,228. The 
average of the four valuations is £52,140.50.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr C was likely 
to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a vehicle.
Admiral says its common for the two trade guides giving the lowest valuations to be similar 
due to them both extracting data from actual selling prices. It is also common for the two 
other trade guides to be similar due to them extracting data using advertised prices. It says 
its willing to include the second highest guide to provide Mr C with a fair valuation. However, 
the highest guide is clearly much higher than this and unexplainably so. 
Mr C has commented that he feels the settlement should be based on the two trade guides 
giving the highest valuations. He believes these values are more likely to be accurate as 
they are from car retailers.
Wed normally agree an insurers valuation is fair if its in the range of the guides. However, if 
an offer is at the low end of the guides we use, we might consider it fair and reasonable to 
tell an insurer to base its settlement on an average of all the guides. This is because an 
insurer needs to use a fair market value and an offer at the lower end of the guides is 
unlikely to be enough for a consumer to replace their vehicle with one thats like for like.
I appreciate Admiral believes we should disregard the highest guide value because the 
difference between that and the second highest is £3,284. However, the difference between 
the two middle values is around double this, and the range of all of the values is around 
£11,000. So, Im not persuaded that the highest value should be considered an outlier.
I think an average of all four guides is more likely to reflect a fair market value for the vehicle. 
So, Admiral should increase the settlement to £52,140.50 (less the policy excess) and apply 
interest to compensate Mr C for the time hes been deprived of the money.
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Pay Mr C £3,650.50 and
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* from the date the original settlement 
was paid until the date the additional amount is paid.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman