DRN-3850970
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway (MW). 
Mrs F has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mrs 
F in my decision.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs F acquired a used car with a hire purchase agreement from MW. The 
car was registered in December 2013, which means it was about seven years and eight 
months old, and had travelled 65,359 miles when it was supplied to Mrs F. The cash price of 
the car was £6,995 which was also the total amount financed on the agreement.
Mrs F said that around three weeks after being supplied the car she noticed loud rattling 
noises when the engine was being started, so she took it back to the dealer. Mrs F said the 
dealer wasnt able to replicate the issue, so after bringing it back to them on around five 
occasions the dealer arranged for a third-party garage, which Ill refer to as garage A, to 
carry out some works. The invoice from garage A shows they replaced a bearing and the 
second gear synchromesh, however Mrs F said it didnt fix the problem. 
Mrs F complained to MW about the issues with her car. Mrs F provided a diagnostic report 
dated 31 August 2022, from another garage which Ill refer to as garage B. The diagnostic 
advised In our opinion this has been the outstanding issue from day one as to why the start 
stop wasn't working properly because the dual mass flywheel needed changing. If this had 
been changed it would have solved the problem.
In an email to the dealer dated 5 September 2022, Mrs F requested a rejection of the car 
due to the issues she experienced with it.
MW issued their final response to Mrs Fs complaint which they didnt uphold. In 
consideration of the diagnostic from garage B, MW arranged an independent inspection of 
the car which was carried out on 20 September 2022. The independent inspection report 
concluded that the issues were caused by the dual mass flywheel, and put its failure down to 
in-service wear and tear. 
Unhappy with their decision, Mrs F brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Fs complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator 
found there wasnt enough evidence to say that the issues with the car was present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mrs F.
Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators view, so she asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MW is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that MW supplied Mrs F with a car that was seven years and eight 
months old, which had travelled 65,359 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car 
with lower mileage; and that thered likely be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. I also 
think its reasonable to expect thered be an increased risk of the car needing some repair or 
maintenance sooner than if it was less road worn.
From the information provided Im satisfied there was an issue with the cars dual mass 
flywheel. This is apparent from the independent inspection report which advised: A very loud 
rattle and judder came from the engine bay and the symptoms are consistent with the dual 
mass flywheel having reached the end of its in-service life. The report also added: The 
vehicle is currently not fit for regular use on the public highway. 
The report from garage B advised: Upon inspection, found flywheel has excess play. Will 
require gearbox removal and new flywheel, bolts, clutch and bearing. Having found the dual 
mass flywheel was failing, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of 
supply. 
The invoice from garage A, detailing the replacement of the bearings and synchromesh 
appears to have been created in February 2022 which was about six months after Mrs F 
acquired the car. MW system notes show that Mrs F reported the issues to them in March 
2022, and that in May and August of 2022 Mrs F complained to them about it. So, in 
consideration of when MW were made aware of the issues, I dont think it was unreasonable 
that Mrs F was asked to show that the problem was present when the car was supplied to 
her.The diagnostic from garage B, advised the car required a new flywheel, bolts, clutch and 
bearing. However, it also added: In our opinion, this has been the outstanding issue from 
day one as to why the start stop wasnt working properly, because the dual mass flywheel 
needed changing. If this had been changed, it would have solved the problem.
In consideration of this, MW arranged for an independent inspection of the car which also 
found that the flywheel needed to be replaced. The independent inspection report advised:
The vehicle is currently not fit for regular use on the public highway; the symptoms are 
consistent with the dual mass flywheel having reached the end of its in-service life.
 
It also said that replacing the dual mass flywheel on a vehicle with the mileage of Mrs Fs car 
wouldnt be considered as unusual, but as normal in-service wear and tear and not 
premature.
The diagnostic from garage B and the independent inspection report both arrived at the 
same conclusion that the flywheel needed replacing, and although the diagnostic from 
garage B suggests if it had been replaced from the start it would have solved the problem, it 
doesnt specify that it was inherently faulty when the car was supplied to Mrs F. I find that the 
diagnostic is suggesting an earlier replacement would have prevented the component from 
becoming increasingly worn through further use. From the evidence provided Im persuaded 
that the component was subject to wear and tear which resulted in its failure.
The mileage recorded on the independent inspection report and the diagnostic provided by 
garage B, were both in excess of 10,000 miles more than when the car was supplied to Mrs 
F. This shows, Mrs F was able to have a significant level of usage. And considering the 
independent inspection report advised the car was not fit for regular use, Im satisfied that 
the usage supports the failure of the dual mass flywheel being caused by in-service wear 
and tear and reaching the end of its natural life.
In an email to our investigator Mrs F said that she noticed the issues with the start stop 
function around three weeks after being supplied the car. I recognise this could be seen as 
the car failing at that point. However, Mrs F admitted the dealer wasnt able to replicate the 
issue, despite a number of attempts. In addition, Mrs F was able to have a significant 
amount of usage in the car before it was deemed not fit for use. So, Im not persuaded the 
car was inherently faulty at the point of supply.
In reference to the previous repair attempt by garage A, the independent inspection report 
said, It should be noted that the wear to the dual mass flywheel is not associated with a 
gearbox replacement. So, Im satisfied the previous works were not the cause of the cars 
failure.
I acknowledge Mrs Fs email to our investigator in October 2022, where she says she was 
told by two experienced mechanics that the flywheel couldnt come loose under normal wear 
and tear, however Ive seen no evidence that the mechanics Mrs F referred to, have carried 
out an inspection of the car and provided a diagnostic to support what Mrs F has said.
The independent inspection was carried out by a professional independent vehicle 
inspection and assessing company. Ive been given no reason to doubt their professionalism 
or capabilities, and so as Ive not seen anything to persuade me that the car was faulty when 
it was supplied to Mrs F, I dont require MW to take any action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as 
Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman