DRN-3042400
The complaint
Miss K had motor insurance arranged by Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings). 
She complains about how Hastings dealt with a change of address on her policy.
What happened
Miss K rang Hastings and reported a change of address. After speaking to a call handler 
she said shed make the change online. However when she went to do so the address 
had already been changed. Hastings then told Miss K her insurance would be cancelled. 
Miss K had to make numerous phone calls to sort this out, and also thought she was 
uninsured.
Miss K complained to Hastings. Hastings upheld her complaint, saying it had provided her 
with inadequate service. Hastings said the confusion about the change of address 
shouldve been sorted out in the phone calls, and Miss K shouldve received a promised 
call back.
Hastings apologised and paid Miss K £100 compensation.
Miss K wasnt happy with Hastings response and complained to this service. She also 
complained Hastings had breached the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) as 
her address was changed without her permission. Our investigator didnt think that 
Hastings needed to do anything more, as it had already paid her £100, which he thought 
was fair. The investigator said he couldnt look into whether there had been a data breach 
and suggested Miss K contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about this.
Miss K wasnt happy with this response and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Miss K doesnt feel the amount of compensation was right and she also wants 
compensation for taking taxis when she couldnt use her car. Miss K also complains 
GDPR was breached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
On 11 August 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said  
Ive listened to recordings of a number of calls between Miss K and Hastings. In the first 
call, Miss K said she wanted to cancel her policy as she had found cheaper insurance 
elsewhere.
She said shed moved and wanted to be sure the cancellation documents would reach 
her. However when she was told thered be a fee to cancel her policy, Miss K decided to 
let it run. She told the call handler shed change her address online. The call handler 
explained if the address was not changed within seven days the policy would be 
cancelled.
Miss K logged in to her online insurance account and saw that the address was 
already showing as her new address. She therefore didnt think she needed to do 
anything more.
Then Hastings wrote to Miss K. I have seen a copy of the letter, which 
says - Sorry, we can no longer insure you.
We recently checked your policy and found:
Your circumstances have changed, or are different from what you originally stated.
The letter goes on to say that the policy would be cancelled on a date seven days from 
the date of the letter, and Miss K would need to insure her car with another provider if 
she wanted to keep on using it. The letter was sent to Miss Ks new address.
The day before the policy cancellation date Miss K rang Hastings again. She explained 
what had happened and said she wanted to complain. Miss K was asked for her address 
and gave her new one. The call handler said that was not the address Hastings had.
Miss K said she had to be at work the next day and asked if she was still insured. The 
call handler said not until this was sorted out. The call handler said they would aim to 
sort it out and call back in 24 hours, and asked Miss K if she could car pool or use public 
transport. Miss K asked if Hastings would pay for a taxi, and the call handler said yes if 
Hastings was found to be at fault.
Later that day Miss K called Hastings again. She explained again what had happened 
and said there had been a GDPR/data protection breach. The call handler said a 
complaint had been registered and they couldnt do anything to the policy while it was 
with customer relations. The call handler said the policy wouldnt cancel until things were 
resolved.
There are a number of further call recordings. In one call the call handler said they could 
see there were two promised call backs which didnt happen plus Miss K was on hold 
during one call for 35-40 minutes, and for 15-20 minutes on another. The call handler 
offered £100 compensation. £31.68 was credited to Miss Ks insurance account to cover 
the cost of changing the policy, which I understand was £11.68 premium increase plus 
£20.00 amendment fee. The remaining £68.32 was paid to Miss K.
I have listened to call recordings between Hastings and Miss K totalling approximately an 
hour and three quarters. In addition Hastings accepts she was kept on hold for around 
another hour. Miss Ks query was very straightforward and should have been dealt with in 
the original call. Instead Miss K was told her insurance would be cancelled, she thought 
she was unable to use her car, and she had to make a number of phone calls to sort 
things out. In the phone calls Ive listened to, Miss K had to explain repeatedly what had 
happened.
Regarding the taxi fares, Hastings says Miss K was never actually uninsured, but it is 
clear that there was a short period of time when she believed she was without 
insurance. From the cancellation letter and one of the phone calls I think this was a 
reasonable belief. Time has passed and Miss K isnt sure exactly how much she spent 
on taxis, and she doesnt have receipts, but nonetheless I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Hastings to compensate Miss K for this.
Finally, Miss K complains that Hastings breached GDPR by changing her address on its computer system from her old to her new address and back again without her permission. 
This service cant decide if there has been a GDPR breach, only the ICO can decide this. 
However this service can look at compensation for these sorts of issues. In the first phone 
call Miss K clearly said that she would change her address online. The call handler must 
have understood this as they told her she must do this within seven days. However 
someone at Hastings then changed the address.
Hastings has accepted it provided Miss K with inadequate service and paid her £100. 
On balance I dont think this was a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Miss K 
for her trouble and upset and her taxi fares. I think Hastings should pay Miss K a 
further £100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K and Hastings have both confirmed they have received my provisional decision but 
have not made any further comments. Having thought about the circumstance once again, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Miss K a further £100 to 
compensate her for the cost of taxis when she believed she wasnt insured and for 
her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman