DRN-3119881
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Deguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) handled his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance claim.
All references in this decision to Mapfre include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr M contacted Mapfre in September 2020 to tell it his car had been written off by his motor 
insurer. He wanted to claim on his GAP insurance policy to help him bridge the gap between 
the motor insurers settlement  paid in December 2020  and the amount still outstanding 
on his car finance.
Mapfre investigated the claim and, in March 2021, offered Mr M £1,810.51 in settlement of 
his GAP claim. 
Unhappy with Mapfres offer, believing it to be too low because it didnt cover the outstanding 
car finance in full, Mr M complained. Mapfre set out to Mr B how it had worked out his claim 
payment and confirmed that, in its view, the payment was correct. It noted that Mr B was 
also unhappy with how long it had taken to pay the claim. For that it apologised but said the 
COVID-19 pandemic had affected its operations and reduced capacity to the extent that it 
was prioritising claims from key workers and vulnerable consumers over other customers. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They said Mapfre had fairly 
worked out what Mr B was due under the policy terms and conditions. They noted the delay 
in paying the claim but thought it was understandable given the circumstances of the claim 
and the likely effects of the pandemic on its service levels.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he took the policy out to avoid 
going into debt if his car was written off and yet he still had a shortfall to cover with his 
finance company even after Mapfre had paid the claim.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, in this decision Ive not looked at how the GAP policy was sold to Mr M. Thats 
for him to take up with the seller of the policy if he chooses to and if he hasnt done so 
already. Instead, Ive focussed on the actions of Mapfre as the insurer thats ultimately 
responsible for his claim and how it was dealt with. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think the starting point is to see what the policy terms and conditions say about how claims 
such as Mr Ms will be settled. Among other things, they say:
Total Loss Cover
 this policy will cover the greater of either:
a) The difference between the Motor Insurance Settlement and the Net Invoice 
Price of the Insured Vehicle, or;
b)If the Insured Vehicle is the subject of a Finance Agreement, the difference 
between the Motor Insurance Settlement and the Finance Early Settlement 
Balance payable to the Finance Company at the date of Total Loss
The policy goes on to explain it will also pay Mr M £500 if his cars declared a total loss 
(called total loss expenses) and up to £350 towards the cost of his car insurance policy 
excess (called motor insurance excess contribution). 
Looking at the payment Mapfre made for total loss and Mr Ms excess first, Im satisfied this 
were made fairly and in line with the policy terms. I gather Mr Ms actual policy excess was 
more than £350 but the terms of the GAP policy are clear that any payment made under that 
head of cover wont exceed £350. So, I dont think Mapfre owes Mr M any more in that 
regard.
More contentious was Mapfres offer for total loss cover. One of the difficulties in Mapfre 
assessing the claim was that no early settlement balance for the car finance for the time in 
question was received despite Mapfres requests. So, using the information shown on 
Mr Ms credit agreement when he bought the car, it calculated the early settlement balance  
£12,070.51  for itself. Using the car value as used by Mr Ms car insurer - £11,110  Mapfre 
calculated the amount owed for the total loss claim as £960.51.
Mr M says that leaves him with a shortfall on his car finance but I think Mapfres worked out 
the claim payment fairly given the available information. Its worth emphasising to Mr M that, 
for example, his car finance included the GAP insurance premium of £399 and an extended 
warranty costing £299. 
The policy terms say, among other things, the policy doesnt cover insurance premiums 
(including the GAP premium) or warranties. So, neither of the above items is covered under 
the GAP policy and that would explain the shortfall Mr Ms unhappy about. 
Overall, I think Mapfres settlement offer was fair and that it doesnt need to pay Mr M any 
more. 
I recognise that Mr Ms also unhappy with how long it took Mapfre to deal with the claim. I 
see that he contacted it about claiming in September 2020 and that the settlement offer was 
made in March 2021. I agree that was a long time for Mr M to have to wait for a decision, but 
I think there were circumstances beyond Mapfres control that contributed to the delay. For 
example, Mapfre could do little until Mr Ms car insurer had finalised its claim and confirmed 
what it deemed to be the cars value at the relevant time. That didnt happen until 
December 2020. 
In addition, there were other issues that Mapfre reasonably wanted to look into, such as 
trying to obtain confirmation of the early settlement balance from the material time and 
confirming Mr Ms cars correct number plate. 
Taking all of that into account, together with the likelihood of the pandemic adversely affecting its operations, I dont think Mapfre unduly delayed the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman