DRN-1654502
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should refund the fees he paid after 
his account was changed to a Current Account with Tech Pack in December 2015.
What happened
Mr J took out a First Additions account with Barclays in February 2007 for which he paid a 
monthly fee. 
Barclays changed Mr Js account to a Current Account with Tech Pack (CATP) in December 
2015 for which he also paid a monthly fee.
Mr J complained to Barclays that the accounts were mis-sold.
Barclays upheld Mr Js complaint about the sale of the First Additions account and has 
refunded his fees up to December 2015. 
But Barclays says the change to the CATP in December 2015 was done appropriately and 
says it will not refund the fees from December 2015 onwards.
Our adjudicator investigated the case and concluded that Barclays should uphold all of Mr 
Js complaint and refund the fees for the CATP from December 2015 until the account was 
downgraded as well.
Barclays disagrees so the case has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. For clarity this decision is 
only about the change of the account to a Current Account with Tech Pack (CATP) in 
December 2015, as Barclays has already upheld Mr Js complaint about the sale of the 
Additions Account in February 2007.
Having looked at the evidence from both sides Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. I say 
this for the following reasons.
Mr J complained about the sale of the Additions Account in February 2007 saying that he 
couldnt speak English and didnt know a fee free account was available. In Mr Js country of 
origin, bank accounts incurred a fee. Barclays upheld Mr Js complaint and refunded his 
fees. 
I think Mr J has been consistent in his testimony that he still could not speak good English in 
2015. And the manner of his making this written complaint through a representative; and the 
record of his verbal response to Barclays phone call to him about his complaint, are 
consistent with this. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr J wasnt a good English 
speaker in 2015.
When the account change happened in 2015, I agree with Barclays that in their first letter to 
him, the option of a fee free account would be likely to be clear to an English speaker. 
But Mr J was in a position where he doesnt appear to have been aware of fee free 
accounts. And he was used to being notified of fee changes. So, I think its more likely than 
not that he wouldnt have found a letter about a fee change to be unusual. 
So, when he received the first letter about the change in 2015, I dont think he would have 
been looking for the option of a fee free account, and I dont think the letter was laid out in a 
way that was sufficient for a poor English speaker to clearly determine that such was 
available.
So, I think its more likely than not following the original mis-sale, Barclays didnt do enough 
in 2015 to draw Mr Js attention to the fee free option and he lost out as a result.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to: 
Pay Mr J the amount Mr J paid each month for the CATP.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J has saved money because of a better rate on his overdraft or any loan by having 
the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mr J saved, it may 
deduct his savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the two 
points above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to Mr J how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
redress to Mr J as outlined in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman