DRN-2877654
The complaint
Mr M complains that he received unsuitable advice from Craig Mitchell to invest in a green 
energy bond. He says the investment exposed him to more risk than he was prepared to 
take. He never received the promised returns and has lost all the capital he invested. 
Your text here
What happened
In November 2016, Mr M invested £10,000 in a green energy bond. He says he was advised 
and encouraged by Craig Mitchell to invest. He says Craig Mitchell told him he would earn 
12.5% interest after six month and then he would earn 6.25% every three months after this. 
And then after three years he would get his money back. 
When Mr M didnt receive an interest payment he was expecting, he contacted Craig 
Mitchell. Mr M said he only received one payment of £625 in the four years he has been 
invested. 
Since then Mr M has received various updates from third parties regarding delays in issuing 
the payments. But he has received no further interest and his capital hasnt been returned to 
him. 
This service passed Mr Ms complaint to Craig Mitchell, but he didnt receive a response 
within the required timescale. So, Mr M asked us to investigate his complaint and provide an 
independent assessment on the advice he received. 
Craig Mitchell didnt respond to our investigators requests for information about the advice 
or provide any form of defence to the complaint. So, our investigator issued her findings 
based on the information she had received from Mr M. 
In summary she wasnt satisfied that the investment advice met Mr Ms objectives, attitude to 
risk or ability to bear losses. She hadnt seen anything to support the reasons for the 
recommendation to invest in the bond. Based on the limited documents available, she 
viewed the investment as very high risk in nature. She didnt find reason to think Mr M would 
have understood or was prepared to take the level of risk. She also didnt believe that Mr M 
had the capacity to bear any losses due to his circumstances. She recommended Craig 
Mitchell compensate Mr M by comparing the performance of his investment with that of a 
benchmark that she felt better represented Mr Ms risk appetite  and asked Craig Mitchell to 
pay the difference between the two. 
Mr M accepted the investigators opinion.
Craig Mitchell responded to the investigators assessment. In summary it said:
During numerous discussions, Mr M explained he was unhappy about the 
performance of his ISA and asked the principal of Craig Michell to look at alternative 
investments for him. 
At the time of advice, Craig Mitchell was only authorised to advise on unregulated 
investment products and the difference between regulated investments and 
unregulated investments was explained to Mr M. He said he wanted to receive 
advice and recommendations on unregulated Investments.
In Autumn 2016, Mr M said he wanted to invest a sum of £10,000. He wanted an 
investment that produced an income. Various investment vehicles were discussed, 
but he chose the green energy bond. So, he completed an application and submitted 
it to a processing company for the investment to be made.   
It doesnt not have any documents such as the fact find, review, 
recommendations/reasons why letter or any meeting notes to support its testimony. 
All the documentation was submitted to the company who processed Mr M's 
application. It was promised the original documents would be returned plus a copy of 
the recommendations/reasons why letter. But despite chasing the processing 
company, it never returned the information - so its not available. 
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited information from the time Mr M received advice. Mr M has provided a copy 
of an application form that details the investment he was taking out. Within this document is 
declaration which details Craig Mitchell as the authorised advisor. This is signed and 
confirms that the regulators rules and guidance were followed in assessing the investment 
as suitable for Mr M. But Craig Mitchell says it doesnt hold a fact find or reasons why letter 
to show as evidence to support the recommendation. 
Craig Mitchell says that it was expecting the processing company to return the fact find but 
didnt and also that this company would produce a reasons why letter  but it didnt. The 
possibilities that arise from this are either that its conclusion lacked reasoning or the reasons 
behind the conclusion were not recorded and/or shared with Mr M in writing. In either case, 
Craig Mitchell has been unable to justify why it concluded that the bond was suitable for Mr 
M.
So, Ive looked at what evidence I do have to consider whether (or not) the bond was 
suitable for Mr M. That evidence is limited, but I consider it sufficient, especially as the 
investment Mr M made is unregulated  which, broadly speaking, is not commonly a suitable 
type of investment for many (or most) retail investors. This means good reasons and 
particular circumstances would probably have been needed to justify such an investment.
Mr M says he had an existing relationship with Craig Mitchell as he provided pension advice 
through his employer. He says Craig Mitchell persuaded him to take up the investment 
opportunity but didnt tell him it was a high-risk investment. Mr M has provided the following 
information about his circumstances at the time. He was employed. His main outgoing were 
a mortgage and household bills. He had savings of around £19,000 at the time. He had a 
stocks and shares ISA (held for around nine years) which he used to fund this investment. 
The £10,000 investment was a significant proportion of his available funds. He had no 
investment experience apart from his ISA and not previously invested in unregulated 
products or schemes. 
The bond appears to have been invested in green energy initiatives. Mr M has provided a 
copy of a promotion he received about the bond. This indicates the funds raised would be 
used to set up and run biomass plants located in Italy. The funds were also to be used to finance the reduction of bank debt accumulated in the construction phase and debt that is 
owed to the contractors who built the plants and the previous owners.  Repayment of the 
loan (inventors funds) and interest was dependent on sufficient income being generated 
through the sale of power generated by the plants. 
This type of investment carries inherent risks  for example, the risk of illiquidity if/when the 
relevant underlying projects fail and cannot be completed or is completed but dont prove to 
be commercially viable, then capital might not readily be recoverable from the investment 
and /or promised interest payments not made. There is no evidence of Mr M previously 
having experience in this type of investment. Indeed, Mr M says he had limited funds 
available and not much experience of risk-based investment. From what Ive seen, Mr M 
didnt have much in the way of capacity for loss. The idea of placing a large portion of his 
savings in a high-risk unregulated investment doesnt fit his apparent capacity for loss. I 
would expect a proper sales process to show thorough fact finding and suitable investment 
advice to show how it was determined Mr Ms risk profile matched the bond he invested in. 
There is no evidence of this happening. So, I consider that an unregulated bond would have 
been a notable mismatch for investors with Mr Ms circumstances.
I have not seen evidence that Mr M was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for him to understand the risks involved in the bond. His evidence suggests 
he had a low to medium risk profile. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I accept 
what he has told us about his circumstances. Overall and at the time of the investment, Mr 
Ms profile did not fit that of an investor seeking a high-risk and sophisticated investment. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I dont think the bond was suitable for 
Mr M.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Craig Mitchell do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Craig Mitchell must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Craig Mitchell should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Green 
Energy 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondssettlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Craig Mitchell taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible to take ownership, then it 
may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to Craig Mitchell any amount he may 
receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Craig Mitchell 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if Craig Mitchell totals all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Craig Mitchell should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Craig Mitchell should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman