DRN-3282998
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has said it will close his accounts.
What happened
Mr G went into a Lloyds branch to try to withdraw money from a cash machine. As there was 
a problem with the cash machine, a member of the branch staff came over to help him.
Lloyds says that, as the member of staff was helping him with the cash withdrawal, Mr G 
made a violent and abusive comment about one of the other members of staff. It said its staff 
arent expected to deal with abusive, threatening, or offensive behaviour. And so it wrote to 
Mr G, giving him notice that it would be closing his accounts.
Mr G says he doesnt remember having an argument or upsetting anyone in branch. And he 
strongly denies saying anything violent or abusive. He complained to Lloyds about his 
accounts being closed, but Lloyds said it wouldnt overturn its decision. Mr G wasnt happy 
with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaint and said they felt Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong in deciding to close Mr Gs accounts. They said, based on the evidence they 
had, it was likely Mr G had made the comments Lloyds said he had. And that Lloyds had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions in giving Mr G notice that his accounts would be 
closed. Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has several other complaints against Lloyds, and has mentioned a number of different 
issues when discussing this case. But, to be clear, my decision on this complaint will only be 
looking at Lloyds actions in giving him notice to close his accounts.
I wasnt present when Mr G tried to withdraw money from the cash machine, or when the 
member of staff tried to help him. And Mr G and Lloyds have given very different accounts of 
the interaction. So I cant know for certain what happened or what was said. But where the 
evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a decision on what I think is 
likely to have happened  based on the evidence I do have.
Lloyds has sent us statements about what happened when Mr G visited the branch, made by 
a number of different members of staff. These statements are detailed and consistent with 
each other, and say that Mr G made a violent and abusive comment about one of the 
members of staff. Lloyds has also sent us copies of the notes recorded on its internal system 
following Mr Gs visit to branch, and these also say Mr G made a violent and abusive 
comment.
I appreciate that Mr G doesnt remember upsetting anyone and denies saying anything 
violent or abusive. But the statements from the Lloyds staff are detailed and consistent with 
each other, and so I find them persuasive. The notes on Lloyds internal system were also 
recorded soon after the visit, and so I also find them persuasive.
So, based on the evidence I have, I think its more likely than not that Mr G did make the 
comment Lloyds says he did.
Lloydss terms and conditions say that it can close a customers account if it reasonably 
thinks that the customer is, or may be, behaving improperly. And improper behaviour 
includes acting in a threatening or abusive way. So, if Mr G did make the comment Lloyds 
says he did, Lloyds terms and conditions would mean it was entitled to give him notice that it 
would close his accounts as a result.
And as I think its likely Mr G did make the comment Lloyds says he did, I think Lloyds has 
therefore acted in line with its terms and conditions in giving Mr G notice that it would close 
his accounts.
I recognise that this issue has been very distressing for Mr G and that my decision is likely to 
come as a disappointment to him. But, based on the evidence Ive seen and for the reasons 
given above, I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds has acted unreasonably in giving him 
notice that it would be closing his accounts.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman