DRN-3743037
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold holiday club memberships and the loans 
used to pay for them. The loans were provided by GE Money Consumer Lending Limited. Mr 
and Mrs B are represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B bought membership points in Club La Costa (CLC), a holiday club 
and timeshare business. Points could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and other 
services at a large number of resorts. Mr and Mrs B bought points on three occasions in 
2007: in March, August and November. Each purchase was financed by a loan in their joint 
names provided by GE Money. 
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs B wrote to GE Money expressing concerns about the September 
2007 loan, which was used to finance the August 2007 holiday club purchase. Specifically, 
they said that CLC had not been authorised to arrange the loans and that no proper 
assessment of their suitability had been carried out; they asked too what checks GE Money 
had carried out to ensure that CLC was operating properly. 
GE Money said it was satisfied that CLC was properly authorised at the time. It said too that 
any concerns should be addressed to CLC, since it (GE Money) had not been involved in the 
setting up of the loans. 
P referred the matter to this service in December 2021. In addition to the points which Mr 
and Mrs B had made, P said that the holiday club contracts had been misrepresented to Mr 
and Mrs B and that the loans created unfair relationships under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
GE Money said that it should have the opportunity to respond to the new concerns 
contained in Ps letter and that such concerns should be treated as separate complaints. In 
the course of our investigation, P clarified that its clients concerns covered all three loans. 
One of our investigators considered all three loans and the contracts associated with them, 
but was not persuaded that GE Money had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs P did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
I note what GE Money has said about our procedures in respect of this matter. This service 
can only consider a complaint once a financial business has had an opportunity to address 
it. The complaint which was referred to this service in December 2021 was very much wider 
than that which Mr and Mrs B had made in May of that year, and it does not appear that P 
had given GE Money an opportunity to respond to much of it. Be that as it may, I am 
satisfied that it has now been able to do so and that the issues are familiar to both parties.
I take the view as well that the issues raised here are sufficiently closely linked that I should, 
both as a matter of practicality and of fairness, consider them together. 
CLCs authorisation to arrange the loan
All three loan agreements record that Club La Costa acted as credit broker. P says that Club 
La Costa was not authorised to act in that capacity, since it has not been able to find the 
company in the Financial Conduct Authorities register at the time.    
When the loans were set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it 
did however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading. In addition, from 6 April 
2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT 
licensees, under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. Our own records indicate 
that Club La Costa (UK) Limited was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 
April 2007 until 31 March 2014 and thereafter under our compulsory jurisdiction.
CLC would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services consumer 
credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. 
The first loan agreement was signed on 26 March 2007, and GE Moneys records indicate 
that it was paid out on 11 April 2007. 
I am satisfied therefore that CLC was properly authorised as a consumer credit broker when 
the loans were set up and paid between March and December 2007.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the 
loans were otherwise not appropriate for Mr and Mrs B. They do not appear to have said at 
any point to GE Money that they were having difficulty making payments.
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The events complained of in this case are the credit assessments that GE Money carried out 
(or did not carry out) between March and November 2007. Mr and Mrs B would have known 
fairly soon if they were having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the 
complaint should have been referred to this service by no later than the end of 2013 six 
years from the date of the third loan. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loans financed the purchase of the club membership. I note 
that the seller in the case of the first two loans was Leading Resorts Limited, not Club La 
Costa. GE Moneys notes indicate that funds were paid to Leading Resorts in April and 
September 2007, and to Club La Costa in November 2007. I think therefore that its likely 
that, in each case, the supplier (that is, the seller of the holiday club membership points) 
was paid under pre-existing arrangements with GE Money.    
I must therefore consider the claims against Club La Costa and/or Leading Resorts. P says 
that its clients were misled about the holiday club membership. For example, they were told 
that they would be able to book luxury accommodation anywhere in the world, but that was 
not in fact true.
I note that GE Money says that any statements made in relation to the loans or the holiday 
club membership were made by Club La Costa and that it is not responsible for them. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act however makes it responsible for statements made 
by the broker  which is deemed to act as its agent. 
GE Money also says that matters such as availability and standards of accommodation and 
maintenance are outside the scope of section 75 of the Act. That is, in my view, rather 
surprising as a general submission. It is perfectly possible for such matters to give rise to a 
claim for misrepresentation or for breach of contract against a supplier; if they do, there is no 
reason why, in the right circumstances, such a claim should not be brought against a creditor 
under section 75.          
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs B about the membership 
at the time of the sales. They have not identified what was said in connection with which sale 
and have provided no supporting evidence  such as information about accommodation they 
tried to book or the standard of accommodation when they did  showing that what they 
were told was untrue. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs B into the 
contracts for the purchase of holiday club membership were made no later than early 
November 2007, so that is when any cause of action accrued. They did not however raise 
any claim under section 75 until December 2021, some 14 years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim which Mr and Mrs B might now make 
against the seller would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act. 
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim is now out of time under the Limitation 
Act. Rather, I must decide whether it would be fair to hold GE Money liable for the actions of 
the seller in each case. Given the very real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
against Club La Costa and/or Leading Resorts are time-barred, I do not believe it would be.For clarity, I should say that I do not believe that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about this is out 
of time under our own rules. That is because their complaint about GE Money is that it has 
declined their section 75 claim. That happened relatively recently. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr and Mrs B seek restitution of 
sums paid under the loan agreement. Only a court can make an order under section 140B, 
but it is something I must take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable.  
GE Money says that the loans pre-date the introduction of section 140A and 140B. In fact 
they came into force on 6 April 2007. In any event, they allow a court to make orders in 
respect of existing loans and replace similar provisions in respect of extortionate credit 
bargains, covered by section 137 to 140 (now repealed).    
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. GE Money says that the first loan ended in 
November 2007 and the second and third loans ended in March 2012. It follows in my view 
that a court is likely to conclude that any claims under section 140A and section 140B. 
I concluded, provisionally, that I should not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Neither party 
made any further submissions or provided any further evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because, following my provisional decision, I have been provided with no further evidence or 
arguments, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that set out in it. There are 
however two issues on which I would comment further.  
I said in my provisional decision that I was satisfied that Club La Costa was properly 
authorised to arrange loans between March and December 2007. For the sake of 
completeness, however, I am satisfied that Leisure Resorts Limited was similarly authorised. 
Our records indicate that it came under our consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 April 2007 
until 12 August 2010. 
I would also add that, as far as the complaint about affordability is concerned, even if I were 
to take the view that I do have power to consider it (perhaps because Mr and Mrs B were not 
aware at the time of the nature and extent of a lenders obligations to assess affordability), it 
would make no difference to the overall outcome. As I said in my provisional decision, I have 
seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs B had any difficulty in repaying the loans. That does not 
of course mean that proper checks were carried out. It does however indicate that, even if 
they had been, any lending decision is likely to have been much the same.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do 
not require GE Money Consumer Lending Limited to take any further steps to resolve it.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman