DRN-2806076
The complaint
Mr O complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
for cancelling his home insurance policy. He wants Halifax to pay him compensation which 
he will give to charity. 
What happened
In late 2019, Mr O took out home insurance with Halifax. At the time of applying for cover, Mr 
O was asked whether he had ever previously had insurance cancelled. Mr O answered no to 
this question. 
Mr O held motor insurance with another provider. Due to a breakdown in the relationship 
between Mr O and the other insurer, his motor policy was cancelled in January 2020. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr O contacted Halifax by telephone. He told Halifax two versions of 
events, including one that he had cancelled his insurance policies and, also, that his other 
insurers had cancelled the policies. 
During a lengthy call, Halifax came to believe that Mr O had previously had two insurance 
policies cancelled before the start of his insurance with Halifax, and that Mr O had been 
advised that he had to declare these cancellations to future insurers. 
Acting on that basis, Halifax decided to cancel Mr Os policy from the start and to refund to 
him his premiums. 
Mr O complained to Halifax. 
Halifax sent Mr O its final response letter in March 2020. It rejected the complaint and 
advised that, had it known about the cancelled policies before it had offered cover to Mr O, it 
would not have done so.
Mr O did not accept this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that Halifax had acted reasonably, based on the information it had. He therefore 
did not recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr O did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that there has been confusion between Mr O and his previous insurers about 
whether they or he cancelled his policies, and what this meant. Where Mr Os insurance was 
cancelled by the insurer, there has also been confusion about whether Mr O was obliged to 
disclose that cancellation to future insurers. 
I understand that this situation has been distressing and stressful for Mr O, and I have borne 
that in mind throughout. 
I must, however, consider whether Halifax did anything wrong, based on the information that 
was presented to it, even if that information was ultimately not correct. 
In this case, it is clear that Mr O did, at times, tell Halifax staff that he had had insurance 
policies cancelled previously, and that this was cancelled prior to him taking insurance from 
Halifax. 
Halifax was entitled to rely on information being given to it and so was acting reasonably 
when it looked at whether it could continue to provide insurance cover to Mr O, after he had 
disclosed previously cancelled insurance policies.
Regulations set out what insurers should do when they learn of a change of circumstances, 
where that change is relevant to the cover offered. These regulations explain that in cases 
like this, if the insurer would not have offered cover if they had known of the full 
circumstances, then the correct thing to do is for the insurer to cancel the policy from the 
start, and refund the premiums paid. 
Halifax has provided evidence showing that it would not have offered cover to anyone who 
declared that they had previously had insurance cancelled. On that basis, and believing that 
Mr O had previously had insurance cancelled before he started his policy with Halifax, 
Halifax was entitled to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. 
As a result, I cannot say that Halifax did the wrong thing in the circumstances that it 
understood at the time, and so I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Os 
complaint. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr O, but I hope it is clear about why I have 
reached this decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint and I do not ask Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman