DRN-4496027
The complaint
Miss T complains that Plus500UK Ltd did not allow her to withdraw her profits when she 
wanted to. She also complains that Plus500UK Ltd manipulated its spreads and its prices, in 
such a way as to prevent her from making the sorts of profits she had been originally. She 
complains that Plus500UK Ltd persuaded her to invest more money, and scammed her by 
calling her daily.  
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ts complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He noted that Miss T was required to provide an acceptable form of verification in order to 
withdraw her funds, and she didnt do this. He found no evidence that Plus500 had 
manipulated its spread and explained how her account worked. He also didnt find any 
evidence that Miss T was scammed or persuaded to invest more money than she wanted. 
Miss T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the investigator hadnt taken into 
account that her ID had already been approved via Experian, and Plus500 took advantage 
and used the passport verification as leverage to stop her withdrawing her funds. She said 
that she didnt care about the account terms and conditions because they werent fit for 
purpose. And she said that they were a market maker and they manipulated prices and 
trades. She said that this was the first time this had happened to her and other brokers I 
have used do not apply the same practices and dont even require proof of ID. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss T but I dont have much to add to what the 
investigator has already told her. 
I should start by saying that its not possible for me to determine the issues that Miss T has 
raised about manipulated spreads or prices. My role isnt to audit her entire account, its to 
look at her complaint and decide whether shes been treated fairly and reasonably by the 
business. Miss T hasnt raised specific trades shes unhappy with in her complaint, nor 
pointed to specific failings that I can evaluate in order to determine if Plus500 actually did 
something wrong. 
Im therefore not able to consider this element of her complaint  save to say that Ive seen 
no evidence, on file, that there was any manipulation in the spreads or the prices of the 
trades she was placing. I say this because from the little information I do have, the 
explanations she was given via live chat are consistent with how limit orders or buy orders 
work. From those chats, it seems to me that the majority of Miss Ts dissatisfaction is to do 
with the way the markets were moving, and not something Plus500 did or didnt do. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Miss T was persuaded to add more funds than she wanted, 
or scammed by the business in any way. Its clear that she is dissatisfied with the service 
Plus500 provided to her, and for that reason I understand its reasons for terminating her 
account. But Im not persuaded it has treated her unfairly or cajoled her into investing more 
money trading than she wanted  in fact her initial correspondence when she was being 
verified suggested that she couldnt wait the few weeks it wouldve taken to receive her 
driving licence back with the correct address. This suggests Miss T was keen on trading, and 
this is something she was very much doing of her own volition. 
In relation to the withdrawal of her funds, Im not persuaded this has caused her a loss. She 
was clearly told on 28 February 2022 that her account had been verified and she could begin 
trading if she wanted  but that in order to be able to withdraw your funds, you will need to 
provide us with a copy of your renewed passport/Driving License as soon as you have it. So 
Miss T already knew from the start that shed need to provide further evidence. The fact that 
other brokers may or may not require the same evidence is not relevant. If she was unhappy 
with this additional requirement, she knew before she deposited or had begun trading  she 
couldve simply closed her account and chosen another broker who, as she says, had less 
stringent verification measures. 
The fact that she did deposit and start trading indicates that she accepted, prior to 
withdrawing, shed need to provide this additional evidence. So it shouldve come as no 
surprise that, when she asked to withdraw her funds, she was told this evidence was 
required. Im not persuaded any of this was unreasonable. Furthermore, even if I thought 
Plus500 shouldve allowed her to withdraw her money, its clear that I wouldnt ask it to 
refund her trading loss  Miss T didnt have to continue trading, thats something she chose 
to do and unfortunately meant that the profits she says she built up were eroded by losses. 
Im not persuaded this is something Plus500 ought to take responsibility for. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Plus500 acted fairly and reasonably in Miss Ts 
case and need not do anything to put matters right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman