DRN-4083905
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC relates to a mortgage product fee 
that they say was added to their mortgage too soon, resulting in them incurring charges 
before the product started.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them here 
again in detail. In summary, Mrs L and Mr L applied for a new product with Barclays in 
November 2022 as their current product was due to end. Mrs L and Mr L completed the 
application online.
Soon after completing the application Mrs L and Mr L noticed that a product fee had been 
added to their mortgage balance immediately, but they were expecting this to be applied 
from when the new rate was due to start on 1 May 2023. They didn't think this was fair so 
complained to Barclays.
Barclays didn't uphold the complaint. It says it charges the product fee immediately because 
it allows consumers to apply for the products early. And it says its the consumers choice 
when they want to apply, so should they have chosen Mrs L and Mr L could have applied 
closer to the time of expiry on their current product.
Mrs L and Mr L didn't agree so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but decided not to uphold it. They said Barclays hadn't acted 
unfairly in applying the product fee at the time because this would have secured the interest 
rate for Mrs L and Mr L. They also said Barclays had informed them that the fee would be 
added at the point Mrs L and Mr L's application was submitted.
Mrs L and Mr L remained unhappy, they said that they were being treated unfairly by being 
charged the product fee immediately and they pointed to the fact that a new customer 
wouldn't have been charged a product fee from the point of application and would have only 
been added once the mortgage was taken out. Because they didn't agree the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. I'll explain why.
Mrs L and Mr L say they have been treated differently to potential new customers that 
Barclays may offer mortgages to because new customers wouldn't have to pay the product 
fee in advance, like they have been made to. 
Having considered this I don't think Barclays has acted unreasonably, I say this because it is 
for Barclays to decide what products it offers to both existing and new customers. And while 
the products offered may be similar it's likely the processing and administration of the 
products for new and existing customers will be different. For example, a new customer is 
likely to be asked to pay an application fee and/or a valuation fee prior to the mortgage being 
accepted however these fees on similar products for existing customers may not be 
required.
In the circumstances what I would expect to see is that Barclays have made it clear what 
fees will be charged and when they will be charged. Barclays have provided us with the 
application process that Mrs L and Mr L would have undertaken when securing the new 
product. During this process Mrs L and Mr L would have been presented a message in the 
application process which said You are choosing to add your product fee of £999.00 to your 
mortgage balance - this means you'll pay interest on it over the term. Your fee will be added 
at the point of application submission. 
I'm satisfied that Barclays provided clear information to Mrs L and Mr L on how and when the 
product fee would be charged  it also confirmed that the fee was charged at submission to 
secure the rate that Mrs L and Mr L wanted. In the circumstances I don't think Barclays has 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in applying the product fee from the point of submission of 
their application.
Barclays offered to refund the product fee to Mrs L and Mr L following their complaint and so 
if they wanted to avoid paying the product fee in advance they could have done so. 
However, I do note this would also have meant that the rate they had secured in November 
2022 would have been cancelled and so Mrs L and Mr L would have only been able to apply 
for rates available at the time they wished to continue with a product switch. 
I don't find it unreasonable that Barclays wouldn't hold a rate for six months without some 
kind of recompense for itself, I say this because rates can go up and down and this would 
likely be a commercial risk for Barclays to decide it wanted to take, so in the circumstances 
without Mrs L and Mr L agreeing to lock in a rate by paying the product fee at submission, I 
don't think Barclays would have acted unfairly in not holding that product rate for them for 
the six months.  
Mrs L and Mr L have questioned whether the fee applied was a product fee or an application 
fee. They have provided us an extract of their bank statement showing this being applied as 
an application fee. I have considered all of the paperwork provided by Barclays and it is clear 
that this fee was a product fee and not an application fee. So I agree with our investigator 
that it's more likely than not that it being shown as an application fee on the statement is 
likely just a system limitation on how this type of fee is described on the statement itself.
Having considered the evidence, along with everything Mrs L and Mr L have provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays decision to add the product fee was reasonable and in line with the 
product terms and conditions. While I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs L and Mr L, 
I cant say that Barclays treated them unfairly by adding the product fee immediately to 
secure the product that Mrs L and Mr L wanted. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman