DRN-4134244
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited, who Ill call Moneybarn, have calculated 
arrears on his account incorrectly and have made inaccurate reports to the credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I dont think Moneybarn have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Moneybarn granted Mr M payment holidays in March, April, July, and August 2020. Mr M 
has explained that the terms of the payment holidays required those finance instalments to 
be added to the end of the agreement. Hes suggested that Moneybarn havent done that 
and have been demanding payments for those arrears and reporting them to the credit 
reference agencies. I dont agree. Ive reviewed Mr Ms statement of account and the reports 
that Moneybarn have made to his credit file. The arrears relate to payments missed since 
the payment holidays ended, and the business havent reported any payments due during 
the payment holidays to Mr Ms credit file. They first reported a missed payment on this 
account in January 2021 following a period where Mr M had difficulty with pay roll and non-
Covid related illness. Subsequent credit file reports are in line with the arrears that built up 
on Mr Ms account and have also been reported correctly
Whilst I have every sympathy for the difficulties Mr M has experienced Im afraid I can find 
no evidence that Moneybarn have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to 
take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman