DRN-4039328
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has refused to transfer money 
from her account.
What happened
Mr C on behalf of the estate of Mrs C says Mrs C, his wife, passed away unexpectedly 
before a planned holiday. He says the holiday business refunded the cost to Mrs Cs 
Vanquis credit card account for just under £1,800. Mr C says Vanquis insists on either a 
Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration before it will pay the account balance. He says 
that he has provided identity documents and says the request is unreasonable as there will 
be a cost. Mr C says other businesses do not require such documents for such a relatively 
small amount and Vanquiss decision has caused distress.
Vanquis says its policy is to ask for one of the requested documents. It says it cant 
comment on other businesses policy.
Mr C brought the complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it up to Vanquis to decide what its policy was and that we are not its 
regulator.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and questions why he should pay between £200 and £400 for 
the documents. He says there is no mention of the requirement in the credit card agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall decision that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint.
I hope it will assist Mr C if I explain our role. We are not Vanquiss regulator and so its not 
our role to direct it to change its policy on this issue. And the complainant here is not Mr C 
but the estate of Mrs C, so I cant consider the distress Mr C has suffered in dealing with this 
issue. I appreciate Mr C says other businesses have higher limits before requests of this 
type are made but each business is entitled to decide, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, what those limits are.
Im satisfied that Vanquis has made a decision to request either a Grant of Probate or 
Letters of Administration before releasing to the estate the credit balance on Mrs Cs 
account. I have made clear that I find its entitled to make such a decision however 
inconvenient that may be to the estate but that doesnt mean its acted unfairly or made a 
mistake. So, I cant fairly direct Vanquis to release the money to the estate in these 
circumstances. I dont think it matters what was or not said about this issue in the credit card 
agreement as Vanquis has made its position clear.
I appreciate Mr C questions why he should pay the cost of £200 to £400 but it may be the 
case depending on the size of the estate that a fee is not required. I would have expected 
the estate to have considered that, as it will know the exact amount of the estate and can 
see it has told us the value is under £5,000.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman