DRN-2984416
The complaint
Mr Q and his representative complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at the details of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision as 
follows;
Mr Q made a claim under his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident and 
crashed his car. But Admiral turned his claim down as he was arrested. Mr Q mistook police 
officers who were following him for car jackers and so he failed to stop and collided with a 
car.
The police put a file to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) about Mr Qs actions at the 
time, but the CPS decided to drop the court case. But Admiral felt that Mr Qs actions and 
driving would still be classed as dangerous and fell below a reasonable standard. It said that 
he had admitted driving dangerously and that hed been interviewed and charged by the 
police.
Admiral did acknowledge some delays and poor service in dealing with Mr Qs claim but as it 
wouldnt change its position and still declined the claim Mr Q complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Ultimately she felt 
that Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim.
As Mr Q and his representative didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. The key thing to consider in looking at this complaint is whether Admiral acted 
reasonably in turning down Mr Qs claim as he was driving dangerously and shouldve 
known that the car following him was a police car. And from the evidence Ive seen, although 
I can understand Admirals position, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Mr Q was charged and interviewed by the police for dangerous driving after failing to stop, 
being involved in a pursuit and causing an accident. The police alleged that he drove at 
speed and failed to stop. A file was submitted to the CPS, but the case was discontinued  
so he wasnt prosecuted for dangerous driving or any offence.
Mr Q maintains that he was fearful that his high-performance car was being targeted by 
carjackers (as hed heard of cars being targeted in his locality through media coverage). And 
even when the police stopped him he was so fearful for his safety, as he thought he was 
being targeted by criminals who were targeting cars such as his in the area, he didnt realise 
that they were police officers and drove off. While Admiral feel that he knew (or should have 
known) the car stopping him was a police car and so he chose to drive dangerously and 
involve himself in a police pursuit. Having considered all the available evidence and the 
police statements I can understand Admirals stance.
However, Mr Q has always been clear that he didnt realise he was being stopped by the 
police and, having considered his testimony and interview by the police under caution, I dont 
think he is being untruthful. I say this as the police officers who stopped him were in an 
unmarked police car and werent in police uniform  indeed Mr Q described them as scruffy. 
This is because they were actually investigating theft of high-performance cars, like Mr Qs, 
in the area. And I think Mr Q was clearly too panicked and highly stressed to think clearly at 
the time the police tried to stop him.
Mr Qs house had been broken into a while before this incident and the police specifically 
told him that they thought the thieves were targeting his car. And Mr Q had no reason not to 
stop, if he realised they were police officers following him, as he hadnt done anything wrong. 
There isnt anything to suggest that Mr Q was breaking the law and he had no reason to 
evade the police  indeed he has provided strong character witnesses as part of his 
defence. The police didnt have sirens or uniforms at the time they attempted to stop him, 
and he clearly didnt realise they were police because he was so stressed.
So, although I can understand why Admiral has declined Mr Qs claim as it felt that he was 
using his car for criminal purpose (including avoiding lawful apprehension) I dont think it 
has sufficient evidence to support its position. I say this as Mr Q wasnt prosecuted as he 
was clearly in fear for his safety at the time he was followed by plain clothed police officers in 
an unmarked car.
As such, I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Admiral to pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. And it should pay Mr Q 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
Ive asked Mr Qs representative about how this has all impacted on him and it is clear that 
he has faced a number of difficulties, both financially and emotionally. Mr Q had to pay for 
his car for a further two years even though he couldnt use it and had to pay a final balloon 
payment as well. And he hired a car for a few months and when it became clear that Admiral 
was declining his claim he had to get another car for the family on finance.
So, I think Admiral should try to put Mr Q back into the position he should have been but for 
the error. Mr Q would have had to pay for his car in any event so if Admiral settles his claim 
and pays him 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement then I 
think this puts Mr Q back close to his original position for this. Admiral should also pay Mr 
Qs hire car costs, subject to Mr Q providing proof, as he had to stay mobile and it is only fair 
that Admiral pays this as hed lost the use of his car. 
Turning to the purchase of the second car Mr Q has incurred expense here that he wouldnt 
have done had Admiral settled his claim. So it should pay Mr Qs costs (£295 per month) 
from the date he took finance out on the new car until the date he finished paying finance on 
the car that was stolen (July 2020) plus simple interest. I say this as Mr Q wouldve had to 
buy a new car at this point in time in any event and so I dont think Admiral should pay 
anymore here.
Finally, turning to the stress, inconvenience and emotional distress that all this has caused 
Mr Q which was substantial. He has explained that Admirals failure to settle his claim impacted on his work, family and life generally which I accept. Although, I dont think any 
amount of compensation would compensate Mr Q and he was fortunate that he had family 
and friends to rely on for help financially and emotionally. So, given all of this I think Admiral 
should pay Mr Q £750 in compensation.
replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. But Mr Qs representative just asked how 
long the final decision would be, so I presume he accepted the position outlined.
While Admiral asked for an extension of time and asked for clarity around the redress but 
didnt respond in any detail about the substance of looking to uphold the complaint. Admiral 
raised a question about the hire and finance for Mr Qs car overlapping and whether I was 
asking for finance up to the point of settlement of the original claim. And asked whether the 
interest part of the finance agreement should be paid as opposed to the whole car. Admiral 
was mindful of betterment for the consumer.
Admiral also went on to say that it wasnt in a position to decline the claim while Mr Q faced 
potential prosecution. And said that it felt the fairest thing was for redress to be looked at 
from the point possible prosecution was finalised as opposed to the point of claim. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the further comments and original evidence again I still think that 
the level of compensation and redress Ive suggested feels fair in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
I dont propose to go over the detail of this complaint in detail again as Ive already 
considered all of the main issues above and both sides havent made any further 
representation about upholding the complaint. However, I will comment on the further points 
raised by Admiral around redress.
Although I understand and accept Admirals point that there was always likely to be a delay 
in finalising its position while the police and CPS considered Mr Qs failure to stop. But I 
dont think it would be fair for Mr Q to be penalised financially for any delay as it was 
ultimately decided that he wasnt at fault and Admiral should have dealt with the claim far 
earlier. And this failure has had a significant impact on Mr Q. So, I think it is only fair that the 
financial difficulties Mr Q faced should be looked at from the beginning of his claim.
I know Admiral also feel that there could be an element of betterment for Mr Q here, but I 
think what Ive suggested feels fair. I say this as Mr Q was having to pay his original finance 
agreement for his old car as his claim wasnt settled. And because he needed a car for his 
general and family commitments he had to pay for a second car on finance as well. I know 
Im asking Admiral to pay the full finance payments (only up to the point that the finance on 
his first car was complete) and it feels that this puts Mr Q in a better position. But he wouldnt 
have had to pay this second payment if Admiral had finalised the claim and it wouldnt be fair 
for Mr Q to pay twice during this period (for his old car and the new car) given that his claim 
should have been settled by then.
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to 
Settle Mr Qs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement;
Pay Mr Qs hire car costs, subject to Mr Q providing proof, plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
Pay Mr Qs costs for the second car plus 8% simple interest from the date he took 
out finance until the date he finished paying finance on the original car; and
Pay £750 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman