DRN-1884260
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In April 1989 Mrs P was advised to set up a whole of life policy by a firm Phoenix Life has 
since acquired liability for. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £40,000  in the 
event Mrs P died or suffered a critical illness/disability - and included escalation for the first 
five years. The policy premiums started at about £16 per month and were invested in a 
managed fund.
A policy review took place in 2004. The sum assured reduced to about £24,000 with the 
premiums remaining at about £24 (increased due to escalation). It was then surrendered in 
May 2004 and Mrs P received about £2,300.
L complained on behalf of Mrs P to Phoenix Life in October 2019 about the sale of the 
policy. They said Mrs P wasnt made aware of any other options, nor was an assessment 
carried out regarding the long-term affordability of the policy  which they considered a 
concern given Mrs P had no pension provision. L also added that it wasnt clear why Mrs P 
required life cover.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the paperwork from the time of sale 
shows Mrs P was a housewife and so a pension provision, by way of a personal pension, 
wasnt available to her at that time. But protection in the event of a long-term illness was a 
priority for her. And, in April 1989, critical illness cover was only available with life cover on a 
whole of life basis or in conjunction with an endowment plan. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. She was satisfied the paperwork from the time of sale 
showed Mrs P wanted financial protection. So, didnt think it was unreasonable for life and 
critical illness cover to be recommended and - at the time it was sold  critical illness cover 
wasnt available as a standalone policy. Our investigator also didnt think a whole of life 
policy was unsuitable for Mrs P simply because she didnt have any pension provisions in 
place at that time.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my findings, Id like to assure L that Ive taken in to account the other 
complaint it has referenced in support of Mrs Ps complaint. But, in making my decision, Ive 
considered the individual circumstances of this complaint when determining what I think is 
fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The policy was sold as part of a joint review with Mrs Ps husband. The personal financial 
analysis report that recorded their circumstances show their two main priorities were 
protection against long term illness and protection for their family. And, while I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Mrs P and the adviser when the policy was sold, the report 
says:
At presentMrs Pdoes not have any life protection. [She] wishes to have some 
life cover with living assurance benefits
Taking this in to account, Im satisfied Mrs P wished to provide protection for her family.
Im aware L has queried why life cover was needed. Ive not seen anything to show Mrs P 
had any existing protection policies in place. So, given Mrs P was married and had a young 
child, it doesnt seem unreasonable that she would want to set up a policy to protect her 
family in the event of her death or if she suffered from a critical illness. I think its also worth 
explaining that critical illness cover only became available as a standalone policy after
Mrs Ps policy was set up. And so, the only way Mrs P could obtain critical illness cover was 
if it was provided as part of a policy  like the one sold  which also provided life protection.
Mrs P didnt have any pension provisions in place when the policy was sold. I understand L 
has questioned how she was going to be able to maintain the policy premiums in retirement. 
And why a reviewable policy was advised to her given the premiums could continue to rise 
or, alternatively, the level of cover could reduce. 
Although retirement planning is an important consideration for many, the personal financial 
analysis report shows that protection was a priority for Mrs P at that time. And it isnt a 
requirement for someone to have pension provisions in place for them to be able to take out 
protection policies. Such policies can provide valuable benefits separately to any retirement 
provisions.
The reviewable nature of a whole of life policy does pose the risk of higher premiums for the 
same level of cover in the future. But it also offered Mrs P greater flexibility as she had the 
option to increase or decrease the level of cover  and thereby the premiums payable - to 
suit her circumstances (such as if she was struggling to afford the premiums). Whereas if 
Mrs P had been advised to set up a term assurance policy then, in the event of her not being 
able to afford the premiums, her only option wouldve been to cancel the policy. In addition to 
this, Mrs P also benefitted from the surrender payment that she received when the policy 
was stopped in 2004. This likewise wouldnt have been a benefit provided under a term 
assurance policy. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it was unreasonable for the whole of life 
policy to be recommended to Mrs P. And so, it follows that I dont think the policy was mis-
sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman