DRN-1946658
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about his investment account with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
He says Barclays changed the service basis for his account  from a discretionary 
management service to a dealing and custody service  without notice to or consultation with 
him. He seeks compensation (of £250) for the trouble and upset this caused him.
What happened
Barclays disputes the complaint  however, it conceded responsibility for an associated 
matter, for which it paid compensation of £350 (with regards to trouble and upset). Mr A 
accepted this as settlement of the associated matter.
To clarify: 
Barclays position on the complaint is that it made multiple attempts to telephone Mr A 
in 2016 and then wrote to him a number of time; that all communication attempts 
were related to notice that his account had to be reviewed and, failing that, the 
discretionary management arrangement could not be allowed to continue (i.e. without 
the requisite review), so the account would be transferred to the dealing and custody 
service; that Mr A responded to none of its communication attempts so the account 
transfer took place; that in 2017 he gave late notice about a change of his address 
and he did so after the transfer had taken place; as such, it is not responsible for any 
inaction on his part, if he did not receive the letters sent to him in 2016.
The associated matter relates to an error in Barclays recording of Mr As new 
address after he provided the notice in 2017. Mr A had to highlight this error to 
Barclays, and it was eventually rectified. For the trouble and upset caused to him, 
Barclays offered him £350 compensation.
Mr A disagrees with Barclays position on the complaint. He emphasises that his letter in 
2017 was a reminder to Barclays of the change of his address, and that he had initially 
written to Barclays in 2016. On this basis, he says Barclays had  or ought to have had  no 
cause to use his previous address in the letters it claims to have sent him in 2016; that it 
ought to have used his new (and accurate) address; and that had it done so, he would have 
received any notice from Barclays and acted accordingly.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Barclays had to conduct the account transfer because the review that was required in 
order to maintain the discretionary management service did not take place.
Barclays has explained telephone recording evidence in which a member of its staff 
conceded receipt of a change of address notice from Mr A in 2016; it says the 
member of staffs concession was a mistake and that there is no record of any such 
notice from Mr A in 2016. This is credible and is supported by the notice Mr A sent in 
April 2017. He would not have sent this in 2017 if he had already sent an update on 
his address in 2016.
Barclays first awareness of Mr As change of address was in April 2017 and by that 
time the account transfer had already happened. Such a transfer would have 
happened by 2019 in any case, because the account was below a minimum value 
threshold (for the discretionary management service) introduced in that year; so the 
account would not have continued to qualify for the service.
No financial loss arose from the matter, given that lower fees were applied to the 
account after the transfer.
Barclays settlement of the associated matter is fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed strongly with this outcome. In the main, he took the view that insufficient 
weight had been given to the telephone recording evidence in which Barclays conceded 
receipt of his change of address notice in 2016; and he said that this evidence is enough to 
uphold his complaint. He also objected to the suggestion that he gave no notice in 2016 
because of the notice he gave in 2017. He stressed that the latter was a reminder he was 
prompted to send because he noticed the lack of correspondence from Barclays at the time. 
The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint is that there was a service basis transfer related to his account, conducted 
by Barclays without his knowledge and consent. It does not appear that the rationale and 
review process in the background of this issue is in dispute. For the sake of completeness, I 
do not consider that they should be in dispute and I do not find that Barclays was wrong to 
require a review in order to continue the service. 
In the context of a discretionary investment management service, such a review was 
reasonable. There is evidence in Barclays 2016 correspondence that the need to ensure the 
mandate on which the service was based remained suitable for Mr A (inclusive of his 
circumstances at the time) was a main aim of the required review. That was a reasonable 
aim and given that Barclays was unable to fulfil it  as there was no engagement from Mr A 
 the decision to terminate the service and transfer the account was reasonable.
The reason behind lack of engagement by Mr A is disputed. The dispute features the matter 
of communication  which, I consider, gives rise to two sub-issues. First, Barclays 
responsibility in the matter must be considered, and in this respect the query is whether (or 
not) it did anything wrong in communicating the review notices (and the notice of a service 
transfer if a review did not take place) to Mr A. The second sub-issue is whether (or not), and 
despite of any wrongdoing by Barclays, Mr A received or ought to have received the notices. 
The second sub-issue is of equal importance to the first. The complaint is not just about 
receipt of correspondence. It is about the service transfer in Mr As account, so if despite any 
wrongdoing by Barclays the balance of evidence shows that he nevertheless received or 
ought to have received the notices, the conclusion that probably follows is that responsibility 
for his engagement (or lack of) with the review notice and process rests with him. Of course, 
if evidence does not support this conclusion and wrongdoings exist on Barclays part, then 
the reverse probably applies and responsibility in the matter rests with Barclays.
I have given due consideration to Mr As submissions about the change of address notice he 
says he sent Barclays in 2016. I note that Barclays says its officials confirmation that this 
was received was a confirmation given in error and that there is no record of any such notice 
from him in 2016. However, I am not quite satisfied with this stance, especially as the 
alleged error has not been sufficiently explained. Mr A makes a reasonable argument which questions how and why a Barclays official would be able to recite record of receiving the 
2016 notice if it had not been received and logged on to the records she was reciting from. 
I do not completely discount the possibility that the records could have been inaccurately 
completed, for example, but I do not consider that the balance of probability supports such a 
view. As such, I do not consider that there is a basis, on balance, to accept Barclays claim 
about an error. Instead it appears that notice of Mr As change of address was received by 
Barclays in 2016. 
Having said the above, I should reflect my concern about the content of his letter of 2017. I 
do not consider that it reads like the reminder he says it was. Instead, I consider that it reads 
like Mr As first notice to Barclays of a change of address. I consider this a finely balanced 
matter, as I accept the possibility that Mr As drafting of the letter omitted to convey his 
intention for it to serve as a reminder; but it creates an element of doubt about the 2016 
notice that cannot reasonably be ignored. 
Documentary evidence of what the Barclays official saw on its records and what she recited 
from would be ideal, but that does not exist. Mr A says she must have seen his letter of 2016 
or record of it and I can understand why he would assert this. Even if that was not the case 
and if no such letter existed  because of the doubt mentioned above  I consider, on 
balance, that a form of information (however it was sourced) about his change of address 
existed in Barclays record in 2016. The official confirmed that much. 
I now address Mr As role in the matter. He has confirmed that, in 2016, he redirected mail 
from his previous address to his new address; and that he also had some mail personally 
forwarded to him from the previous address at the time. I am satisfied with evidence that 
Barclays repeated notices, about the required review, in 2016 were correctly addressed and 
with evidence that they were sent to the correct address. The implication, in the absence of 
evidence of a postal problem, is that they would have been delivered to Mr As previous 
address and then forwarded to him at his new address  through the official mail redirection 
service, or through any mail that was personally forwarded to him.
This sets the context to further consider the probability that Barclays did wrong in not using 
information about Mr As change of address to update its correspondence records for him in 
2016. The result of that wrongdoing was that it sent notices to his previous address, but I am 
persuaded that he probably either received those notices or ought to have received them 
through redirection. On this basis, responsibility remained with him to engage with the 
required review of his account, which he was aware of or should have been aware of.
The above findings are not completely certain. They do not need to be. Available evidence 
does not provide certainty. This service can determine cases on the balance of probabilities 
and that is the approach I have taken. Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mr A would 
have received Barclays notices, that he should have engaged with the review process and 
that his failure to do so led to the service transfer; so, his complaint that Barclays is 
responsible for this is not upheld. Even if I upheld the complaint, I doubt I would be 
persuaded to award compensation for trouble and upset, given what Barclays paid for the 
associated matter. In terms of compensation, it is likely that I would have considered that 
payment relevant and enough to cover the associated matter and the service transfer issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman