DRN-2668991
The complaint
Ms G complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not tell her that an 
ongoing advice charge was optional, and she has been charged despite having received 
almost no advice since 2010. 
Ms G also complains that she had to wait nearly three months for an appointment with an 
adviser and that the performance of her investments have produced a lower than average 
return.
Ms G would like her charges reimbursed to the value of £1,248.42.
What happened
Ms G met with an adviser in 2010 to discuss her financial arrangements and to receive 
investment planning advice. A financial planning report was sent to Ms G in April 2010 and 
contained recommendations based on her personal circumstances. Ms G proceeded to 
follow the recommendations.
In July 2019, Nationwide sent Ms G a letter saying that some of her funds were not 
performing as expected and recommended that she book a review. Ms G booked an 
appointment, but it took nearly 3 months for her to get a date with an adviser.
Ms G met with the adviser in January 2021 and the adviser wrote on the 15 January with 
recommendations for her portfolio. Ms G says that at the meeting, she was informed that an 
ongoing advice charge was optional and that she could stop paying this.
Following receipt of this letter, Ms G complained to Nationwide saying that she wasnt told 
the charge was optional and that she had received almost no advice since 2010. Ms G also 
complained that it took too long to get an appointment and that the performance of her 
investments were lower than other funds held with other providers.
Nationwide investigated Ms Gs complaint and responded on 5 February 2020. They said 
that they didnt think that they had done anything wrong on charges and that they were 
unable to respond about performance as this was managed by a third party. Nationwide did 
uphold Ms Gs complaint about the length of time it took to see an adviser and paid her £75 
in compensation for the delay.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Ms G referred her complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed her complaint. The investigator did not think that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms G has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms G but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Ms G feels strongly about the complaint so I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
The complaint covers 3 points and I will deal with each one in turn.
Delay in arranging an appointment with an adviser
Ms G tried to arrange an appointment with Nationwide following their letter about some of 
her funds underperforming. From the documentation I have seen, this meeting took place in 
December 2019  which was nearly three months from the time that Ms G attempted to 
arrange a meeting.
In their final response to Ms G, Nationwide upheld this part of the complaint and apologised 
for the delay in arranging a meeting. They paid £75 in compensation to Ms Gs account.
I think that Nationwide have acted fairly in their attempt to compensate Ms G for the delay in 
arranging an adviser and Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
Underperformance of recommended investments 
Ms G says that the performance of her investment portfolio has been poor compared to 
investments held elsewhere by other providers. Ms G says that her Nationwide investments 
have risen by 3% but her other investments have risen by 14% over the same 10-year 
period.
Ms G says that the lack of advice from Nationwide is proof has contributed to this poor 
performance.
In their final response to Ms G, Nationwide said that the portfolio was managed by third 
parties and that they had no control over the performance of the investments. As this was in 
the hands of other fund managers, they were unable to respond to her concerns about 
performance.
The service is unable to look at complaints that are solely based on investment performance 
so I need to consider whether Ms G was paying for a service that included regular advice 
and if regular monitoring of her account would have improved the performance.
On this point, I agree with Nationwide that they have done nothing wrong and Im not going 
to ask them to do anything further. I will expand on this point below.
Ongoing advice charge 
The Financial Report that was sent to Ms G in 2010 set out the charges that would apply to 
her portfolio. I reviewed this document and it says:
The Investment Portfolio Service looks after the administration of the stocks and shares 
ISA(s), Unit Trust and Portfolio Bond. This service allows you to save and or invest in funds 
offered by different providers. There is an annual fee for this ser\'ice, which is typically 0. 25 
% each year- for ISA(s) and Unit Trust(s). This charge is covered by the annual Charges and 
is not in addition to it. With regard to the Portfolio Bond, the cost of the service is included in the charges and 
deductions detailed in your personal illustration.
We do not provide an advised fund switching service or; in ongoing portfolio review service. 
Therefore, to ensure your overall portfolio remains within your attitude to risk profile, you 
may wish to monitor your portfolios performance, as the individual fund value of each fund 
may vary at different rates.
Having reviewed the information about charges in the 2010 Report, I think that Ms G was 
paying annual charges for the administration and custody of her investments. Ms G was also 
paying commission on her investments, but I dont think that Ms G was paying for ongoing 
advice in 2010.
Nationwide sent Mr G a letter in 2015 saying that they were changing how investments held 
within the Investor Portfolio Service (IPS) were being charged. The main changes were:
the IPS fee would be calculated separately from other charges such as fund manager 
charges and Nationwide commission
Nationwide commission would reduce on some funds and consumers would pay no 
more than 0.50% on any fund
Ms Gs charges would increase by an estimated £53.40 as a result of the changes
In her submission to the service, Ms G says that it was not made clear to her in the 2015 
letter that the 0.5% charge was optional and she only became aware in 2019 following the 
meeting with the adviser that this was an optional charge.
I think that there is some confusion here. Having reviewed the 2015 letter, I think that the 
changes only related to fund charges and commission and how they were going to be shown 
going forward. The IPS fee would be shown separately going forward and not combined 
under the ongoing charges figure. I dont believe that the 2015 letter included anything about 
the ongoing advice fee.
Ms G says that she was told at the meeting that the ongoing advice fee was optional and 
that she didnt need to pay this. In the letter dated 15 January 2020 from the adviser, it is 
noted that Ms G wanted to opt out of the ongoing advice fee and describes the 
consequences for this.
I wrote to Nationwide to ask some questions around this as I thought the letter could have 
been worded differently. Nationwide said they were comfortable with the wording. 
I can see why Ms G would think that she had been paying this previously as she now had 
the option to opt out, but I am satisfied that it was the review of her portfolio in 2020 that 
prompted the question to be asked again. The 2020 review was in effect, a new starting 
point where her portfolio could have been subject to ongoing advice.
Ms G has never paid the ongoing advice charge and the IPS does not provide for continued 
advice unless the consumer specifically requests and pays for this additional service.
I think that the adviser asked Ms G about the ongoing advice service, but Ms G declined this, 
and this is reflected on the customer agreement that was signed in 2020.
In summary, Ms G has never paid the ongoing advice fee and as a result, has never had 
regular reviews of her portfolio. Ms G was paying a service charge to Nationwide which 
included communication from them if they identified any concerns with funds and it also 
included the opportunity to ask for a financial review. Ms G was also paying a platform fee to the third-party administrator where he portfolio was 
held. I am satisfied that Ms G was only paying two charges and did not pay a fee for ongoing 
advice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman