DRN-3462811
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her account, declined her
fraud claim and registered a CIFAS marker against her.
Miss B is represented by her father, Mr B.
What happened
On 3 June 2019, Miss Bs card was used to make several transactions she says she didnt
authorise. There were a few balance enquiries and ATM withdrawal attempts against Miss
Bs existing balance. But there was also a deposit of £2,800 paid into Miss Bs account,
which was immediately withdrawn using an assisted service device (an advanced, in-branch
ATM) by way of a £2,000 cash withdrawal and an £800 bank transfer.
Miss Bs testimony as to what happened has been inconsistent on some points, but she has
always maintained that she lost her card prior to the disputed transactions, that the PIN
wasnt with her card and that she doesnt know how her PIN could have been discovered.
Barclays blocked Miss Bs account while it carried out an investigation, but it ultimately
rejected Miss Bs complaint, closed her account and registered a marker against her name
with the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). Miss B complained but Barclays
issued its final response on 21 November 2019 saying that it didnt uphold Miss Bs
complaint. So, Miss B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said shed considered the evidence
and decided Miss B had consented to the disputed transactions. She noted that all of the
transactions would have required Miss Bs card and PIN, and that there was no logical
explanation as to how Miss Bs PIN could have been compromised.
She also found Miss Bs testimony to be inconsistent, particularly as to when and how she
first discovered the transactions. And she noted that there were balance enquiries
immediately before the £2,000 withdrawal, which suggests that whoever withdrew the money 
was expecting it. She also noted that Miss B had referred to instances when she had
checked her online banking, but Barclays had provided evidence to show Miss B wasnt
registered for online banking and that any online banking access would have been denied
when Miss Bs account was blocked.
Our investigator also felt Barclays acted fairly when it closed Miss Bs account, and when it
registered a CIFAS marker against her.
Miss B didnt agree and made a number of representations through Mr B in response. Ive
read them all in full and have summarised the key points below:
Miss Bs recollection of events was made difficult by the time it took Barclays to look 
into the matter initially, and the time that had passed between the date of the event 
and the date our service had asked her to recall what had happened (almost two 
years).
Miss B has difficulty processing information and questions, and provided a letter from 
her school confirming as much.
A fraudster could have obtained Miss Bs PIN through skimming, phishing or other 
nefarious means. And there was no evidence Miss B had passed her details onto 
someone else.
Mr B was sure Miss B had previously used online banking via her app, but he said he 
would check with Miss Bs local branch.
Mr B felt the timings of the balance enquiries demonstrated that the fraudster had 
been waiting for the £2,800 to clear before using the card. And he questioned why 
Barclays didnt treat the withdrawals as suspicious, given they were out of keeping 
with Miss Bs previous account use.
He also gave a detailed explanation of the timeline of events.
Our investigator considered the additional points but didnt change her answer, so Miss B
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
On 5 April 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms of Miss Bs account, with which both Barclays and Miss B had to comply, say that
Barclays can close Miss Bs account without advance notice in certain circumstances. And
theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Barclays to disclose the reasons
behind its decision.
Having considered the information Barclays has provided, Im satisfied it acted in
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions when it closed Miss Bs account. It
followed the correct procedure and set out all the information it was obliged to in the closure
letter dated 25 June 2019. That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably
uphold this part of Miss Bs complaint.
Disputed transactions
In simple terms, if Im to uphold this part of Miss Bs complaint, Id need to be persuaded that
she didnt authorise the transactions in question. That is to say that she didnt make the
transactions herself, or give someone permission to make the transactions.
All of the transactions Miss B disputes were made using Miss Bs card and PIN. In addition
to that, a deposit of £2,800 was made into Miss Bs account, which she says wasnt her. So,
whoever made that deposit would have needed to know Miss Bs account number and sort
code.
Beyond that, the £2,800 was then withdrawn at a Barclays Assisted Service Device (ASD),
which is a more advanced version of a cash machine. Its located in-branch and requires an
additional layer of security to clear payments. Barclays has provided evidence that shows
the withdrawals at the ASD required the withdrawer to enter details of Miss Bs date of birth.
So, whoever carried out the disputed transactions would have had to have Miss Bs debitcard, sort code and account number, PIN and date of birth.
Miss B first reported the transactions to Barclays on Tuesday 4 June 2019. She did so in a
call to Barclays, in which she said she had lost her card probably last weekend and that her
PIN wasnt with her card and nobody knew it except for her.
When our investigator asked Miss B when she lost her card, she said it was on Thursday 31
May 2019, after shed been to the pub. She repeated nobody else knew her PIN and said
nobody else knew her sort code and account number either. And said she reported the
disputed transactions when she returned home from a weekend away and logged into her
online banking.
It's entirely possible that Miss Bs sort code and account number appeared on her debit card,
so its possible that a fraudster would have known Miss Bs account details, simply by
obtaining her debit card, which of course Miss B says she lost. However, its more difficult to
establish how Miss Bs PIN and date of birth could have been discovered by the same
person.
Miss B says her last genuine use of her card and PIN was on 31 May 2019, at her local pub.
So its possible that a fraudster could have shoulder-surfed Miss B and made a note of her
PIN at that point. However, it would be unusual for a fraudster to wait for three days before
making use of the card. As a general rule, fraudsters attempt to use stolen cards quickly,
before the true owner discovers the card is lost, and reports the loss to the bank which in
turn blocks the card.
Mr B has suggested Miss Bs PIN could have been obtained using phishing or skimming
techniques too. However, Ive seen no evidence to support that suggestion. Miss B didnt tell
either Barclays or our investigator that there was anything unusual about the payment device
she used at her local pub, so I cant reasonably say there was a skimming device attached
to the card machine.
Miss B hasnt told our service that she clicked on any suspicious links around the time she
lost her card. And even if she had, that wouldnt explain how a hacker would have obtained
Miss Bs PIN. Further, that would require the same hacker who tricked Miss B into clicking
on a link to have obtained Miss Bs physical card after she lost it.
I consider that sequence of events to be too remote a possibility, and I cant say on the
balance of probabilities that Miss Bs details were more likely than not compromised in that
manner. And I dont consider it would be appropriate to base my decision purely on
speculation that isnt supported by persuasive evidence.
Aside from there being no likely point of compromise for Miss Bs PIN, I also havent seen
any evidence as to how Miss Bs date of birth could have been compromised. And, as Ive
explained above, Miss Bs date of birth was needed to process the two ASD withdrawals. Mr
B did question why Barclays didnt block the debits given they were out of keeping with Miss
Bs regular account use, but Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to allow the
transactions, given the front-loaded additional security requirements, i.e. Miss Bs date of
birth was required as well as her PIN.
Finally, theres the issue of Miss Bs credibility. Ive listened to what Mr B has said about
Miss Bs impaired ability to process information, and Ive taken into account the time that
passed between the events in question and Miss Bs conversations with our service about
those events. For those reasons, I dont put as much weight on Miss Bs testimony as I do
on the evidence Ive referred to above.With that being said, Miss Bs inconsistency in her testimony does bear mention. When Miss
B called Barclays on 4 June 2019, she was asked if she had previously contacted Barclays
to cancel her card after she had lost it, to which she replied yes. Miss B also initially told
our service she had reported the card as missing as soon as she noticed, which she said
was on 3 June 2019 (although she said it was likely missing since 31 May 2019).
However, Ive seen no evidence to show she asked Barclays to cancel her card and if she
had, I would have expected the payment attempts to be rejected.
Miss B has also presented different versions of events as to how she discovered the
disputed transactions. When she first called Barclays, she said she couldnt get onto online
banking and had had a statement through that showed she was overdrawn, which she
thought was wrong. But when Miss B spoke to our investigator, she said she noticed the
disputed activity by logging into her online banking.
Barclays has provided a screenshot of its system notes that suggest Miss B wasnt
registered for online banking. Mr B did say he would check with his local Barclays branch to
confirm if Miss B had online banking, but I havent seen that he has done so. However, while
it is strange for a customer to be adamant that she has access to online banking when the
banks records show no such registration, I dont consider this to be a turning point for the
complaint. So, I havent attached any significant weight to this point when reaching my
decision.
For the reasons Ive set out above and based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think its
more likely than not that the disputed transactions were either carried out by Miss B, or by
someone with Miss Bs permission. It follows that Im not minded to ask Barclays to refund
the transactions in question.
CIFAS marker
Barclays hasnt disclosed why it applied a CIFAS marker against Miss B, and isnt obliged to
do so. However, Ive looked at the reasons it applied the marker and Ive thought about the
evidence it relied on when it did so. Having done so, I need to consider whether the report to
CIFAS was made fairly.
Barclays needs to have more than mere suspicion or concern. It has to show it had
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the police. What this
means in practice is that bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have entered
Miss Bs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. And secondly, the
bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment.
But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to decide whether Barclays had
sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker against Miss B. Having
looked at all the evidence Im satisfied it has.
Miss B says the funds that entered her account before Barclays closed it werent paid in by
her. But for the same reasons Im not asking Barclays to refund Miss Bs money, I accept
Barclays acted fairly when it applied a CIFAS marker to Miss Bs account. And on the
balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that Miss B either withdrew those funds herself, or gave
someone permission to do so, along with the security details that would be needed.With that being said, if I were satisfied that Miss B wasnt complicit, I could ask Barclays to
remove the marker. But given what Ive said about the most likely explanation of how her
details were compromised, I cant reasonably say she wasnt complicit.
Having independently assessed Barclays rationale and considered the evidence both
parties have submitted, Im satisfied it was entitled to register a CIFAS marker against Miss
B.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or submissions by 3 May 2022. Barclays 
said it had nothing further to add, but Miss B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party responded to the points I raised in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change it. It follows that my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman