DRN-4285654
The complaint
Mr F complains that Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) has unfairly 
asked him to pay their fee for successful mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims
What happened
In August 2019 before the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) deadline for making such 
complaints Mr F instructed FTR to check whether hed been mis-sold PPI. One of his lenders 
Ill call M didnt accept the LoA as a valid authorisation for FTR to act for Mr F.
Mr F said his mis-sold PPI claims with M were upheld in 2020. But in June 2022 he was 
asked by FTR to pay their fee for his successful claims. Mr F said he wasnt able to pay the 
fee in full and offered an amount in settlement, which FTR didnt accept. Mr F also offered to 
pay £100 a month which again was declined by FTR.
Mr F complained to FTR about the way theyd managed his claim and said it was 
unacceptable that he was now being asked to pay this amount, and also about the way he 
was being treated by FTR in pursuit of their fee(s).
FTR said Mr F had instructed them to pursue mis-sold PPI. But it was only after hed signed 
another LoA in March 2022 that they found his claims with M were successful. As theyd 
submitted his claim to M they said their success fee was justified. They also said they 
werent able to accept Mr Fs repayment offer of £100 a month as they dont hold a credit 
licence so any settlement had to be made within 12 months.
Mr F wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr F had instructed FTR to act on his behalf, so their fees were 
justified. But he said FTRs poor management of Mr Fs claim had caused him distress and 
inconvenience, he asked FTR to pay Mr F £75 for this.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in July 2023 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint , Ill explain why.
I can see from FTRs records that Mr F signed a LoA in August 2019, this LoA would initially 
be for a free checking service to establish whether Mr F had been mis-sold any PPI.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide You with the Claims Service
So once a PPI policy has been identified by the lender the free checking period ended and 
FTR would look to provide their claims service. So, the agreement would change from a free 
checking service, to a No win No fee agreement. This means FTR would charge a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This meant any 
work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. FTRs terms and conditions 
go on to give examples of how the fee(s) would be calculated.
What I need to determine is whether Mr F had agreed to FTRs free checking service or 
whether hed a No Win No Fee agreement with FTR.
In May 2020, I can see M said the LoA dated August 2019 wasnt accepted as a valid 
authorisation by them, and they asked FTR to provide another. They also said:
Until we receive the completed LoA, well continue to investigate the complaint, 
corresponding directly with the customer.
This would be considered as an unsuccessful check or negative result as a new LoA was 
needed.
FTR sent Mr F another LoA to sign, and I can see in June 2020 Mr F signed the LoA but he 
also manually amended it providing a new address, but he didnt initial any of the changes 
hed made. As FTR didnt yet know whether there was any PPI to be found I would still 
consider this LoA to only be Mr F authorising FTR to provide their free checking service and 
not their claims service.
Again, this LoA wasnt accepted by M as a valid authorisation. I can see FTR asked Mr F to 
complete another LoA at the end of June 2020 but he didnt sign or return this LoA to FTR.
FTRs records show they took no further action until early 2022 when they again asked Mr F 
to sign a LoA, which he did. And they submitted this to M who told FTR that Mr Fs claim 
had been settled and the amount of compensation hed been paid. And it was from this that 
FTR asked Mr F to pay their success fee(s).
But I dont think FTR had submitted anything other than a free check as without a valid LoA 
the lender M wouldnt consider FTR as being authorised to act for Mr F about a mis-sold 
PPI complaint, which explains why they didnt send FTR their final decision letter in 2020.
And until FTR had identified there was PPI Im not satisfied they had been authorised by Mr 
F to provide anything other than their free checking service.
I accept Mr F signed another LoA in March 2022 but the FCA deemed 29 August 2019 as 
the deadline for mis-sold PPI claims to be made. And any claim received after the 29 August 
2019 deadline wouldnt be accepted by the lender(s). And as M had already resolved Mr 
Fs PPI claim FTR couldnt provide a claims service for him as there wasnt a claim to make.
So I dont consider FTRs fees are justified and I ask them to waive their fee. I understand 
this will have caused Mr F considerable distress because of the financial burden FTRs 
request for payment has caused him but I think the waiving of the fee is sufficient to put 
things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
FTR said Mr F had signed an LoA in August 2019 instructing them to act for him. They said 
the LoA was accepted as it was from the submission of this LoA that the lender started to 
investigate whether Mr F had been mis-sold PPI.FTR said Mr F had signed a further LoA in June 2020 and March 2022 which showed Mr F 
was aware FTR  was acting on his behalf and he was happy for FTR to do so. They said 
their success fee is justified as Mr Fs claim was instigated by the work done by FTR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent been persuaded to change my thinking. I uphold Mr Fs complaint, 
Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that FTR submitted LoA s signed by Mr F to his lender. But as I outlined in 
my provisional decision, I need to be satisfied that in signing the LoAs Mr F was using FTRs 
free checking service or their claims service. If the latter and hed a successful claim FTRs 
fee would need to be paid under a No Win No Fee agreement.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period or PPI Check means the process by which FTR will endeavour to 
identify whether PPI existed on any account(s) provided to You by the Company. The 
service undertaken during the Free PPI Check Period is limited to submitting a Pre-Sub- 
mission or Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) only, on Your behalf, to the Company, 
upon receipt of Us receiving Your signed LOA. The Free PPI Check Period will immediately 
end on the date FTR is notified by a Company that PPI has been identified on any 
account(s). You will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI Check Period
I consider the LoAs submitted by FTR in August 2019 and June 2020 were Pre-Submission 
or Data Subject Access Requests until FTR was notified by the lender that PPI has been 
identified. FTR in their response to my provisional decision confirmed Mr Fs lender didnt tell 
them about any PPI policy Mr F did or didnt have with them. So as the lender hadnt notified 
FTR that PPI had been identified the free checking period hadnt ended. And FTRs terms 
and conditions say Mr F wouldnt be charged anything during the free PPI check period.
From around 29 June 2019, many businesses voluntarily agreed with the FCA that they 
would auto-convert successful PPI checks into complaints. So, if the PPI check was 
accepted it removed the need for a separate complaint to be made. Instead the business 
would automatically treat the original PPI check as though it had been a complaint  and 
look at the merits of the case as normal. But the LoAs submitted by FTR werent accepted 
by Mr Fs lender. 
So, although the lender had the LoA(s) they didnt consider FTR had Mr Fs authority and 
were clear that they would only work with him until they received a valid authority from them. 
As outlined in my provisional decision as the LoAs submitted by FTR werent accepted by 
the lender theyd be considered as an unsuccessful check or negative result. 
FTR only provided an accepted LoA in March 2022 after Mr Fs PPI claim had been resolved 
between him and the lender. So, FTR couldnt provide a claims service for Mr F as there 
wasnt a claim to be made. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim to waive 
their fee.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman