DRN-2841354
The complaint
Ms Ms complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined cover when she made a 
claim for a lost ring.
What happened
Ms M had owned a diamond ring for many years.  Originally, she relied on the cover her 
home insurance provided for valuable items.  But she was advised in 2019 to obtain 
specialist cover for the ring, as it was by then valued at £11,900.  Ms M followed that advice 
and, in June 2019, bought a separate policy to cover the ring and another item of jewellery.  
In early August 2020, Ms M wanted to wear the ring to a family event.  She says she quickly 
looked for it before she went but didnt find it.  When she returned home, she and her partner 
thoroughly searched the house but couldnt find the ring.  So, at the end of September, Ms M 
contacted Aviva to lodge a claim for its loss.  
Ms M explained to Aviva shed last seen the ring at the end of February 2020 when shed 
worn it to a party.  But shed not worn it at home during lockdown, as the design made it 
impractical to wear it when doing various household chores.
Ms M provided documents and information to Aviva.  And she corresponded with a jewellery 
consultant, which led her to believe theyd be settling her claim.  So she was surprised and 
upset when, in late October, Aviva declined her claim.  Aviva relied on an exclusion in the 
policy which said they wouldnt settle claims for Any unexplained loss or disappearance.  
Ms M complained to Aviva about their decision.  She said Aviva hadnt defined unexplained 
loss and suggested that every loss is, in fact, unexplained.
Aviva considered Ms Ms complaint and rejected it.  They said Ms M hadnt been able to 
explain what had happened to the ring, or when it had been lost  which was why theyd 
classed the loss as unexplained.  And, although they didnt uphold her complaint, Aviva did 
offer Ms M £100 compensation for not managing her claim as proactively as we would have 
expected.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it, but didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more than theyd 
offered to resolve the complaint.  He said the fact that Ms M couldnt explain how the ring 
was lost, or more precisely when it was lost within the five month period, meant it was 
reasonable for Aviva to apply the exclusion in the policy.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Avivas decision to decline her 
claim.  Ill explain why.
In cases involving insurance claims, my role is to decide if a business has dealt with a claim 
promptly, fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.  Ms Ms told us that she arranged the 
policy herself, over the telephone.  And that, when her policy documents arrived, she was 
satisfied that her interests were fully protected.
I understand from Ms Ms comment that she read the policy terms.  Ive looked at the terms 
to see whether I think theyre clear.
The policy has a clause setting out what is  and isnt  covered.  The headings used are 
clear.  And one of the categories under the heading What is not covered is Any 
unexplained loss or disappearance.  Again, I think thats clear.  
Ive seen Ms Ms concerned that the policy doesnt specifically define loss, or unexplained 
loss.  Shes suggested that every loss is unexplained  so she doesnt think the exclusions 
fair.
Ive thought about this, but I dont agree with Ms Ms statement.   Its possible, for example, 
for someone to say they were wearing a ring when they started digging their garden  but 
not when they finished the job.  So, while they cant say precisely how the ring came off their 
finger, they can say where they were and what they were doing when they noticed it was 
gone  even if they cant then find it again.
Unfortunately, Ms M cant do that.  All she can say is that she had the ring at the end of 
February and then it wasnt where she expected it to be when she looked at the start of 
August.  I think thats different from being able to say it was lost on or around a particular 
date in a particular place.  Im not persuaded by her argument that every loss is unexplained.
I agree with Ms M that loss isnt defined.  But that doesnt necessarily mean the policy is 
unclear or unfair.  If a terms not defined, wed expect the ordinary, everyday meaning of the 
word to be applied.  Ms M has provided a dictionary definition, which says loss is the act of 
losing or being unable to find. 
I think its clear the policy applies that definition to loss.  I think thats reasonable.  And I dont 
think its unfair not to define that further.  
Even if the term were defined, I dont think it would change anything here, because Aviva 
havent disputed Ms Ms ring is lost  theyve said the loss is unexplained, so an exclusion 
applies.  As Ive said, I think that exclusion is clear from the policy.  I dont agree with Ms M it 
effectively excludes every loss.  So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decline her claim on 
that basis.
Ive seen that, although Aviva declined her claim, they did offer Ms M £100 because they 
said they couldve been more proactive in doing that.  I dont think Ms M has accepted that 
money so far.  But Id expect Aviva to pay it if she now wants them to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman