DRN-3505362
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) doesnt offer stand alone travel 
insurance. 
Mr P says he purchased a Travel Pack, which includes travel insurance and breakdown 
cover, but says he only wants the travel insurance as he doesnt drive. He says he asked if 
Barclays would reduce the cost of the Travel Pack, as he only needs the travel insurance, 
but says that Barclays refused to do this.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and he didnt think that Barclays did 
anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
For me to find in Mr Ps favour, I would need to see that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr P.
I understand Mr P is unhappy because he is paying a fixed monthly fee for a Travel Pack, 
even though he doesnt need the breakdown cover that is also included with the Pack. 
Barclays has explained that each feature store Pack that it sells is marketed and sold as a 
package. This means that account holders who agree to add a Pack to their account do so in 
the knowledge that the specific Pack benefits cant be customised to their specific needs.
What Barclays was obliged to do was clearly set out what was included with the Pack, 
highlight the key terms and exclusions of the insurance benefits and set out clearly how 
much it will cost. From what I have seen it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Barclays did 
this when Mr P applied for the Pack online. Therefore when Mr P applied for the Travel 
Pack, he did so knowing how much it would cost and also that it included a product i.e. 
breakdown cover, that he didnt need. As such I think that Barclays did what it needed to do 
to ensure that Mr P could make an informed decision about whether to add the Travel Pack 
to his account. 
I should also add that Barclays is not obliged to offer any particular product to its customers. 
As such it was under no obligation to provide Mr P with travel insurance. Nor is Barclays 
obliged to amend the price of the pack simply because Mr P is unhappy paying for the full 
cost of the Pack. 
As such, Im unable to say that Barclays is being unreasonable or unfair given that Mr P 
actively chose to add a Travel Pack to his account, and agreed to pay the monthly fee, in the 
knowledge that he didnt need one of the products it provides.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman