DRN-2556494
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander cant locate an old savings account.
What happened
Mr S queried the status with Santander of old savings accounts he previously held with 
Abbey National and Bradford & Bingley as he had found passbooks for the accounts.
After investigation, Santander provided dates which the previous Bradford & Bingley 
accounts had been closed by Mr S in 2014, which he accepts. They said they were unable to 
locate his previous Abbey National account but said it would show up on their systems if it 
was still open but classified as a dormant account in their records. Mr S made a complaint as 
he said he did not close down the Abbey National account.
For closed accounts Santander said they are only required to retain this information for six 
years after an account is closed and had performed back office searches to try and locate 
the account but could not find it. Mr S did not accept the account was closed and complained 
to them. He said that he had the passbook showing a balance and he did not close the 
account.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service as he didnt agree with the outcome. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint but did not uphold it as they were satisfied that 
Santander had exhausted all ways of trying to find the account but were not able to. Our 
investigator also said there was no evidence the account was still open.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the case as he does not believe 
the account is closed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr S is in the possession of a passbook, this is not proof that the account is still open. 
It simply shows that at a point in time the account had funds in it at a particular time and that 
a passbook was in use on the account. As shown by the previous Bradford & Bingley 
accounts an account can still be closed but funds can still show in the passbook.
I have thought about what I would expect Santander to do in these circumstances and if they 
have treated Mr S fairly in their investigation and I think they have. They took the available 
information from him and conducted a search of their systems but no account has been 
found. If the account was still open but inactive, I would have expected to have seen a 
record of it because it would have retained the same account number when Santander took 
control of the account from Abbey. But like the investigator explained, the screen shots dont 
show a result. This suggests that on balance the account was more than likely closed more 
than six years ago.
I do understand Mr Ss strength of feeling but considering everything Ive seen I dont think 
Santander have treated him unfairly. Im satisfied Santander have looked and there isnt a 
record of an account for him. So it follows that I am not going to require them to do anymore. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman