DRN-4447761
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) cancelled their contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T purchased a contents insurance policy online via Sainsburys. When taking out 
the policy Mr and Mrs T chose to pay by monthly instalments, however, Sainsburys was 
unable to collect the first direct debit.
Sainsburys notified Mr and Mrs T several times that theyd need to make contact to set up a 
new direct debit. However, Mr and Mrs T say they didnt receive the notifications, and by the 
time they did, it was too late, and Sainsburys had cancelled their policy.
As Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with Sainsburys they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She was 
satisfied Sainsburys had provided sufficient notification to Mr and Mrs T, and they hadnt 
contacted Sainsburys to set up a new direct debit. So, she concluded that Sainsburys 
hadnt acted unfairly by cancelling the policy.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr and Mrs T set up their insurance policy online and entered bank details for the direct 
debit. Sainsburys was unable to collect the first instalment using the details Mr and Mrs T 
had provided.
Sainsburys notified Mr and Mrs T of this on:
5 April 2023  a letter was sent, and a copy was also uploaded to Mr and Mrs Ts 
online portal, and an email was sent to advise of the uploaded document the 
following day. The letter confirmed that there was an issue with the direct debit 
instruction and Mr and Mrs T needed to telephone Sainsburys on the number 
provided within seven days, or the policy might be cancelled.
6 April 2023  a SMS message was sent to Mr and Mrs T which outlined the direct 
debit had been cancelled, and to prevent the insurance policy being cancelled 
Mr and Mrs T needed to telephone Sainsburys on the number provided.
12 April 2023  this letter outlined that the policy would be cancelled on 22 April 2023 
if Mr and Mrs T didnt contact Sainsburys on the number provided before then to set 
up a new direct debit.
24 April 2023  confirmation was sent that the policy had been cancelled which 
outlined the relevant charges applicable.
Mr and Mrs T say they only received the letter dated 12 April 2023 on 22 April 2023. They 
said to this service that the first available opportunity they had to contact Sainsburys was 
24 April 2023 - when the policy was already cancelled. They say that Sainsburys didnt give 
them sufficient time to avoid the cancellation. 
However, from the information Sainsburys provided, the first contact from Mr and Mrs T was 
actually on 28 April 2023, rather than 24 April 2023. And it appears Mr and Mrs T said they 
couldnt call any sooner due to other commitments.
But in any event, Im satisfied that Sainsburys has shown they notified Mr and Mrs T before 
this letter was sent and received that the policy would be cancelled unless they called to set 
up a new direct debit. The text message outlined above was sent on 6 April 2023 to the 
same number that Mr and Mrs T provided this service. And Sainsburys has shown that the 
copy of the letter sent on 5 April 2023 was accessed and downloaded on the portal by 
Mr and Mrs T on 12 April 2023. So, Mr and Mrs T were notified prior to the letter which they 
say they didnt receive until 22 April 2023.
Mr and Mrs T had also made a manual payment for the missed instalment of £5.76 on 
11 April 2023, so were already aware there was an issue with their payments and direct 
debit. Therefore, on balance, I think its likely they made the manual payment due to 
receiving the notifications prior to this from Sainsburys. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs T have said that they thought making the payment would be sufficient, 
Sainsburys required them to call in to set up a new direct debit, as this couldnt be done on 
the portal. This is because Sainsburys required bank account details, rather than payment 
card details, which is what was provided by Mr and Mrs T when they made the manual 
payment. 
The various communications sent to Mr and Mrs T outlined they needed to call Sainsburys 
in order to stop the policy being cancelled. Mr and Mrs T didnt call Sainsburys to set up the 
new direct debit by the deadline given, and Im satisfied Sainsburys sufficiently notified them 
of this, and what would happen if they didnt. Therefore, I dont think Sainsburys acted 
unfairly by cancelling the policy, so I wont be directing them to do anything further or to 
waive the fees as Mr and Mrs T have asked for. My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman