DRN-3306472
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc are chasing him for a debt that isnt his. He 
says an Ocean credit card was set up fraudulently in his name. 
What happened
The investigator set out the background to the complaint in some detail so I wont repeat all 
the facts here. But in summary. 
- An Ocean credit card was opened in Mr Ms name in August 2019. Mr M says he 
didnt apply for the card or carry out any of the spending on the card.
- Capital One says his correct name, address, phone number, and email address were 
used on the application. Mr M disputes this information and says it was later updated 
to match his, when he contacted Capital One to complain.
- Capital One says a card was sent to Mr Ms home address which he says he didnt 
receive.
- Capital One sent three emails to Mr Ms correct email address prior to him raising the 
dispute. Mr M says he didnt receive  the emails confirmed the application and 
opening of the account.
- Online payments were made debiting the credit card account, shortly after the 
account was opened, for a period of 10 days, totaling £2,899.69. 
- During the course of the disputed transactions a refund claim was raised with Capital 
One about one of the payments. The payer said they had cancelled the order as they 
would have to pay import tax, but the merchant had only offered a credit note rather 
than a full refund. The payee completed a dispute form, using Mr Ms genuine email 
address and postcode. Later the transaction was refunded by the merchant. The 
email address used to raise this dispute is not the same as the email address 
supplied at the application stage, but it is also a genuine email address belonging to 
Mr M and is the email address he has used to correspond with our service when 
bringing his complaint.
- Capital One has provided evidence it sent statements to Mr Ms email address in 
August, September, October and November 2019, which Mr M says he didnt 
receive. 
- Mr M says he became aware of the credit card and debt when he received a late 
payment letter from Capital One in November 2019.
- Mr M says several other credits cards were set up fraudulently in his name at around 
the same time which he is also disputing.
- He has requested a copy of the original application that was made but says Capital 
One hasnt provided this.
- He had a dispute in 2007 with Capital One and a protective CIFAS marker ought to 
have shown this was the case and prevented the fraud from occurring this time.
- He doesnt know how someone could have opened the credit card account in his 
name  he doesnt live with anyone and doesnt share a mailbox either and no-one 
has access to his email.
- He is seeking for the debt and any record of this to be removed plus a compensation 
payment of over £2,000. 
Capital One looked at Mr Ms complaint and said:
- Mr Ms genuine details, that he confirmed over the phone on 20 February 2020, 
matched those used in the application. These details have never been changed.
- The 2007 dispute resulted in Mr M being held liable for the debt. 
- It didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Unhappy with Capital Ones response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things, in summary:
- He listed out all of the disputed transactions, some of which were made via a PayPal 
account or direct with a merchant.
- He was persuaded the payments were authorised, using the correct card details.
- He went on to say he thought Mr M had consented to the payments for the following 
reasons:
oMr Ms genuine email address and phone number were used in application, 
and it would be unusual for a fraudster to do this, as the credit card and 
transactions would likely be identified sooner. 
oIts not clear why Mr M wouldnt have received the emails from Capital One 
with the account opening documents and later statements on the account. As 
he was satisfied, these were sent to Mr Ms correct email address. 
oMr M didnt provide any possible explanation for how someone else could 
have reasonably obtained all his information and then intercepted all of this 
correspondence without his knowledge or consent. 
oAll the disputed transactions were made online and Capital One says these 
would have required the full card details to make them. And the investigator 
wasnt persuaded these could have been intercepted by anyone. 
oHe didnt think a fraudster, or someone acting without Mr Ms, authority would 
raise a dispute about a payment with Capital One in the midst of fraudulently 
using a credit card account.
oHe concluded that whilst the pattern of transactions themselves was unusual 
he wasnt persuaded that the most likely explanation was that this was 
someone other than Mr M. Or someone acting on his behalf that made these 
payments and opened the account.
- He added that any protective CIFAS marker, if it was added in 2007, would have long 
expired when these disputed transactions took place so Capital One didnt need to 
take this into account and/or wouldnt have seen a record of this when this account was 
opened in 2019.
- He didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr M disagreed. In summary he said:
- He checked his eBay account and the disputed transactions did not correspond with 
those on his account. And he doesnt have an account with the other merchant listed. 
However, he later said he did have an account with the merchant but the orders in dispute werent made through his account.
- His date of birth was recently updated with Capital One after he complained.
- His telephone number was updated when he complained to Capital One and isnt the 
same when the fraudulent application was made. Hes only had that number for two 
years so it cant haven been the same number on the application.
- The email address used was not his, it was similar but not exactly the same.
- He still hasnt received a copy of the application he requested from Capital One. He 
says it has provided the ICO with false or misleading information which has been 
tampered with.
The investigator considered the additional points raised by Mr M, but they didnt persuade 
him to reach a different outcome. He said:
- He hadnt said Mr Ms date of birth was used on the disputed application only his 
email address, post code and phone number.
- He double checked the email address, and this looked correct and a match rather 
than being similar as Mr M had thought was the case.
- Mr M had contradicted himself by saying he didnt have an account with the merchant 
that some of the disputed transactions were made to but then later said he did.
Ultimately as Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to 
me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons.
Relevant considerations 
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account. A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions 
they authorise. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
And Mr M doesnt have to have made the transactions himself to be held liable for them. If 
someone acting on his behalf with his consent or authority opened the account and made 
the transactions, then Capital One would be entitled to hold him liable.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded Mr M either made or consented to these 
transactions and Capital One is entitled to hold him liable for the debt. Ill explain why.
My findingsI accept its possible that information about individuals can be obtained and applications, 
such as this, can be made using a customers information without their knowledge or 
consent. But in these particular circumstances I dont think thats the case. 
In order for a fraudulent application to be successful, certain information would need to 
correct. This is in order for the credit reference checks to be successful, leading to the 
approval of the application  for example Mr Ms correct name and address.
But as the investigator pointed out it would be unusual for an unknown third party to use 
Mr Ms genuine email address and mobile telephone number on a fraudulent application as 
this is more likely to quickly uncover the fraud. The credit card provider is likely to contact the 
consumer to discuss the account, or as in this case, send correspondence about the 
application prior to a card being issued or transactions being possible on the account. So I 
dont think whoever made the application was an unknown third party as they ran the risk of 
the account and card being cancelled before any transactions could take place  and that 
didnt happen.
Mr M has suggested the information provided at the application stage has since been 
amended/updated by Capital One, when he has raised the dispute. We have asked Capital 
One for its comments on this. It says the information provided at the application was verified 
as being the same information Mr M provided during a call it had with him in February 2020. 
I cant tell if the information has been updated or tampered with as Mr M suggests. But the 
personal information about Mr M provided says application data So, I have no reason to 
doubt Capital One when it says this was the information provided at the application stage.
And I have seen the dispute form that was submitted during the disputed transactions about 
one of the payments. I can confirm the email address it was sent from is the same one that 
Mr M has used to correspond with our service. The form also asks for an email address to 
correspond about the disputed payment. In this box Mr Ms other genuine email address is 
provided  this is the one he says was tampered with by Capital One. But this evidence 
persuades me that wasnt the case because I can see it was provided here by whoever was 
disputing a payment in the midst of the disputed transactions. And I agree with the 
investigator, that it doesnt seem likely that an unknown third party would raise a dispute 
about one payment whilst using the card fraudulently. 
So Im satisfied that whoever made the application and then disputed one of the payments 
had access to both of Mr Ms genuine email addresses. And Mr M hasnt been able to 
explain how an unknown third party was able to access them in order to open the account, 
raise the dispute and receive the account opening information and statements. 
Mr M hasnt said he thought his email was hacked in anyway and has said no-one else has 
access to his email, as far as he is aware. So, based on the information I have Im satisfied 
that whoever made the transactions has access to two of Mr Ms genuine email addresses to 
correspond with Capital One. And Im not persuaded that this was someone other than Mr M 
or someone acting on his behalf with his consent or authority. 
Mr M says hes only had his current mobile number after the application was made so this 
couldnt have been provided at the time. I accept its possible Mr Ms mobile number could 
have been added at a later date. But Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to support his point 
and Im satisfied that I have enough other information to persuade me that it was Mr M or 
someone acting on his behalf that made the application and carried out the disputed 
transactions.
It would also seem odd for an unknown third party to use a merchant that Mr M does have 
an account with and has used before. Like the investigator I acknowledge that the pattern of spending is quick and utilises the full 
balance on the account. But that in and of itself doesnt persuade me that it was someone 
other than Mr M or someone acting on his behalf or with his consent. 
Other points raised by Mr M
Mr M says he checked his eBay account and it wasnt used for the disputed transactions. To 
clarify - the disputed transactions dont show an eBay account was used to make them, but it 
does show a PayPal account was involved. Mr M hasnt commented on his PayPal account. 
But even if he were to check this and couldnt find these transactions on there, that doesnt 
rule out the possibility that someone else was using this card that was acting with his 
authority or consent.
Mr M has commented that he hasnt received information he has requested from Capital 
One relating to his data. As Mr M has rightly pointed out this is a matter, he should raise with 
the ICO so I wont comment on that here.
My final decision
Overall, I agree with the investigators findings and Im satisfied that Mr M either made or 
consented to the credit card application being opened in his name and so it follows that I 
think Capital One is entitled to hold him liable for the debt. 
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman