DRN-3729069
The complaint
Miss Ps complained that Klarna Bank AB (publ) charged her interest on payments she 
made for bicycles  even though shed been offered an interest-free arrangement.
What happened
In April 2021, Miss P bought two bikes and accessories for £539.99.  The merchant offered 
her the option to pay for this over 12 months, using her financing account with Klarna.  The 
rate of interest offered was 0%.  
Miss P placed her order.  But this was cancelled by the merchant a couple of days later.  An 
identical order was placed about a week later.  But, on this occasion, the interest rate 
applied was 18.9%. 
In February 2022, when her outstanding balance was £122.32, Miss P noticed she was 
being charged interest on her payments.  So she contacted Klarna to find out why.  Klarnas 
agent told her the applicable rate of interest was 18.9% - which would have notified to her 
when she bought the bikes.  
Miss P wasnt happy with this explanation and said shed made the interest saver 
payments, rather than the minimum payments on the basis she thought the agreement was 
interest free.  So she complained.
Klarna considered Miss Ps complaint but didnt uphold it.  They wrote to Miss P, explaining 
that the merchants checkout process made the interest rate clear  as did the monthly 
statements shed received.  But, as a gesture of goodwill, Klarna removed all interest relating 
to the bike payments, which reduced the amount Miss P owed them to £77.99.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with Klarnas response and brought her complaint to us.  She told us 
she thought she should only be charged £539.99 for her purchases.  And she was worried 
about the impact the issue of interest might have on her credit score.  She asked to put 
payments on hold while her complaint was being dealt with.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Klarna didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.   She noted that Klarna had received the credit application from the merchant 
with the interest rate applied  so it was correct for them to apply that rate.  Nor had Miss P 
been overcharged.  And she noted that, notwithstanding theyd not made a mistake, Klarna 
had refunded Miss P the interest shed been charged.
During the investigation, Miss P reported that Klarna had reported to credit reference 
agencies shed missed a payment.  The investigator considered this but concluded that, as 
payments had been missed, it was fair for Klarna to report these.
As Miss P didnt agree with our investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the credit agreement Miss P signed with Klarna.  This sets out Klarnas 
standard rate of interest.  And it details three types of special purchases  to which a 
different rate may apply.
The monthly statements Klarna sent Miss P show the bikes were bought using a Planned 
Payments plan.  The relevant section of the credit agreement says:
If you take up a Planned Payment offer for a Purchase, the credit for that Purchase 
(Planned Payment Purchase) must be repaid in full by the equal monthly payments which 
will be shown in the checkout before you make the Purchase. The payments will include 
interest, which will be charged at a fixed rate stated in the checkout, starting on the day 
after the Transaction Date. 
The monthly statements show that rate to be 18.9%.  However, Miss Ps suggested that her 
statement suggests this rate only applies if she fails to make the interest saver payment 
each month  which she did.
Ive thought about this.  The payment information on the statement says:
Paying less than the interest-saver payment will change your interest rate for any Special 
Purchases you have on your account to the Standard Rate of 18.9%.
But it doesnt say that all special purchases have a rate of 0%.  The statement makes clear 
Ms Ps purchase was a planned payment  and that the planned payments rate is 18.9%.
It appears from the evidence Ive seen that Miss P believed she was getting a 0% rate 
because of information the merchant gave her.  Im sorry if thats what happened.  But I can 
only say Klarna should pay her compensation if Im satisfied they (as opposed to anyone 
else) made a mistake which impacted her.  And thats not the case here.  
And, even though Im satisfied Klarna didnt do anything wrong here, I can see theyve 
removed all the interest charges they made in respect of the purchase of the bikes and have 
advised Miss P the outstanding balance is now £75.16.  Im satisfied that making this 
payment to close her account will mean shes not paid any more than the £539.99 cost of 
the bikes.
Finally, I can see Miss P has complained that Klarna have recorded missed payments on her 
credit file.  While I understand her concern, Klarna  like all financial institutions  have a 
responsibility to provide report issues accurately.  Miss P has missed payments.  Klarna 
have evidenced they warned her of the potential consequences of doing so.  So I dont think 
they need to do anything differently here  or do any more to resolve Miss Ps complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint about Klarna Bank AB 
(publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman