DRN-2923085
The complaint
Mr T complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused to accept a claim under his home 
insurance.
Mr T bought a home insurance policy through Home Protect, underwritten by AXA. As Mr Ts 
complaint is about a rejected claim, his complaint is against the insurer (AXA). 
AXA uses a third party to handle its claims and most of Mr Ts correspondence has been 
with this third party. For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to AXA includes its agents, 
including its claims handler.
What happened
Mr T had an AXA home insurance policy. On 3 October 2020, following a night of bad 
weather, he discovered water had come though his roof and pooled in one of the upstairs 
rooms. He made a claim on his home insurance to fix the roof and repair the water damage. 
AXA rejected the claim. It told Mr T that, while his policy covered him for storm damage, the 
weather conditions at the time didnt meet the policy definition of a storm.
Mr T was unhappy with this. He explained that his home is on a high ridge therefore subject 
to stronger winds than average, and that his roof was in previously good condition. He also 
believes the definition of a storm should have been highlighted more clearly in his policy 
schedule. Finally, he suggested that, if AXA didnt accept there was a storm, the damage to 
his home fell under the policy definition of a flood. He wants AXA to settle his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She agreed with 
AXA that the weather conditions at the time werent a storm under the policy terms. She was 
also satisfied that the damage to Mr Ts home wasnt caused by a flood. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mr Ts cover only makes AXA liable for damage caused by certain insured 
events. So identifying damage exists isnt enough alone to make AXA liable for repairing it; 
the damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy. 
Section 1 of Mr Ts policy covers him for loss or damage caused by a storm. The policy 
booklet defines a storm as: A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, 
or rainfall of at least 25mm per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such 
intensity that it damages hard surfaces or breaks glass.
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
So the first thing Ive got to consider is: were there storm conditions on or around the date of 
the claim? 
AXA reviewed the weather information from the nearest weather station to Mr Ts home for 
the three days before and after 3 October 2020. This showed maximum winds of 36mph the 
day before the damage, well below the policy threshold of 55mph.
Ive checked this against our own source of weather data. The data for the closest weather 
station to Mr Ts broadly matches AXAs findings. I dont know why this data doesnt exactly 
match AXAs, but the strongest wind recorded in the week before Mr T discovered the 
damage was 38mph on 27 September. The average daily wind was no higher than 20mph. 
Even if I accept Mr Ts statement that the wind where he lives is typically 20-40% higher than 
surrounding areas, thats still well below the policy threshold.
This weather station recorded total rainfall of 35mm in Mr Ts area on 2 October, with a 
maximum hourly rainfall of 5.2mm. Again, this is well below the policy threshold. 
Ive looked at the Met Offices website and its information for the 2020/21 storm season. This 
shows Storm Alex hit the UK from 2 to 4 October 2020. Ive thought very carefully about this, 
and Ive looked at local news reports of the storm in Mr Ts area. Ive also thought about 
whether AXAs policy threshold is too high. After all, Mr T might reasonably question AXAs 
definition when the Met Office said there was a storm the night of the damage to his home.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the storm was more severe in other parts of the country. 
The main feature of the storm  in Mr Ts area at least was very heavy rain rather than 
storm force winds. There was only one weather station in the part of the country Mr T lives 
that recorded winds above 36mph, and that was on the coast over 30 miles from Mr Ts 
home. 
In general, the winds were significantly lower, consistent with the weather data that both 
AXA and I reviewed. The Met Office analysis of the storm says: in general this storm was 
more notable across the UK for rain than wind. And, as AXA said, I dont think this level of 
rainfall  although intense  should penetrate a well-maintained roof. Instead, its more likely 
to reveal existing damage.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the weather conditions immediately before Mr T 
discovered the damage to his home dont meet the policy definition of a storm. And I dont 
think it was unfair for AXA to reject his claim on that basis.
Mr T believes that if he isnt covered under storm damage, he should be covered under flood 
damage. He argues that the definition of flood in his policy booklet (Sudden release or 
rapid build-up of water from outside the Home or Outbuildings entering into the Home or 
Outbuildings) is what happened in his case.
While I understand the argument, I dont agree with him. I think most people would accept 
that an insurance policy offering protection against flooding would understand flood in its 
normal sense  that is, an overflow of water from, say, a river or drain. Case law also holds that a burst pipe or overflowing lavatory can cause a flood. However, none of that is what 
happened here. In this case, heavy rain came through Mr Ts damaged roof. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that the flood protection in Mr Ts policy doesnt apply.
One final point on definitions. Mr T believes his policy schedule should set out the definition 
of a storm. I dont think it needs to. Mr Ts insurance contract is both his policy schedule and 
his policy booklet. The booklet sets out the general cover that applies to all policyholders; the 
schedule sets out any limits, cover and special conditions that relate only to Mr T (for 
example, total sum insured, cover for high risk items, voluntary excesses, etc). 
So I wouldnt expect to see the storm definition in Mr Ts policy schedule because this isnt 
specific to him. Instead, its set out in the Definitions in his policy booklet. So I dont agree 
with Mr T that the policy definitions should be highlighted in his policy schedule.
For the reasons above, I dont think the weather conditions in Mr Ts area at the time of the 
damage to his home can be defined as a storm. And I dont think the flood protection in his 
policy applies. For those reasons, I think AXAs decision to reject his claim was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman