DRN-4126579
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont reimburse the money 
she lost after she fell victim to an investment scam. 
Mrs D is being professionally represented but for ease Ill refer to Mrs D throughout. 
What happened
In late 2019, Mrs D was looking to invest some of her money. After some online research, 
Mrs D came across a company Ill refer to as E. After contact with E, Mrs D proceeded to 
make a payment of £250, as a trial promotion, on 9 January 2020, to the payee details given 
to her. She received information about the initial investment and said she could see it was 
increasing. Upon completion of the trial period and to become a full member/client, Mrs D 
then went ahead and made a further payment of £4,750 on 22 February 2020, to the payee 
details given to her by E. 
Around August 2020, Mrs D realised shed fallen victim to a scam when her contact attempts 
werent responded to and E was uncontactable. Mrs D reported the matter to Action Fraud in 
October 2020, but the scam wasnt raised with Nationwide until 17 May 2022, as Mrs D said 
she wasnt aware she could raise this with the bank to investigate. It was only after Mrs D 
was in contact with the professional representative that she was directed to the bank.
Nationwide investigated Mrs Ds fraud claim, and it issued its final response letter in 
October 2022 not upholding it. Nationwide said when Mrs D set up the new payees when 
making the payments in 2020, she was provided with a tailored warning. It also didnt think 
Mrs D had taken reasonable steps to check if the payments were genuine. Nationwide 
attempted to recover the funds from the receiving banks (the accounts the funds were sent 
to), but no funds remained. 
Mrs D was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and upheld the complaint in part. She didnt 
think Mrs D had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, in particular, she 
thought there was enough going on that Mrs D ought to have some concerns about the 
payments she was making. 
She didnt think Nationwide needed to provide an effective warning for the initial payment of 
£250 as she didnt think a scam risk would have been apparent to it. However, she thought 
the second payment of £4,750 did present an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam risk. 
She considered the warning Nationwide say Mrs D was presented with at the time of making 
the second payment, but she didnt think this was effective or that Mrs D had ignored an 
effective warning under the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). 
Overall, she concluded liability for payment two ought to be shared between both parties  
that Nationwide should reimburse Mrs D 50% of payment two, along with 8% simple interest.  
Nationwide responded and accepted our Investigators view. 
Mrs D didnt accept the Investigators view. Our Investigator considered Mrs Ds further 
comments, but her view remained unchanged. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mrs D authorised these payments. However, Nationwide has signed up to 
the CRM Code. Under that code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an APP scam. There are a limited set of circumstances set out 
in the code in which a firm can choose not to fully reimburse its customer and Nationwide 
has argued that two of those exceptions are applicable in this instance.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
I have carefully considered Nationwides representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mrs D had a reasonable basis for belief. 
I will firstly turn to the representations made about the warnings Nationwide say were 
presented to Mrs D at the time of making the payments. I am in agreement with our 
Investigator about payment one. I dont find the payment of £250 presented an APP scam 
risk and so I dont find Nationwide was required to provide an effective warning under the 
CRM Code for this payment.
Following our Investigators view, Nationwide has accepted to reimburse Mrs D 50% of the 
second payment of £4,750  accepting 50% liability for this payment. As such, I dont find I 
need to consider the representations about the warnings for payment two further in this 
particular case, given that Nationwide has agreed to reimburse 50% of this amount. 
However, I note Mrs Ds representative has suggested that an intervention beyond a written 
warning was warranted here and wouldve made a difference. But I think an effective written 
warning wouldve been enough in the circumstances of this case. 
With the above in mind, I will now address whether Mrs D had a reasonable basis of belief 
when making the payments. Nationwide can decline to pay a refund if Mrs D made the payments without a reasonable 
basis of belief that the transactions were legitimate. Ive considered this point carefully when 
thinking about both of the payments Mrs D made. Having done so, Im not persuaded Mrs D 
had a reasonable basis for believing that the payments she was making were for genuine 
investments, that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, and/or that the 
person or business with whom she transacted with was legitimate. I will now explain why.
Mrs D has said she saw positive reviews about E, albeit potentially for a cloned website. She 
adds that there was reasonably no way that she would have been aware of this fact. Mrs D 
has said she carried out her own due diligence by researching E in November 2019. She 
didnt proceed to invest straightaway and says she looked into E again in January 2020. She 
says she looked at online reviews as well as on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mrs D said she could see the company was regulated. She told us this led to her believing 
the company was genuine. 
Unfortunately, its not been possible to see what Mrs D saw about E in November 2019 
when she carried out her research. There has also been some contradictory information 
provided about the FCA. As set out above, in parts Mrs D has said she checked the FCA 
and could see E was regulated. Yet in the response to our Investigators view, it was 
commented that not all consumers are aware of the FCA website. With this in mind, Ive 
thought carefully about everything Ive seen and been told. From my own research, E 
doesnt appear to be UK FCA regulated but when searching online for E there is an entry 
from an overseas financial services commission that shows an entry on 3 December 2019 
warning about E being a cloned firm. On balance, Im persuaded it is more likely than not 
that had Mrs D checked the FCA website she would have seen E didnt appear as UK 
regulated and, that she would have more likely than not have come across the warning from 
December 2019 when carrying out her research as she recollects. It follows that Im 
persuaded that this ought fairly and reasonably to have been a flag to Mrs D and have led 
her to proceed more cautiously when making these payments. 
I do recognise Mrs D feels strongly that she shouldnt be held 50% liable for the loss on the 
basis that the information she says she saw in November 2019 can no longer be found. Id 
like to assure Mrs D that this is not the case. Simply based on the information available to 
me, on balance, I think the information she more likely than not wouldve seen ought to have 
caused her some concern. 
Mrs D made the payments to two different payees, both of which were not in the name of the 
company she believed she was investing in. Mrs D says she questioned the two different 
payee names with E, and she was told that the initial payment for the trial/taster period was 
kept separate from full members investments. Whilst I recognise Mrs D did enquire about 
the payee details with E, I think what she was told ought fairly and reasonably to have 
prompted her to ask further questions and proceed with more caution. While to some extent I 
can accept that E might have had different accounts for the two different payments 
(separating the trial period from the full members payments), that does not explain why 
neither of the payee details appeared to be connected to the company name with whom she 
believed she was investing in and was in contact with. I think this ought to have prompted 
Mrs D to think about what she was plausibly being asked to do.  
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mrs D from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that 
Mrs D ought reasonably to have been concerned that things werent as they seemed. Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mrs D had a reasonable basis for believing 
that she was making payments for a genuine investment, that the payee was the person she 
was expecting to pay, and/or that the person or business with whom she transacted with was 
legitimate. 
Ive also carefully taken into account what Mrs D has said about her circumstances at the 
time of making the payments. Id like to assure her that I dont underestimate the impact the 
whole experience will have had on her and that Ive thought carefully about what shes said. 
But I dont think what Ive been told was significant enough to have meant Mrs D couldnt 
have taken steps to protect herself from the scam she fell victim to. 
I want to emphasise though that this is not to diminish the circumstances she was in at the 
time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on her. It is simply that I dont find the 
evidence would justify a finding that Mrs D was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
herself here. 
Recovery of funds
Ive also considered whether Nationwide did all it could to try and recover the money Mrs D 
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwide did 
what it was expected to do, unfortunately no funds remained. But in any event, Im mindful 
that the scam payments were reported to Nationwide in May 2022, which was two years 
after the payments were made. In these circumstances, given the time that had passed 
since the scam payments had been made and reporting them, I dont think there was 
anything more Nationwide couldve done to recover Mrs Ds funds. 
Distress and inconvenience
Im mindful Mrs D and her representative have referred to a specific amount of 
compensation she considers fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
She has also commented that the bank should indemnify her for any legal costs. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs D has said but Im mindful that the substantive cause 
of Mrs Ds distress and inconvenience was caused by the fraudster. While Nationwide has 
accepted equal responsibility with Mrs D for the second payment, she made in respect of the 
warning provided, Im satisfied the settlement proposed below puts things right - including 
the recognition for the time Mrs D has been deprived of her funds. I dont intent to penalise 
Nationwide for the actions of the fraudster nor Mrs Ds decision to instruct professional 
representatives in this case. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that both parties ought fairly and reasonable be held liable for the loss of 
payment two. 
To put things right, Nationwide Building Society should now put things right by:
Reimburse Mrs D 50% of payment two, which I calculate to be £2,375;
As Mrs D has been deprived of the use of these funds, Nationwide should pay 8% 
simple interest per year from the date it declined Mrs Ds claim under the CRM Code 
to the date of the settlement. 
If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Nationwide Building Society. 
I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of 
receiving notification of Mrs Ds acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman