DRN-4179337
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) have not refunded him for a booking he made on his credit card.
What happened
Mr G booked hotel rooms in December 2019 costing in excess of £4,000. It was for a stay in 
August 2020 for guests due to attend a wedding. However, due to the global pandemic the 
wedding could not go ahead. Mr G cancelled the booking for the hotel rooms and explained 
the situation to the hotel (the supplier).
Because the booking was non-refundable the supplier would not offer a full refund. Instead it 
offered a partial credit of £418.96 and a voucher for future use in the hotel. 
Mr G says he didnt get the partial credit back from the supplier, and says he was not able to 
make use of any voucher. So he approached Amex to help him. It considered a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but did not uphold it. As a way of 
settling the matter it offered to honour the partial credit the supplier offered.
Mr G was not happy with the outcome of the claim he made to Amex, but it didnt change 
things. So Mr G took his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, she concluded that Amex had not 
been unreasonable in declining a Section 75 claim as there was no breach of contract by the 
supplier. She also noted there were no chargeback rights which would have allowed Mr G to 
claim for a full refund, and at most Amex could have recovered the part credit promised by 
the supplier.
Mr G has asked the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 20 April 2023:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr G and his family cancelled a wedding due to circumstances surrounding 
the global pandemic. This meant they had no use for the hotel rooms that had been paid for. 
But it is worth noting that Amex did not market or supply the hotel booking which is the 
subject of this dispute. Nor is Amex generally responsible for putting right unfortunate events 
caused by the global pandemic. In considering what it should fairly do to resolve matters I 
consider its specific obligations as a provider of financial services. Here I have focused on 
the relevant card protections  in this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
It is also worth noting from the outset that while I am provisionally finding a different outcome 
to our investigator, for the reasons detailed below I am not directing Amex to pay Mr G the 
full refund he wants. And while Mr G has said he knows of others who have received full 
refunds I am looking at his case on the individual circumstances.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mr G to make a like claim against Amex for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it has with him for the provision of goods or services.
Certain criteria need to be met in order that Section 75 will apply in any given circumstance. I 
am satisfied such criteria are met here. I also note that although the accommodation was 
marketed and booked through an online travel agent, the credit card payment was made 
directly to the supplier. Therefore, I consider the relevant Section 75 claim here is respect of 
the agreement with the supplier rather than the travel agent.
 
I have gone on to consider if there has been any misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
the supplier which would give rise to a successful claim against Amex. I dont consider that 
misrepresentation is relevant or being claimed here so I have focused on breach of contract.
Unfortunately, I have not been provided or been able to obtain the terms and conditions of 
the supplier that relate to Mr Gs booking. The process of booking the hotel through the 
online travel agent appears to allow for bookings which are both refundable and not 
refundable. In this case I note the supplier in email correspondence to Mr G (after he 
contacts it about the problems) states that the booking is non-refundable and indicates its 
offer is based on goodwill. Furthermore, from what I can see Mr G has accepted that the 
booking he made was non-refundable but has instead focused on the pandemic (and events 
beyond his control) as a reason he should get the money back. 
On the basis that the booking is non-refundable there appears to be no breach of contract by 
the supplier here. I say that because it was not the supplier that cancelled the booking  it 
was Mr G. And while I appreciate Mr G has stated it was because of the unfortunate 
circumstances around the pandemic (an event clearly out of his control) it appears that the 
supplier was still able to provide the service agreed. Furthermore, I have not had sight of any 
contractual terms that oblige the supplier to provide a refund in these circumstances. 
Because of this there is technically no breach of contract by it which would give rise to a 
claim against Amex.
Furthermore, even if the supplier were prevented from opening due to restrictions imposed 
as a result of the global pandemic (which I dont think has been suggested at this point) it 
would also unlikely be considered a breach of contract. It might be considered a frustrated 
contract, but this does not give rise to a claim against Amex under Section 75.
Because there is no breach of contract by the supplier Amex is not liable via Section 75. And 
while I accept the supplier promised a refund and a voucher this appears to be a goodwill 
gesture rather than evidence of a breach. It follows that any failure to receive the offer (as Mr 
G has alleged) does not give rise to a breach in the context of the Section 75 claim against 
Amex.
To conclude  because there is no persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier I dont think that Amex has acted unfairly in declining the 
Section 75 claim here.
ChargebackThe chargeback scheme is one way which Amex might have been able to recover funds for 
Mr G. However, it is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. I have considered the 
information I have in order to decide if Amex has acted fairly here.
I understand Amex did not raise a chargeback for Mr G. It has pointed to the fact that it 
considered a Section 75 claim instead. However, I dont think considering matters under 
Section 75 prevents Amex from fairly considering and raising a chargeback if appropriate. 
However, while it is often good practice to raise a chargeback I think Amex would only be 
expected to raise one that had a reasonable prospect of succeeding in the particular 
circumstances. 
In respect of obtaining a refund for the cancellation of the hotel booking I am not persuaded 
there is a chargeback reason code that had a reasonable prospect of success here. It could 
be argued that a reason code for a service not received is the most relevant one here. 
There is a question mark over whether Mr G contacted Amex in time for it to raise a 
chargeback for a service not received. But even if there were time to raise a chargeback 
the service as far as I can see was provided and available to use. It was just that Mr G and 
his party were unable to make use of it. So I dont think a chargeback is likely to have 
succeeded on these grounds in any event.
I note the supplier did promise Mr G a credit for part of the payment but didnt process this. 
So it is arguable that a chargeback for a credit not presented would have been a viable 
option for Amex. It is not entirely clear to me how the scheme rules would apply in this 
particular situation and whether Amex would have been in time to raise a chargeback. I note 
there appears to be a 120-day time limit from when the supplier agrees a credit is due. 
However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I have taken note that:
-although the original offer of a refund was made by the supplier in June 2020 the 
dialogue between the supplier and Mr G about the refund appears to continue up 
until March 2021 (where the supplier requests information from Mr G in order to 
process the refund) and in July 2021 the booking agent confirms a refund request 
has been sent to the supplier and might take 15 days to complete
-Amex has not provided compelling reasons why a chargeback for the promise of part 
credit would not have succeeded and has also agreed to honour the credit offered by 
the supplier (and says it has paid this to Mr G) in any event
I do not know for sure if Amex has paid Mr G the part credit yet but if it has not done so I 
consider in the particular circumstances it is fair and reasonable to do this. 
Customer Service
Mr G has complained about the way Amex handled his claim. In summary, he indicates that 
the case was closed without explanation, his emails were blocked, and it took too long to 
give him an answer.
Amex says it didnt close the claim without warning. However, from what I can see it closed 
the claim as a result of not getting sufficient information back from Mr G and wrote to Mr G 
to say this. Mr G responds to say he did send the information. I note that Amex in its final 
response letter in reference to claims it blocked emails explains that the email address Mr G 
was using for the Section 75 team was being decommissioned and not used for external 
email communications. Furthermore it explained that the email address it is using will only accept responses within a strict time frame and the emails Mr G sent did not fulfil this 
criterion. However:
-it seems likely Mr G did send Amex information in response to its request(s), but 
emails were blocked for the reasons Amex describes; 
-while the blocking was clearly not intentional it is not reasonable for Amex to have 
expected Mr G to know that he wasnt able to email certain addresses or that his 
responses would not go through if sent outside certain timeframes unless this was 
clearly explained in advance (and I cant see where it was); and
-even if Mr G had not sent Amex the information it needed, Amex could have been 
clearer about what exactly it had received and what it needed before closing the 
case.
Furthermore, I can see Amex opened the Section 75 claim in July 2021 but didnt give Mr G 
an outcome until around January 2022. This seems to be too long on the face of it. Amex 
has indicated that it had times where it was waiting for information from Mr G however I think 
most of the delays in getting information were because Amex had not been clear about how 
Mr G could send the information or what format Amex needed to view this (it later refers to 
needing PDF format). Furthermore, it appears that even when Amex considered it had 
everything it needed it still took another three months or so to provide an outcome.
I think Amex could have been clearer with Mr G, and even though it says there is no time 
frame set out for considering a Section 75 claim I think overall things took longer than they 
needed to. I note what Mr G has said, and to me what has occurred has caused him 
frustration and annoyance more than the level he might reasonably have expected. I think 
Amex should therefore pay £150 in compensation for the way it handled the claim.
My provisional decision
I direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express to 
pay Mr G the £418.96 credit he was promised and £150 in compensation.
I asked the parties for their comments:
Mr G said in summary:
the hotel promised to refund the full amount within 15 days as advised by the online 
travel agent but then changed its mind; 
he kept on requesting the vouchers, but these did not arrive before the deadline to 
use them; and
he has not received any payments from Amex and it has let him down very badly and 
not been helpful when dealing with the claim.Amex responded to say, in summary:
it is not liable for the credit offered by the merchant as this is a goodwill offer and is 
compensation for the claim Mr G made  it is only able to claim a chargeback in 
relation to a charge for goods and services; and
£150 compensation for its customer service is unreasonable  the Section 75 
process does not have a regulated timeframe and the pandemic is responsible for 
delays  while it appreciates there had been a delay due to correspondence going to 
an unused email address this was addressed when the issue arose and 
correspondence sent from the Section 75 contained the correct receipt address, 
therefore this shouldnt be counted as an AmEx error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. I have considered these 
carefully. However, I have focused on what I consider to be the key matters here rather than 
comment on everything. This reflects my role resolving disputes informally.
I have considered Mr Gs comments, but it doesnt change my provisional findings. In 
summary, I dont think there is persuasive evidence that the hotel whom Mr G contracted 
with for the rooms promised Mr G a full refund or contractually owed him one. The email I 
have seen from the hotel is clear that the hotel is not willing to offer a full refund as the 
rooms are non-refundable. I dont think the third-party booking site was in a position to 
guarantee refunds here but acted as a go between.
Mr G has referred to the fact the vouchers did not get sent in a timely fashion  however, as I 
have said in my provisional decision, the vouchers were not offered to remedy a breach of 
contract here  but as a goodwill gesture. Therefore, with Section 75 in mind  there is no 
breach of contract which Amex is liable for in respect of the travel vouchers.
I have considered what Amex has said about why a chargeback would have failed. It says:
The main difference with this is that we are looking at goodwill offered by the merchant. 
They actively offered that as compensation for the claim that the Cardmember made. A 
chargeback that we can claim for would be in relation to an [sic] charge for goods and 
services.
However, although I accept the offer of credit was a goodwill gesture  I am not persuaded 
that this means it is not a promised credit of a specific charge for services. Firstly, I note that 
the hotel in its email to Mr G about the refund specifically says that it will refund the charge in 
respect of certain rooms equating to £418.96. This indicates the merchant (goodwill or 
otherwise) has promised to credit a precise amount paid attributable to part of the service 
rather than make a general and unrelated offer of global compensation. 
In fact I note that Amex has previously written to us to say that it reviewed the claim and 
provided a refund of £418.96 on 14th January 2022, for a refund which had not been applied 
by the merchant. So what Amex has said here is not consistent with what it has said more 
recently. I think what it said initially to this service indicated that a chargeback would have 
succeeded for a credit not processed. I also note that Amex has not provided any 
information from its actual chargeback rules to show that Mr G would not have been eligible 
for a successful chargeback dispute based on the promised credit not being processed.  Taking into account the lack of clarity here from Amex about its specific chargeback rules 
along with what on the face of it appears to be a promised credit of a specific charge for 
services  I still consider it fair on balance that Amex refund the £418.96 to Mr G (which Mr 
G says he has not received). However, due to the particular circumstances here I am not 
asking it to pay additional sums (such as interest) on this amount.
I note Amex has disputed my decision to award £150 compensation for its customer service 
and has now focused on the pandemic as a reason for delays. I was not unaware of the 
context of the pandemic when deciding the initial figure of compensation. However, even 
considering this I have already explained in some detail in my provisional detail why I think 
that Amex caused Mr G unnecessary inconvenience including not being clear with him 
about its email policy (causing emails to get blocked) and closing his case without being 
clear about what information it needed.  
I also still consider that even though Section 75 has no set time for handling claims in the 
source legislation Amex could have handled things better. I note in its finalised April 2021 
guidance called Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to 
refunds the FCA says the following:
Credit and debit card providers 
3.7 We expect credit and debit card providers to handle section 75 and chargeback claims in 
a reasonable timescale, and remind firms of their obligations to treat customers fairly. If there 
are delays in processing claims, firms should clearly explain the reason for the delay.
I consider that although the pandemic would impact what would be a reasonable timescale  
here we are talking about what is reasonable over 1 year on from the start of the pandemic. I 
am also not persuaded that Amex communicated with Mr G in a clear way regarding any 
delays either as I note that in November 2021 it is Mr G who is chasing for updates and 
Amex responds but the reason it gives for the delay is not the pandemic but something else.
I am also unclear on what Amex means when it has said recently about its emails containing 
the correct receipt address. I think from the evidence I have already seen it is quite clear 
there were particular restrictions on Mr Gs responses to certain email addresses and I am 
not persuaded Amex explained all this clearly to him from the outset. Everything considered, 
Amex has not persuaded me that an award of £150 is unfair here.
In summary, the parties have not added anything which causes me to change my proposed 
outcome. I still consider it to be fair and reasonable for the reasons given here and 
incorporating my provisional findings (as copied above). 
Putting things right
Amex should put things right according to my direction below.
My final decision
I direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express to 
pay Mr G the £418.96 credit he was promised and £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman