DRN-2852284
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Gold account.
Lloyds charged Mr T a monthly fee for the Gold account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. 
Mr T thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think
that Lloyds had mis-sold the Gold account to Mr T and didnt recommend that it should give
him any money back.
Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr T and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr T banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that it had sold him the 
Gold account by September 2001 and possibly before that. It doesnt have detailed records 
going back that far, so cant tell us the exact date. However, it does have detailed records 
from 2001 onwards and has told us that Mr T closed the Gold account in 2006. I have no 
reason to dispute these dates and I have taken them as being accurate. 
Mr T has told us that Lloyds sold him the Gold account in a meeting at one of its branches, 
which I fully accept. He has also told us that before Lloyds sold him the Gold account he had 
held a fee-free account, although Im not sure if that was with Lloyds or another bank. 
Not surprisingly, given that the meeting happened such a long time ago, there are no 
detailed notes or documents from the time, so I cant tell exactly what happened. Instead, I 
have looked at the evidence that is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred. 
Over the years, Lloyds and other banks were allowed to sell packaged bank accounts, like 
Gold accounts, in two ways. They could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Lloyds used for Mr T, I would have expected it to give him a choice and 
tell him about the Gold accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale, I would 
also have expected it to check that the Gold account was a reasonable match for his 
circumstances before making its recommendation. 
Both Mr T and Lloyds have told us that Lloyds recommended the Gold account to him, so I 
have considered this complaint as being about an advised sale. 
Up to and including 2001, the benefits of the Gold account included travel insurance, 
commission-free foreign exchange and card protection insurance. And if customers kept 
over a certain amount in their Gold accounts throughout a particular month, Lloyds would 
cancel the monthly fee for that month through a fee-waiver scheme. After 2001, Lloyds 
varied these benefits from time-to-time. (For example, in 2004, it added use of a car 
breakdown service to the range of benefit). Lloyds was allowed to make changes like this but 
had to tell its customers what it was doing.
Mr T has told us that he travelled from time-to-time and so it seems to me that he may have 
had a potential need for travel insurance. Lloyds has told us that while Mr T held the Gold 
account he usually qualified for the fee waiver and it charged him the monthly fee fewer than 
ten times. And Mr T has told us that after Lloyds sold him the Gold account he cancelled 
some products he already held from other sources because they duplicated some of the 
benefits of the account. So, while I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mr T 
during the meeting, I think it was reasonable for it to recommend the account to him; and it 
also seems to me that it must have told him about the benefits he would get.
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mr T about the monthly fees, as it wouldnt have 
been credible for it to present the benefits as being totally free of charges or conditions. And 
as Lloyds was trying to sell the Gold account to Mr T, I also very much doubt that it failed to 
tell him about the fee-waiver scheme.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds denied Mr T the choice to have a fee- 
free account. In 2001, such accounts were widely available in the UK, from Lloyds and other 
banks, and still are today. So, I doubt that Lloyds told Mr T he couldnt keep the fee-free 
account he already had. 
Mr T has also specifically mentioned that he had separate use of a car breakdown service. 
But this wasnt a benefit of the Gold account until 2004, so is not particularly relevant to the 
way Lloyds sold him the account. Lloyds has also told us that in 2004 Mr T called out the 
service the Gold account provided, so Im satisfied it told him it had added this benefit. Mr T 
has also said that when he used some of the benefits of the account he had to pay an extra 
fee. He hasnt given us a great deal of information about this, and Im not sure what this 
extra fee may have been for.  However, I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Lloyds gave him incorrect or misleading information about the Gold accounts benefits. 
So, in summary, while I accept I cant tell for sure that Lloyds got everything right in the way 
it sold the Gold account to Mr T, Im satisfied that it gave him reasonable advice, told him
about the benefits the account could provide and gave him a choice about buying it. I also 
think it told him about the monthly fees and the fee-waiver scheme. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Lloyds
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021. 
Ombudsman