DRN-4391133
The complaint
Mr K complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined his claim and avoided his 
policy (treated it as though it never existed) following the theft of his car, under his motor 
insurance policy. 
Mr K is represented by his solicitor. I will refer to Mr K in my decision for ease. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen in July 2022. He made a claim to esure but it declined to provide cover 
and avoided his policy. Mr K says hed told esure he was the registered keeper. But the 
registered keeper was actually a company that Mr K is a director of. He says this was a 
genuine mistake and esure has unfairly avoided his policy. 
In its decline letter esure says its routine checks following Mr Ks claim revealed he wasnt 
the registered keeper as declared in his application. It says he also failed to declare a 
speeding conviction. Had it known Mr K wasnt the registered keeper, it says it wouldnt have 
offered cover. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She says Mr K provided inaccurate information regarding the 
registered keeper of his vehicle. Had esure known he wasnt the registered keeper she was 
satisfied it wouldnt have offered cover.  
Mr K disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
esure thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
stated in his application that he was the registered keeper of the vehicle. Ive looked at
the questions he was asked when he completed the application. The question about the 
registered keeper is clear. Mr K told esure he was the registered keeper, which wasnt 
correct. I note what he says about not being in possession of the V5 logbook at the time of 
the application. But as per the CIDRA rules he must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. I dont think he did take reasonable care here.
 
Mr K incorrectly assumed that he was the registered keeper of his vehicle. Ive seen the V5 
logbook, which confirms a company is the registered keeper. Mr K didnt correct this after he 
received his policy documentation. I can see this instructed him to contact esure immediately 
if any information was incorrect. His policy schedule explains that it may reject any claims if 
this isnt done. 
esure has provided evidence from its underwriters that shows if Mr K hadnt made
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have provided cover at all. This means that Im satisfied
Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I note his solicitors comments that its 
unlikely an insurer would refuse cover purely because the registered keeper was a corporate 
body and not the policyholder. But as above, Ive seen esures underwriting criteria. This 
confirms cover wouldnt be provided in these circumstances.   
I think Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless rather than reckless or deliberate. Hes 
explained why he assumed he was the registered keeper. This is because the vehicle was to 
be kept at his home address. And that he would be responsible for its upkeep, taxing, and 
any traffic collision or speeding violations. I accept he genuinely thought he had provided 
accurate information to esure. But he hadnt and this was his mistake. I think he could 
reasonably have checked who the registered keeper of his vehicle was. 
Having considered all of this I think esure treated Mr K fairly and in line with the CIDRA 
rules, when declining his claim and avoiding his policy. Its required to provide a refund of Mr 
Ks premium, again in line with the CIDRA rules. But as its already done so, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman