DRN-3038010
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs E say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage started in 1977. They didnt take out PPI at this time  it wasnt 
until 1991 that they took out the policy when they borrowed extra money by way of a further 
advance. This appears to have all taken place during a branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs Es mortgage payments in the event Mrs E 
(she was the insured person) couldnt work because of accident, sickness, or 
unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and it cost a little 
over £8 a month.
At the time of the sale Mrs E was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay. Mr and Mrs E said they had no other 
means such as savings they couldve used to make their mortgage payments if Mrs E wasnt 
working. And finally Mrs E said she didnt have any health problems at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they wasnt 
enough evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs E didnt choose  to take out the policy. And there 
was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for them at the time. But they thought 
Nationwides payment to Mr and Mrs E of some of the money they paid for the policy in 
relation to the non-disclosure of high commission and profit share was fair.
Because Mr and Mrs E disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. My reasons are set 
out below.
did Mr and Mrs E have a real choice about PPI? 
Mr and Mrs E say they were pressured to take out the policy. Mrs E says she was under 
immense pressure personally at the time of the sale and wasnt in a position to make an 
informed decision to purchase the policy.
For me to fairly and reasonably uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint that undue pressure was 
placed on them to take out the policy, Id need to see something else to support what they 
say happened. But theres limited evidence available  unfortunately Nationwide doesnt 
have any of the paperwork from the time and theres no record or notes from the meeting. 
But this isnt surprising given how long-ago things happened - businesses dont have to keep 
records indefinitely.
All I do have is Mrs Es circumstances from the time. And in considering these, it doesnt 
strike me as odd that Mr and Mrs Es took out PPI. For example Mrs E was the sole 
household wage earner and they were extending their borrowing and so increasing their 
mortgage payments. 
So given the limited evidence about an event which happened over 30 years ago, I cant 
now fairly say that Nationwide more likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being 
optional or that Mr and Mrs E didnt have a real choice about taking it out.
did Nationwide provide Mr and Mrs E with advice?
Nationwide says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs E to take out PPI or recommend it to them. Mr 
and Mrs E say it did provide advice. 
But given the limited evidence, Ive not seen enough in this case to persuade me that 
Nationwide did, more likely than not recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs E. This means 
Nationwide didnt have to ensure the cover was right for them - but it did have to give them 
enough clear and timely information so they could make that decision for themselves.
But in any event, even if I thought Nationwide did provide advice to Mr and Mrs E and it 
recommended the cover to them, given Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time, which I 
have set out in the section below, I dont think PPI was unsuitable for them. So it wouldnt 
have been wrong for Nationwide to have recommended it to them.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. So I agree with Mr and Mrs 
E that its likely they werent in a position to make a fully informed decision. But as I found 
above, I think its likely Mr and Mrs E chose to take out the policy - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And based on their circumstances at the time it doesn't appear 
that it was inappropriate for them. For example Mrs E as the person insured was eligible for 
the cover and she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such 
as those for unusual employment circumstances or existing medical conditions.
Ive already said that Mrs E was the sole wage earner and given the policy would have paid 
out for longer than her sick pay entitlement  up to 24 months per claim - it seems like it 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs E if something went wrong. And at less than £10 a 
month it also looks like it was affordable. 
So, while I accept that Nationwide might not have done everything it should fairly and 
reasonably have done when it sold Mr and Mrs E PPI, in light of their circumstances at the 
time I dont think it was wrong for them - so I don't think better information would've put them 
off taking it out.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.non-disclosure of commission 
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs E about that. Because it didnt tell them, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have said - including what they said in their most 
recent letter in response to the adjudicators assessment of their complaint. But these points 
dont change my decision. For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs E any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this - so theres nothing more it needs to do to put things right 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman