DRN-1809235
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) turned down his claim under his home insurance 
policy following a burglary.
Where I refer to QIC, this includes its agents and claim handlers.
What happened
Mr K contacted QIC to make an insurance claim following a burglary. QIC turned down the 
claim because the burglars had entered Mr Ks home through an unlocked door, so there 
was no forced and violent entry, which was a requirement for it to meet the claim terms. Mr K 
complained to QIC and asked that it be considered as a malicious damage claim. QIC said 
that the theft of goods didnt meet the definition of malicious damage, so wasnt covered 
under this part of the policy.
Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that it 
was reasonable for QIC to turn down the claim as it didnt meet the policy terms for a theft 
claim or for malicious damage.
As Mr K did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Ks account of what happened when burglars entered his home while he and his 
family were present, which Im sure was a very distressing incident. Mr K has said that the 
burglars broke through a side gate and then, unsuccessfully, tried to gain entry through the 
locked back door. He said that both the gate and the back door were damaged. The burglars 
then went to the front door, which was unlocked, and were able to open this and enter the 
house. Mr K said that his family was still up and hadnt gone to bed for the evening. Mr Ks 
family was threatened and the house was ransacked. Mr K said his property was damaged 
and several valuable items were stolen.
The first issue is whether the burglary was covered under the theft part of the policy. The 
policy says:
5. Theft or attempted theft
We will cover loss or damage:
i. caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your home; or
ii. where deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
This cover does not include:a. Theft or attempted theft by any person who is lawfully in your home; and
b. Loss or damage while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished.
We may require you to have minimum security precautions in place. Please check your 
schedule for any specific endorsement.
For it to be regarded as theft, there must be both forced and violent entry. Mr K has said that 
the burglars gained entry to his home through the unlocked front door. Although that could 
be regarded as forced entry  gaining access through having to turn a door handle could 
be regarded as force  there was no evidence that violence was also used to gain entry via 
the front door. So, QIC turned down the claim.
I dont think the requirement for there to be force and violence is a significant or unusual 
restriction. QIC is simply trying to limit the risks it covers, which it is entitled to do. In this 
instance, QIC said that it would not provide cover for theft where someone has gained entry 
through, for example, an unlocked door or window. It explained this both in the main policy 
terms document and also in the key facts document, where it said under what is not covered 
Loss or damage by theft, unless force and violence was used to enter your home.
On that basis, I think it was clear in what circumstances theft wouldnt be covered and that it 
was reasonable for QIC not to accept this as a theft claim given that the burglars entered via 
the unlocked front door.
Mr K has also said that he thinks the burglary should be covered as a malicious damage 
claim. The wording in the policy says:
Malicious damage or vandalism
We will cover loss or damage caused by malicious people or vandals.
This part of the policy needs to be read in the context of what malicious damage is. This isnt 
defined in the policy, but QIC defines it as 'the crime of intentionally causing damage to the 
property. Im aware that Mr K has described damage to the property - in that the gate and 
back door were damaged. However, he wants this part of the policy to be used to accept his 
claim for the items that were stolen. But this part of the policy isnt about theft, it is about 
damage and vandalism. 
The inclusion of the section on malicious damage doesnt mean that the policy will cover any 
loss where there may have been malicious intent by a person. If that were to be the case, 
any and all types of loss and damage would be covered so long as malicious intent could be 
shown, regardless of any limits or exclusions contained in the policy. In addition, I havent 
seen evidence that the burglars intent was to cause malicious damage, albeit that some 
damage was caused when they tried, and failed, to gain entry through the side gate and 
back door. Their intention was theft. So, the theft part of the policy was the relevant section 
under which the claim needed to be considered. On that basis, I dont think that the 
malicious damage part of the policy can fairly be interpreted to cover the circumstances that 
Mr K says it should. So, I think it was reasonable for QIC not to accept the claim under the 
malicious damage section of the policy.
Mr K also highlighted an endorsement that was added to his policy, which he argued should 
mean that his circumstances were covered. The endorsement said:
All specific terms, conditions and/ or endorsements applied to your cover  to be read in 
conjunction with your policy wording document.Theft and malicious damage excluded if security requirement not met.
We will not pay for loss or damage caused by any theft, attempted theft (see cover 5) or 
malicious acts (see cover 8) (see Section 1 - Buildings and Section 2 - Contents) when:
1. there is nobody lawfully in Your Home; or
2. the residents have gone to bed for the night in the main building;
unless
a) any theft or attempted theft involved forced and violent entry to Your Home; and
b) the keys are removed from all locks and are out of sight or reach of a potential intruder; 
and
c) the locks declared in Your application for insurance are fitted, maintained and put into full 
and effective use.
The endorsement needs to be read in its full context which, as the above says, means 
reading it in conjunction with the policy wording. This is because the endorsement is in 
addition to the standard policy wording rather than wholly replacing it - the wording in the 
policy itself still applies. This endorsement describes two specific circumstances, which are 
when nobody is lawfully in the home or when residents have gone to bed, and explains what 
measures must be taken for the relevant terms to apply. It wasnt saying that in all other 
circumstances a theft claim would be accepted. QIC also didnt turn down the claim because 
of this endorsement, as it was aware that Mr K and his family were in the home and that they 
hadnt gone to bed. It turned it down on the basis of the wording in the main policy, which still 
applied. So, on that basis, I dont think the endorsement is relevant in the context of this 
claim.
Ive carefully thought about all of the above. Im very sympathetic to Mr Ks circumstances, 
including the distressing event that led to him making a claim, and can understand that he 
wants his claim to be accepted. But, having looked at the full circumstances of this claim, Im 
of the view that it was reasonable for QIC to turn it down. So, I dont think that QIC needs to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman