DRN-3556515
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (BPF) granted her a fixed sum 
loan agreement (agreement) that was unaffordable for her and that the goods supplied to 
her under that agreement were misrepresented to her.
What happened
Mrs H has had some assistance in bringing her complaint to our service by a third party. But 
for ease I will simply refer to Mrs H in this decision, rather than both Mrs H and the third 
party.
In March 2014 Mrs H purchased a boiler costing of £20,950 from a company that I will call 
E. As well as supplying and fitting the boiler, E (on Mrs Hs behalf) brokered the agreement 
granted by BPF.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs H undertook to pay 
£950 to E (by way of an advance payment/deposit) and 120 monthly payments of £259.18 to 
BPF, making a total repayable of £32,051.60 at an APR of 10%. 
In July 2020 Mrs H complained to BPF  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75)  that the boiler had been misrepresented to her by E, inducing her into 
purchasing it. And that the agreement it had granted her (for the purchase of the boiler) was 
unaffordable from the outset.
In August 2020 BPF issued Mrs H with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL BPF said:
we have no obligation to investigate the points you have raised. 
This is because the Limitation Act 1980 deems that complaints regarding 
goods/services and the associated finance acquired are time barred after a six year 
period.
your complaint is time-barred and the Ombudsman is therefore unable to consider 
this complaint.
Despite the above, we are sympathetic to your situation and, as a gesture of 
goodwill, we are prepared to look into the affordability of the loan...on receipt of 
copies of your bank statements from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014
In September 2020, and unhappy with BPFs FRL, Mrs H referred her complaint to our 
service for investigation.
In December 2020 BPF confirmed to our service that, in its view, we had no jurisdiction (on 
the grounds of time) to consider Mrs Hs complaint and to date it hadnt received copies of 
her bank statements for 2014.
In July 2021 one of our investigators contacted BPF to say that in her view Mrs Hs 
complaint about its decision not to consider (decline) her section 75 claim was (on the 
grounds of time) something we had the jurisdiction to consider.
In December 2021, and having obtained Mrs H bank statements for 2014, the investigator 
asked BPF to reconsider Mrs Hs complaint about the agreement being unaffordable from 
the outset. 
In December 2021 BPF confirmed to our service that it believed the agreement wasnt 
unaffordable for Mrs H (from the outset). But in any event, this aspect of Mrs Hs complaint 
was, in its view, out of our jurisdiction on the grounds of time.
In January 2022 our investigator issued her view on Mrs Hs complaint. In summary she 
concluded that BPF had done nothing wrong in declining Mrs Hs section 75 claim and her 
complaint about the agreement being unaffordable was something our service (on the 
grounds of time) indeed had no jurisdiction to consider.
In January 2022 Mrs H confirmed to our service that she didnt accept the investigators view 
and would like her complaint considered by an ombudsman. She also said that she would 
provide further reasons why she [wanted] to challenge the [investigators view in due 
course].
In June 2022, and having heard nothing further from Mrs H, the investigator wrote to both 
parties to say the complaint would now be passed to an ombudsman for review and decision 
and that:
We should already have all the information [needed] to reach a decisionIf you have any 
further points or information youd like [us] to consider, please send these to [us] by 
6 July 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the investigator came to the right outcome.
First, I would like to point out that Im aware that Mrs H said she would like to provide, and 
would be providing, further information in support of her complaint. But Im satisfied
she has already had enough time to do so and I dont think anything further is needed for me
to be able to fairly and reasonably decide this complaint. Therefore, I see no good reason to
delay the issue of this decision. I would also add that our service needs to be fair to
both parties to a complaint and we cant keep complaints open indefinitely.The rules applying to this service say that, where a business doesnt consent (as BPF 
doesnt in this case), I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can 
be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Or we can provide a copy on 
request. 
Mrs H purchased the boiler, and signed the agreement, in March 2014. So, with this in mind 
and given that Mrs H didnt refer her complaint to our service until September 2020 (and to 
BPF until July 2020), it follows that this complaint has been made more than six years after 
the event being complained about. 
That means I need to consider whether Mrs H complained to our service within three years 
of when she was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, she had grounds to do so. 
Having considered what Mrs H has said and submitted very carefully, Im satisfied (like the 
investigator) that she was aware, or ought to reasonably have been aware, of cause for this 
aspect of her complaint by mid-2015, one year after her agreement payments had started. 
So, this means that for this complaint to have been referred to our service in time under this 
test she needed to have referred it by mid-2018 but didnt do so until 2020. 
Im allowed to investigate complaints made outside the time limits where Im satisfied the 
failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. But I 
havent seen any information to show this happened.
I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed, but I agree with the investigator that this aspect of 
her complaint has been made to our service too late to be considered by us.
I will now turn to the second aspect of Mrs Hs complaint, this being that BPF was wrong to 
decline her section 75 claim.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Given Mrs Hs complaint is about a claim made against BPF under section 75 naturally this 
constitutes relevant law. But what is also relevant law is the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) and 
what is relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards is the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Principle 6 which states:
 A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The LA is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of action that 
a party can pursue. As Mrs Hs right to claim against BPF under section 75 is on the same basis of her right to 
make a claim against E, I consider the relevant time limits set out in the LA are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation.
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 2 of the LA states:
An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. 
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation.  
In this case Mrs H says what she was told by E about the boiler was what induced her to 
make the purchase and to enter the agreement.  
So, Mrs Hs financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay £20,950 for the boiler with E 
and when she entered into the agreement with BPF for the same in March 2014.
Mrs H raised her claim with BPF in July 2020 which is more than six years from when the 
damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued.
Section 9 of the LA states:
An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any enactment shall not be brought 
after the expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mrs Hs claim against BPF is under 
section 75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But Im not persuaded this changes the position compared to the other 
provisions in the LA. Section 75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation  effectively making BPF step into the shoes of E.
This means that the limitation period under section 9 is the same as under section 2 and 
gives rise to effectively the same cause of action.
In this decision Im considering whether BPF has acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
when dealing with Mrs Hs section 75 claim. Its for the courts to ultimately decide whether or 
not any right to claim against E (and so BPF) has expired under the LA. But given the 
information available and representations made by both parties, Im satisfied BPF has 
applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I accept that Mrs H might not have been aware of any time limits that would affect her ability 
to make a claim. But because the time limits are set out in law  I cant say its unreasonable 
for BPF to apply them. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mrs H was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cant fairly ask BPF to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs H, but I can assure her Ive considered everything impartially.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman