DRN-2894755
The complaint
Mr M is complaining Wakam has cancelled his commercial vehicle insurance policy and 
declined a claim he made for the theft of his car. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy to insure his car and 
to enable him to work as a private hire driver. He took the insurance policy out through a 
broker and applied for it through a comparison website. Shortly after taking out the policy his 
car was stolen. So he claimed for the loss off his insurance policy. 
Wakam declined the claim as it said Mr M had given incorrect information about how long 
hed held a private hire licence  hed said hed had it for one year, but hed only held it for 
about five months. It highlighted Mr M had obtained numerous quotes in the previous five 
months for private hire insurance policies and had provided different information  
sometimes saying zero years, sometimes less than six months and sometimes saying hed 
held a licence for one year. It thought Mr M had either deliberately or recklessly provided 
false information. So it cancelled his insurance policy and declined his claim. 
Mr M complained to Wakam and raised the following points:
He thinks the application should have asked for the number of months hed held the 
licence;
He didnt think he provided false information as he said hed held a licence for more than 
zero years;
He believes he should have had a period of time to update the information he provided 
when applying for the policy;
Wakam shouldnt have accepted the policy based on the information hed given; and 
He says he gave Wakam the date he got his licence, so he didnt think he needed to 
change anything. 
Wakam maintained it had acted fairly so Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This required Mr M to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer so that it had enough information to assess the level of 
risk it was willing to provide and on what terms. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what the Insurance Act describes  a 
qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the breach. If 
the qualifying breach was reckless or deliberate, and the insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
breach wasnt deliberate or reckless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would 
not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the breach.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying breach wasnt deliberate or reckless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer had made an actual fair presentation of the risk, it 
will have to consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
When Mr M applied for the insurance policy he was asked how many years have you held a 
taxi badge? Mr M had held the licence for around five months. But he said hed held it for 
one year. Mr M said hed had it for more than zero years, so disputes hed answered this 
incorrectly. But I disagree. He hadnt had the licence for a year, so he provided an incorrect 
answer to this question. So Im satisfied there was a qualifying breach. 
Wakam has highlighted that Mr M made numerous different applications over the months 
before taking out the insurance policy and had provided a variety of different answers  
fluctuating from saying zero years, less than six months and one year. So it thinks the 
qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless. But Im also conscious that this was through a 
number of different comparison websites. And, by Wakams own admission, Mr M was 
asked different questions and given different answer options. 
For a qualifying breach to be deliberate or reckless, the insurer has to show that Mr M 
knew the information he provided was untrue or misleading or he didnt care whether it 
was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the breach related was relevant to the insurer, or did not 
care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. 
Ive considered Mr Ms explanation for why he didnt answer the question correctly. I think 
Mr M made a mistake and Im not persuaded he deliberately looked to provide false 
information or didnt care the information was incorrect. So Im not persuaded this was a 
deliberate or reckless breach. 
So, usually, Id say Wakam should consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it 
accepts it. But, Wakam didnt avoid the insurance policy  it cancelled the policy and 
backdated the cancellation to 6 March 2020. So its chosen to validate the insurance policy 
for the time it started (24 February 2020) up until 6 March 2020. But Mr Ms car was stolen 
on 25 February 2020. So, given Wakam chose to not avoid the insurance policy, it means 
the policy remains valid for when the car was stolen.
Wakam has highlighted that the terms of the insurance policy allow it to decline a claim in 
the event of a misrepresentation. But I do not think this is fair. The law sets out what an 
insurers rights are where a consumer fails to make a fair presentation of the risk. And I dont 
think its fair to rely on a term of the policy which is contrary to what the legislation sets out. 
So I dont think Wakam can fairly rely on this term to not settle the claim.
Ultimately, by choosing to not cancel the policy back to the beginning, I think Wakam has 
lost its right to amend the terms of the insurance policy to decline the claim. So I think 
Wakam should reconsider Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
Wakam responded to my provisional decision to say it would settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis. It said Mr M had paid 54% of the premium he should pay, so it thinks its 
only required to pay 54% of the claim. And it said it would deduct the full annual premium 
payable from the claim. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision and he said he didnt have anything else to add. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me anything else to think about in respect to the merits of this 
complaint. So I uphold the complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. But 
Wakam says its entitled to settle the claim on a proportionate basis and deduct the full 
annual premium from the settlement.
Ive thought about what the Insurance Act 2015 says and, where a misrepresentation is not 
deliberate or reckless, it says the insurer should settle any claim proportionately. It also says 
the insurer can subsequently cancel an insurance policy. 
Had Wakam reviewed this claim correctly, in line with the Insurance Act, it should have 
settled this claim proportionately based on the proportion of the annual premium Mr M paid 
against what he would have paid had he given a fair presentation of the risk. It also could 
have cancelled the insurance policy after settling the claim. 
Further to this, the terms and conditions of the policy say the full annual premium is payable 
where a claim is made  regardless of whether the policy was active for the full 12 months. 
Wakam says it wants to deduct the annual premium from the claim settlement and I think 
thats fair. 
So I think Wakams proposed way of settling the claim is fair, although it should only deduct 
the annual premium Mr M paid when he first took out the insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Wakam to reconsider 
Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. It accepts the claim it should 
settle it proportionately. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman