DRN-3185078
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to his application to port 
his mortgage. He complained that NBS showed bias/prejudice towards him when they 
assessed and subsequently declined his application, resulting he feels in personal and 
financial loss.  
What happened
In October 2020 Mr W obtained a mortgage with NBS which carried with it an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC). In November 2020 NBS gave Mr W a Decision in Principle (DiP) 
for a new mortgage in his name alone (first DiP). He did not however proceed with a full 
application for that mortgage, and in January 2021 made a further application for another 
DiP (second DiP) for a mortgage in joint names with his then partner. 
This second DiP was declined by NBS as it fell outside of their lending policy as a result of 
adverse credit information relating to his partner. The mortgage consultant (MA) made some 
changes to the first DiP and resubmitted it but that was also declined by NBS underwriters 
as it was again outside their lending policy because the second DiP had been declined.
Mr W unsuccessfully appealed the underwriters decision. NBS said it couldnt agree to any 
further lending to Mr W if his partner was to reside in the property, but they would agree to 
his porting his mortgage without there being any further advance. In response Mr W notified 
NBS that his partner had her own accommodation and was not reliant upon him and as such 
asked NBS to reconsider. NBS maintained their position denying that they had shown bias 
or discriminated against him and that his application had simply fallen outside their policy.
Following that, and as Mr W had sold his own home, he redeemed his mortgage and in so 
doing triggered the ERC fee. Mr W asked NBS to waive this, but they declined.
Mr W was unhappy with NBS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr W didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The existence and parameters of the application of the ERC are not disputed by Mr W. 
Neither is it disputed that he made the first and second DiP applications or the results of 
those applications. Mr Ws argument is that simply because NBS have a policy doesnt mean 
that the policy should be viewed as acceptable, and further that it should only be his credit 
rating which is considered not his former partners.
There is no complaint about the first DiP since it was granted. The second DiP was declined 
because Mr Ws then partners credit history revealed adverse information. It was clearly 
correct for NBS to consider Mr Ws partners credit information in the second DiP since she 
was going to be a party to the mortgage. In determining this second DiP application NBS 
have applied their lending policy and internal credit scoring process which resulted in the 
application being declined. I cannot see that in this respect they have acted unfairly.
I can however understand why Mr W subsequently feels that the same adverse information 
relating to his former partner ought not to be considered when he submitted his amended 
first DiP application. But, what NBS actually did was to look to their lending policy when 
assessing that application. I have read the policy which specifically deals with a person 
making an application in their sole name, after they have made an application in joint names, 
and which was declined. The policy states quite clearly that such applications should not be 
accepted irrespective of the applicants financial status.
The question which follows is whether NBS have acted fairly towards Mr W in sticking to 
their policy. Its not the Financial Ombudsman Services role to recommend how financial 
businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  thats 
for them to determine. We dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and 
procedures and have applied them fairly. Whilst I appreciate that Mr W feels there is an 
element of discrimination, I cannot see that NBS have treated Mr W any differently to any of 
their other customers. Their policy was very clear and specifically dealt with the position Mr 
W found himself in and I think NBS followed it fairly.
I also considered Mr Ws complaint that he wasnt able to port his mortgage over to his new 
property. The reality was that he was able to port the mortgage but not able to take any 
further advances if he did. I accept that in effect meant so far as his initial intention was 
concerned he was then unable to port the mortgage. But it is the wish to have a further 
advance that stopped his mortgage being ported. In effect he was seeking a new mortgage 
and that fell within NBS policy as I have described above. 
Ive also considered whether refusing to waive the ERC was fair. NBS position is that it has 
simply stuck to the agreement it entered into with Mr W when he took out the mortgage. 
There is no evidence that Mr W was unaware of the ERC or when and how it would be 
triggered. So, I cant say NBS have acted unfairly here in imposing the ERC. It isnt, it is 
merely sticking to the agreement made and Mr W would have been aware of the potential to 
the ERC when he took out the mortgage and when he decided to sell his property.
It follows that as I dont think NBS have acted unfairly I do not find that Mr W has suffered 
any financial or personal loss and I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman