DRN-3942957
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a charge card for a department store. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with that view 
and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs J will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld the complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
At the outset, I want to make clear that when Im considering a complaint and the facts are in 
dispute (as they are here), I must apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I will 
decide whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence thats before me. 
The first thing I want to clear up is why this complaint has been set up against Allianz, rather 
than the policy seller. In response to our adjudicator, Mrs J said she had not complained 
about Allianz, who is the insurer in this case.
I cant consider this mis-sale complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale 
took place before the policy seller was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or otherwise covered by the jurisdiction of this 
service.
Allianz has accepted that the policy seller was acting as its agent at the time and so it has 
accepted responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Allianz in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
Ive looked at how the policy came to be sold to Mrs J. Ive seen a copy of the application 
form Mrs J completed for her charge card. It looks as though the application was made by 
post. I say this because the application form shows the address to where Mrs J needed to 
return the application form. It also shows where she needed to moisten to seal the 
application form before posting. 
Our adjudicator sent a copy of the application form to Mrs J. In response, she said that the 
form was not completed by her and that the signature was not hers. She also said that there 
was a discrepancy in the dates on the application form  she had signed it on 28 February 
1997, and it had been signed on behalf of the lender on 3 March 1997. 
I dont think there is a discrepancy with the dates in this case. I say this because if the 
application was made by post as Ive set out above, the lender wouldnt be able to sign the 
form on the same day as Mrs J because it wouldnt have received the document on the 
same day. For postal sales, Id usually expect to see the lenders signature appear a few 
days later. 
Ive next considered what Mrs J told us about the handwriting on the application form and 
signature not being hers. I accept that what Mrs J told us is what she honestly believes to be 
the case. However, there doesnt appear to be a dispute that Mrs J received the charge card 
and had the benefit of it. As this was a postal sale, I think it is unlikely that the application 
was completed by someone on behalf of Allianz. And given the level of detail on the 
application form about Mrs Js personal circumstances, I cant reasonably say it wasnt 
completed by her. On that basis, as this was a postal sale, I think Mrs J would have been 
able to complete the application form in her own time and at her own pace. 
With that being so, Ive looked at whether it would have been clear to Mrs J that the PPI was 
optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see PPI was set out on a 
separate section of the application form. Im satisfied Mrs J most likely read that section 
because she as well as ticking the relevant box to agree to take the policy out, she had to 
set out who she wanted to be insured and their date of birth. I think it would have been clear 
to Mrs J that if she didnt want PPI, she could have just left that section of the form blank. 
Mrs J said she had tried to unsuccessfully cancel the policy on several occasions, which 
shows she didnt want cover. In her view, our adjudicator made reference to five successful 
claims Mrs J had made on the PPI over the years. However, Mrs J said she had not made 
those claims and that they had been made without her knowledge by Allianzs call handlers. 
Again, I accept that what Mrs J told us is what she honestly remembers here. But I cant 
reasonably say her recollection is accurate. I say this because I can see that in order for a 
claim to be accepted, Mrs J would have needed to complete a claim form and provide proof 
of her medical conditions. I cant say a successful claim would have been agreed following a 
conversation with a call handler without Mrs Js knowledge and without any medical 
evidence being supplied by her. 
On balance, I think its most likely Mrs J knew about the PPI and that she could have refused 
it at the point of sale if she didnt want it. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale because the cover looks to have been sold by post. 
That means Allianz should have given Mrs J enough information about the cover so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form and the basic cost of the cover is clearly set out. 
However, I cant see that it was made clear Mrs J may have to pay interest on the cost of the 
premiums. On that basis, I agree with our adjudicator that the information Allianz gave Mrs J 
at the point of sale could have been better. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint as Mrs J suggested. Thats 
because I must go on to consider whether Mrs J would have acted differently if Allianz had 
told her everything it should have about the policy. To help me decide on that point, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what Mrs J told us 
about her personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed needed to make a successful claim on the policy, 15% of Mrs Js 
outstanding card balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work 
because she was unwell or if she was made redundant. Each claim could have lasted until 
the balance was entirely repaid. 
I can see that Mrs J had been in her job just for over two years when the cover was sold. On 
that basis, I think its likely that she would have had some sick pay from her employer. 
However, the amount of pay she would have received is unclear. I can see Mrs J initially told 
us that she couldnt remember what sick pay shed have received. However, she later said 
she would have had six months full pay and six months half pay. 
If I accept Mrs J would have had six months full pay and six months half pay, it seems to me 
that the PPI would have lasted for longer than her full pay. In any event, with a PPI policy, she could have used her sick pay on her other essential expenditure at what could have 
been a very stressful time if she was out of work. 
I understand Mrs J was in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think she would 
have been excluded by any of the policys exclusions on medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her job that would have stopped her from being able to make a 
successful claim if she needed to. With all of this in mind, I cant objectively say that Mrs J 
would have acted differently if shed been given more or better information about the cover. 
Im satisfied PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator said that the rules about commission arising from the Plevin judgment did 
not apply in this case. Mrs J did not agree. However, Ive explained above why Mrs Js 
complaint has been set up against Allianz. Mrs Js credit agreement was set up with a third-
party lender and not Allianz. That means the unfair relationship provisions do not apply to 
Allianz and I am unable to consider the non-disclosure of commission in this decision. 
Finally, I can see that Mrs J suggested Allianz had not paid out on her complaint because it 
was time barred even though she had provided her identity documents. I want to clarify that 
although there was some confusion as to whether documents had been received from Mrs 
Js former representative, Allianz now accepts the complaint was made in time. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Allianz had agreed to uphold the complaint or was waiting for 
identity documents before it would pay out to her. Rather, it had requested additional 
identity documents because it wanted to verify Mrs Js identity before it considered the 
complaint at all. 
I appreciate Mrs J will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above, I 
dont uphold this complaint. Allianz is not required to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman