DRN-2893841
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) settled a claim 
under his home insurance policy.
Im aware that Mr A is represented in this case but, for ease, I have only referred to Mr A, as 
he is the policyholder.
  
What happened
Mr A had a fire in his home. So, he contacted RSA to make an insurance claim. RSA dealt 
with a range of damage to Mr As buildings and contents. For the contents part of the claim, 
Mr A had a £75,000 limit. When RSA settled that part of the claim, it initially offered him 
£63,063.50. However, RSA then reduced this to £49,492.20 because it had previously paid 
Mr A £5,000 in emergency costs and it said the company, R, dealing with repairing or 
replacing the contents had invoiced for £20,148.03.
So, Mr A complained to RSA. However, RSA didnt reply, so Mr A complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. RSA still hadnt provided evidence of its costs but, 
based on the information available, our investigator said the amount payable shouldnt be 
limited by the fees associated with claim handling and no breakdown of the costs had been 
provided. The investigator also noted that during the claim RSA had expressed concerns to 
R about the escalating costs. He said RSA should remove the cap imposed because of Rs 
invoice and pay the full contents settlement of £63,063.50 and pay interest on the difference 
between the previously settled figure and the full settlement amount. He said RSA should 
also pay Mr A £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
As RSA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and these allow for RSA to choose how it will 
settle a claim. These said RSA would attempt to repair items or, where this wasnt possible, 
it would replace them. Where it wasnt possible to repair or replace the items, the policy said 
RSA would make a cash payment. I havent seen anything to suggest that it was 
unreasonable for R, acting on RSAs behalf, to think it could successfully restore a large part 
of the contents, primarily through cleaning. So, I think it was reasonable that it attempted this 
first.
However, some of that cleaning wasnt successful and so R then decided those items were 
beyond economic repair (BER) and a cash settlement was offered for them. RSA has now 
provided a breakdown of Rs costs for the claim. However, it still isnt possible to understand 
exactly what these costs were for, including identifying the costs for individual items. The 
specific part of R that was dealing with the claim no longer operates, so it isnt possible to 
get a more detailed breakdown. However, I asked RSA what would have happened if Rs 
attempt to clean an item was unsuccessful. RSA replied:
Any items where cleaning was attempted and failed, would have been chargeable to the 
contents claim and we would have then paid the BER settlement for this on top. There is no 
other way of doing this, as if cleaning was not attempted, the claim cost would have been 
even higher as the claim cost includes numerous items where cleaning WAS successful 
thereby reducing [the] overall claim value.
As Ive already said, I think it was reasonable to attempt to clean the items first and Im 
aware that, at least in part, this was attempted because of the size of the contents claim. 
However, a repair needs to be lasting and effective. Where this isnt the case, these arent 
normally costs that can be included in the total sum insured. So that means that where Rs 
attempt to clean an item was unsuccessful, these costs couldnt be deducted from the 
settlement amount paid to Mr A. However, according to RSA those costs were deducted. I 
dont think that was fair or reasonable.
Im aware that RSA did query a number of the costs charged by R. Following this, some of 
the costs were reduced. However, the specific part of R that was dealing with the claim was 
no longer operating by that point, so there was only limited information available about the 
costs. So, I also dont think its clear what each of Rs costs specifically covered, including 
what were claim handling costs, which shouldnt be used to reduce the claim limit as these 
were for RSA to cover. In the circumstances, theres now no way to find this out.
As a result, I think the only fair way to resolve this complaint is for RSA to remove the cap 
imposed and to pay the full contents settlement amount of £63,063.50. RSA must also pay 
interest on the difference between the previously settled amount and the full settlement 
amount because Mr A lost the ability to make use of that money.
Ive also thought about compensation. Ive looked at how this claim was handled, including 
the issues with how R costed the claim and the shock Mr A said he experienced at being 
offered a higher amount and then being told this amount would be reduced because of Rs 
claim costs. As a result, RSA should pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A.
  
Putting things right
RSA must pay the full contents settlement amount of £63,063.50 and pay interest on the 
difference between the previously settled amount and the full settlement amount. RSA must 
also pay £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Remove the cap imposed and pay the full contents settlement of £63,063.50
Pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the previously settled figure and the 
full settlement amount.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Pay £250 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman