DRN-1991608
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined two claims for damage to a 
flat roof under a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had made two claims to esure and wasn't happy with the outcome of each. The first 
claim in 2018 related to damage caused by rainfall, and the other claim related to accidental 
damage in 2019 caused to a flat roof.
I issued a provisional decision explaining what I thought  was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I explained why I thought the 2018 claim submitted as storm damage wasn't 
one that esure had declined unfairly. While there had been rainfall amounting to 'storm' as 
defined in Mr B's policy, I wasn't persuaded that he'd demonstrated the existence of damage 
to a flat roof as a result of the rainfall. 
For the 2019 claim esure rejected it on the basis of a surveyor's report that concluded there 
was no damage other than wear and tear. But it was apparent that the surveyor had never 
physically inspected the roof and relied on photographs that showed no damage. But this 
was because Mr B had carried out a temporary repair and informed the surveyor of this. 
Having considered the report and what Mr B had said I wasn't satisfied it was fair for esure 
to reject the claim on the basis of an exclusion that it hadn't shown evidence of. 
There was also an issue about the validity of some photographs that Mr B had provided of 
the damaged flat roof before he'd carried out the temporary repair. While I was satisfied the 
photos were of Mr B's roof, it wasn't clear when the photos were taken and there were 
apparent anomalies in the appearance of the back of the house. I explained the importance 
of this because if the damage pre-existed the incident (clarified as 21 September 2019) then 
it was apparent that the photos may not have corroborated Mr B's claim for accidental 
damage. So I thought esure had reasonably questioned the photos.
In order to remedy the situation I was minded to require esure to send out another surveyor 
to physically inspect the damaged area and that they'd be entitled to ask Mr B for 
clarification of the work he'd carried out and when. I was of the view that the briefness of the 
surveyor's report had caused delay because it wasn't sufficient to show an exclusion applied, 
and I was mindful of esure's duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. I thought esure should 
pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience the delay had caused.
Finally, I was aware that esure had offered to settle the claim on the basis of 50% of the 
repair costs. Mr B had provided an estimate of £1,400, and so I said, in the  alternative, the 
parties may wish to agree a settlement on the basis of a £700 contribution (less the policy 
excess). But whatever resolution esure had to pay the £150 compensation.
Mr B has sent further photographs some of which pre-date the incident date at the heart of 
the 2019 claim. While I've considered these very carefully, I can't reach a conclusion from the photographs alone as to the date the photo of the claim damage was actually taken. 
Some of the trouble might be due to the format in which the photos have been sent and this 
is in no way down to Mr B. But could be down to software compatibility. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm still satisfied that the 2018 claim was fairly declined because of the absence of any 
damage caused to the flat roof as a consequence of rainfall. Mr B decided not to pursue the 
internal damage because of the cost of repair compared to the policy excess.
Regarding the 2019 claim, I'm not persuaded that the photos of the damaged flat roof as 
submitted by Mr B sufficiently support his claim given that I'm not able to reach a conclusion 
on the date the photos were taken. This can be overcome as Mr B will be able to show 
esure's surveyor the online photo album in which they are stored, and he says these photos 
are dated in that storage facility. 
Putting things right
I direct esure Insurance Limited to:
i. instruct another surveyor to do a more detailed inspection of the flat roof to include
physical inspection of the damaged area;
ii. After the report above, decide whether it will deal with the claim or not and inform 
Mr B of its decision. This will necessarily need to address the alleged cause of the 
damage (Mr B putting his foot through the roof) versus whether it's more likely than not 
simple wear and tear;
iii. In the alternative to points i and ii, the parties may wish to agree to settle based on
esures previous offer of 50% (less policy excess), in which case Mr B should let 
esure know;
iv. Pay £150 compensation (payable no matter which way the parties agree to 
proceed).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman