DRN-4064117
The complaint
Mr O says esure Insurance Limited provided poor service to him when he made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy and that it failed to offer him adequate compensation.
What happened
On 23 May 2022 Mr O was driving his vehicle when he hit a deer, causing damage to the 
vehicles front and side. He disagreed with esures engineer that it was driveable - and he 
didnt drive it again until after it was repaired.  On 1 June 2022 esure said its approved 
repairer couldnt do the repairs before 5 July 2022, but on 9 June it instructed a recovery firm 
to collect the vehicle. It wasnt taken to the repairer until 24 June 2022, after Mr O had 
chased esure about progress. And he didnt get a replacement car until 15 July 2022. 
 
Meanwhile Mr O had made a formal complaint to esure on 16 June 2022. In response it said 
the delay in collecting his car was due to the fact that it was driveable, as non-driveable 
vehicles take priority. But it said its advisor should have done more than just email the 
repairer when Mr O asked if his car could be taken there earlier than 15 July 2022. It said it 
had tried to get a replacement car for Mr O three days before one was provided to him  and 
that it had paid him £50 compensation at the time. Later on esure accepted that it hadnt 
handled the claim well, so it offered him a further £300 compensation. Mr O wasnt happy 
with that when he realised hed still have to pay the £350 excess on his policy.
Mr O told us he wanted a refund of the years premium (£687.94) as well as a refund of the 
policy excess. When one of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint, initially she said 
esure should pay him for the loss of use of his vehicle for 41 days at £10 per day, plus £200 
for distress and inconvenience. As esure had already paid Mr O £350, she said it should pay 
him a further £260. But after she clarified the dispute about the cars driveability with esure, 
the investigator issued a second view. She concluded that a loss of use payment wasnt 
appropriate, as Mr O couldnt show the vehicle was undriveable. She thought the £350 it had 
paid him was enough to compensate him for his distress and inconvenience.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I dont think Mr O has shown that his vehicle wasnt driveable. The damage assessor who 
inspected it said the damage was light and the vehicle was mobile. Mr O says that in a call 
with an engineer he was told the vehicle wasnt driveable. He cant identify the engineer and 
he isnt sure about the date , but he says it was on or before 1 June 2022  when he spoke 
to one of esures advisors. Ive listened to that call recording. Mr O asked if the repairs could 
be done as soon as possible, as he wouldnt be happy driving the vehicle. He said hed 
spoken to an engineer, but he didnt say the engineer had said it shouldnt be driven.
I think it was reasonable for esure and the approved repairer to have a policy of prioritising 
work on cars that were definitely not driveable. As Mr Os car wasnt included in that 
category, I think he could have used it as normal until it was collected by the recovery firm. 
Mr O chose not to do that, so I dont think esure can be required to compensate him for the 
vehicles loss of use during that period. 
esure accepts that due to an error on its part, the recovery firm didnt deliver the car to the 
repairer for two weeks, causing an avoidable delay. It looks as though that error was only 
noted when Mr O made a formal complaint to esure. And it was then several more weeks 
until a replacement car was provided, so Mr O was without transport for around five weeks. 
esure says it tried to hire a car for Mr O on 12 July 2022  three days before he finally got a 
replacement vehicle. It hasnt explained why it didnt try to do so much earlier.
 
esure offered Mr O £50 for poor service initially and then £300 more later on, but it seems 
Me O was without a vehicle from 9 June 2022 to 15 July 2022. I think esure should have 
ensured he had a replacement car during that time  or should at least have tried its best to 
do so, as Mr O was significantly inconvenienced by being without transport. So I think esure 
should pay him for the loss of use of his vehicle ay £10 per day, for 32 days (until 12 July 
2022, when it attempted to hire a replacement). 
Mr O thinks it would be reasonable for esure to refund his premium for the year, but in my 
opinion, that wouldnt be appropriate. Mr O got the benefit of the cover hed bought when 
esure paid for the repairs (the cost of which far exceeded the cost of the premium). And the 
policy also provided cover for the vehicle before and after the accident. I dont think its fair to 
expect the policy excess to be waived either. One of the policys terms is that Mr O is 
required to pay £350 on any claim. Paying a policy excess is standard industry practice, and 
Mr O agreed to it when buying the policy. 
esure has accepted that as it didnt manage the claim well, Mr O had to chase it from the 
start to try to get the claim moving. He also had to chase the repairer repeatedly for updates, 
wasting his time and money, even after hed complained and esure had assured him it would 
instruct the repairer to update him. The repairers error in ordering the wrong parts caused 
further delay. And esure accepts there was another avoidable delay when Mr O called to 
speak to a manager and was told in error to wait for a written response.
I think compensation for the significant inconvenience Mr O faced due to the poor contact 
from esure and its repairer, together with the avoidable delays in the process, merits £200 
compensation, on top of the payment for loss of use. So Im minded to require esure to pay 
Mr O £520 in total. As it has already paid him £350, it should pay Mr O a further £170.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt respond and Mr O 
said he had nothing to add.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties made any comment about my provisional  findings, theres no 
reason to depart from them. So, for the reasons stated above, Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
O £200 for distress and inconvenience and £320 for the loss of use of his car (£520 in total) -  
less the £350 it has already paid him, so £170 more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman