DRN-1295546
The complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank Plc has wrongly declined his Section 75 claim.
What happened
On 26 November 2018, Mr B purchased a software package from Company S for £777.40 
using his Lloyds Bank credit card. He says he didnt fully attempt to use it until January
2019, and then found out that a key feature of the software is not compatible for the UK
market.
He explained he purchased the software to find products he can sell on a well-known online 
marketplace. The brand search feature he was looking for would enable him to narrow down 
by brand good selling products on this market place. He would then be able to purchase 
them and sell them himself. But he realised the software only works for the inline 
marketplace in the US and doesnt work for the UK market. Mr B says if hed been advised 
of this, he wouldnt have purchased it.
Mr B complained to Company S and asked for a refund. Company S said its marketing 
was very clear and at no point had it misrepresented the product, it didnt agree to refund Mr 
B the purchase cost.
Mr B then approached Lloyds and made a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act (CCA).
In its final response dated 15 April 2019, Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Bs claim. It said it had 
reviewed the claim twice and hadnt found any evidence of misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the merchant. It went on to say the merchant had provided evidence that the 
product had been used by Mr B since purchase for around 3 months. It also provided 
evidence of the marketing material for the product which stated this was for use in the US 
marketplace.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. She looked at the evidence from both parties and 
concluded that there was no evidence or either misrepresentation or breach of contract. She 
felt the marketing was very clear this was for use in the US market. She also noted the 
website made it clear that if a consumer was unsure if the software was suitable a monthly 
plan should be taken out. This it said was because refunds were not available for annual 
subscriptions. She said Mr B had a responsibility to ensure he was buying suitable software 
and could have taken a monthly option to try it out. She thought Lloyds had acted fairly and 
reasonably and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He says the terms the investigator referred to and the website itself had 
been altered after he made his purchase. He says the website refund policy and website 
description was changed after his purchase. He believes this action was taken after he filed 
a claim with Lloyds as the merchant may have realised this could expose him to further 
claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so Ive 
reached the same view as our investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr B, Ill explain why.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what a fair way is to resolve Mr Bs complaint, I must 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, 
Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr B pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. This is because, our service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates 
under different rules from a court.
Section 75 says in certain circumstances, if Mr B paid using his credit card, then the credit 
card provider is as responsible as the supplier if he didnt get what he was promised and if 
what he was promised made him go ahead with the contract.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there must be a: 
 Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and 
 A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain. It is not 
disputed there is an unbroken debtor, credit supplier link and so the issue I have to consider 
is whether there was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Ive looked carefully at the website information for Company S. Whilst I understand Mr B 
says the software he purchased was not fit for purpose in the UK, it doesnt say on the 
website for the product that it is available for use in the UK. It says that the Wholesale 
Brand Search within the software gives access to contact information from nearly 15,000 
currently available brands from US marketplaces.
Im persuaded that suggests the product is for use in the US marketplace. I appreciate the 
online marketplace Mr B wanted to operate within is the UK part of a global marketplace, but 
the merchant isnt obliged to detail where it isnt compatible. So, I cant fairly say the 
merchant misrepresented the product. 
In terms of any breach of contract, the merchant supplied the product and Mr B was able to 
use it for around 3 months. At the point he realised the software wasnt going to do what he 
wanted it to. But that doesnt mean the merchant was in breach of contract. Im afraid I have 
to agree, it was Mr Bs responsibility to check the software would do what he wanted it to 
before purchase.
Im further persuaded that the disclaimer on the website suggesting a consumer pay only a 
monthly fee if there is any uncertainty about whether the product will do what the consumer 
wants was an option open to Mr B and he chose to pay the annual fee rather than take a 
months trial. 
I appreciate Mr B says the website terms have been altered since his purchase but Ive not 
seen any evidence of that so I can only consider the available information with regard to the 
website.Whilst I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr B, from what Ive seen Lloyds have acted fairly 
and reasonably and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman