DRN-3333282
Complaint
Miss W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying 
charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss Ws overdraft had become unsustainable for her by July 2016 and so it shouldnt 
have added the charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC didnt accept our adjudicators 
view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss Ws overdraft from July 2016. By 
this point, it was evident that Miss Ws overdraft had become unsustainable for her and that 
continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
Miss Ws statements leading up to this period shows that she hadnt seen a credit balance 
for an extended period of time. Miss W was also struggling to manage and regularly 
exceeding her limit. In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what HSBC has said 
about there being more than a year between when Miss W says she was in difficulty and 
when she next successfully applied for a limit increase. But this was after HSBC ought to 
have realised that Miss W was already struggling. Equally, I also think that there was 
information on Miss Ws account statements which called into question the accuracy of the 
information HSBC relied upon when deciding Miss Ws overdraft was affordable for her.
So overall by July 2016, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Miss W was struggling 
and unlikely to be able to sustainably repay her overdraft. In these circumstances, HSBC 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms. It should have instead 
treated Miss W with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to the 
facility. All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Miss W wasnt using her 
overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become 
unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react 
to Miss Ws overdraft and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably. 
Miss W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time 
when she was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Miss W lost out because of what 
HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from July 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss W to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Ws credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded if it had started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft 
in July 2016. HSBC can also reduce Miss Ws overdraft limit by the amount of 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ws credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Miss Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman