DRN-2499339
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to 
lend to her.
What happened
Miss H took out a £300 loan with Lending Stream on 26 May 2014. It was due to be repaid 
with six instalments, finishing on 1 December 2014.
Miss H says Lending Stream did not adequately check her financial history before it lent to 
her. She says she had several other short-term loans at the time as well as credit cards, an 
overdraft and a loan, all due to her gambling addiction. Miss H says that Lending Stream did 
not freeze interest and charges on the loan when she told it she was in financial difficulties 
and has yet to respond to her complaint. She adds that she ended up in a debt management 
plan and the situation had a severe effect on her mental health.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss H about her income and expenditure and checked her 
credit file. It says the checks showed she had an acceptable credit rating and that the 
repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Miss H was struggling to manage her money.
Mrs H, Miss Hs mother, responded on Miss Hs behalf, to say that Miss H already had loans 
totalling over £11,000 with five other short-term loan companies at the time, plus further debt 
of £18,599 with her bank. She says Lending Stream cannot have carried out an adequate 
check of her credit file and the loan was unaffordable, and Lending Stream was 
irresponsible, based on guidance provided by a debt management charity. Mrs H adds that 
clearly her daughter was vulnerable given her gambling addiction and should never have 
been approved for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
When Miss H applied for the loan with Lending Stream, Ive seen evidence to show that it 
asked her about her income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. Miss H said her 
monthly income was £1,384, with expenditure of £340. The results of Lending Streams 
credit check showed Miss H had a credit score of 790, with no defaults or delinquent 
accounts. Im satisfied, in the circumstances of the lending, that these checks were 
proportionate. I say that because:
This was Miss Hs first loan with Lending Stream;
The highest monthly repayment due was less than 12% of Miss Hs declared income;
Her declared disposable income, at over £1,000, indicated the repayments were 
affordable;
There was nothing in the credit file that suggested Miss H was struggling financially, 
or that Lending Stream needed to carry out further checks.
At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Miss H as there was nothing to indicate her financial circumstances were 
significantly different. I acknowledge Mrs H says her daughter had multiple short-term loans 
at the time, which made the loan unaffordable, but I dont find it would have been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out the level of financial review that would have 
been required to show this additional borrowing.
Finally, I accept Miss Hs gambling addiction meant she was in a vulnerable position when it 
came to borrowing money and, as such, Lending Stream had a duty to take these 
circumstances into account. However, Ive seen no evidence that Lending Stream was made aware of Miss Hs addiction before it made its lending decision, so I cant conclude it should 
have done anything differently. However, Ive seen evidence to show Lending Stream did 
freeze interest and charges when Miss H told it she was in financial difficulties and in a debt 
management plan. I consider it acted fairly and reasonably in that regard.
In summary, although I accept what Mrs H says about her daughters circumstances at the 
time of the loan, and the devastating effect this had on her mental health, I find that Lending 
Streams checks were proportionate and that there was nothing in the available information 
to indicate that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by approving it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman