DRN-1653890
 
The complaint
Mr C says Provident Personal Credit limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him 
and provided him with a loan without sufficient affordability checks to assess whether he 
could reasonably afford the loan. Mr C fell into arrears and eventually defaulted on the loan 
but says he never received any communications from Satsuma about this.
What happened
Mr C took a £1,000 instalment loan with Satsuma on 12 September 2018. The instalments of 
£166 were payable over 12 months. Mr C made the first two repayments late and feel into 
arrears. He discussed setting up a repayment plan and made a further partial payment in 
April 2019. The loan defaulted in June 2019 and was passed to a third party.
Our adjudicator did not recommend Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C did not agree. As Mr 
C didnt agree, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Firstly, I would like to offer my sympathies for what Mr C has been through and the issues he 
still faces with regards to his health and finances. However, although I empathise with the 
position in which Mr C is in, I must also remain impartial when considering his complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
I will only be addressing those issues I consider to be materially relevant to the outcome of 
the complaint. And although I may not address each individual point Mr C has raised, Ive 
given careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether 
Mr C could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
So I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with circumstance. In general, 
Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer 
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But I might think a lender might need to do more if, for example, the consumers income was 
low or the amount lent or monthly repayment was high. And the longer the lending 
relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So Id expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt 
continued to provide loans to a customer irresponsibly.
Satsuma says it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and affordability checks before 
making a decision as to whether to provide a loan. This information didnt suggest that Mr C 
wouldnt be able to make the repayments he was committing to. And in these circumstances, 
Satsuma felt it wasnt irresponsible to lend.
The information provided by Satsuma does suggest that Mr C was asked to declare details 
of his monthly income, along with his monthly expenses. Mr C declared an income of £1,200 
and expenses of £310. Satsuma added their own internal safe guards and buffers to the 
information Mr C declared, but even then, the maximum monthly repayment of £166, still 
appeared affordable to Satsuma.
There was no requirement for Satsuma to do a credit search, but the type of searches it did 
do did not show the level of detail that Mr Cs own credit report would show. Satsumas 
searches covered things like insolvency, debt management plans and country court 
judgments as well as other recent payday loans. But the searches did not capture the full 
details of Mr Cs actual financial situation.
I accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances werent reflected in the information he provided (or 
obtained through Satsumas own searches). But this was Mr Cs first loan with Satsuma and, 
at this stage in the lending relationship, Satsuma was entitled to rely on the information Mr C 
provided. I dont think there was any reason for Satsuma to doubt the information Mr C gave 
it. The repayments that Mr C agreed to make on his loan were relatively modest compared 
to the monthly income that he declared to Satsuma. And, even after allowing for his regular 
monthly expenditure, Im satisfied that the repayments would have appeared to be affordable 
for Mr C.
So given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, and his lack of borrowing history with Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. That is to say; I dont think Satsuma needed to ask for 
Mr Cs banks statements or for the level of detail that they would have shown Satsuma about 
Mr Cs actual financial circumstances. So, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to give this loan 
to Mr C and Im not upholding this part of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C says he never received the default notice or any communications to explain that the 
debt was being passed on to a third party. Satsuma says it did send a default notice. Where 
there is a dispute about what happened, I make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities; that it is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Although Satsuma hasnt retained a copy of Mr Cs default notice, it has provided a sample 
letter that it says would have been issued. I can also see from a screen shot of its systems 
notes that a default notice was recorded as being sent on 23 May 2019. Satsuma also had 
the correct address for Mr C. So I think its more likely than not it was issued.
Im also mindful that Mr C had been struggling to repay the loan for quite some time prior to 
the default. The first two repayments were made late in November and December 2018. This 
was followed by four missed payments, before a partial payment was made in April 2019. 
Several attempts to set up a repayment plan had been made and payment dates pushed 
back on several occasions. Mr C told us that he called on 25 June 2019 to set up another 
arrangement. So, it seems he still wasnt able to make a payment towards the loan at this 
time. Indeed, Mr C did not make a payment to the third party until 24 August 2019. The credit file has to accurately reflect the conduct of the account and I dont think a default is an 
unfair reflection of what happened given the number of missed and late payments.
I appreciate Mr C has provided letters addressed to Satsuma on 12 April 2019 and 15 May 
2019 in which he requested payment plans and sent details of his medical records. 
However, the text communications on the 13 April 2019 and 16 May 2019, show that 
payment plans were agreed and put in place and appear to supersede Mr Cs letters.
I know Mr C feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. He has put time 
and effort into the complaint. Ive thought carefully about all that he has said. But based 
on everything Ive read and been told, on balance, I dont think itd be fair and reasonable 
to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr C's complaint and therefore I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman