DRN-2174373
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy for flood damage to his car.
What happened
Mr P said his car was damaged in floods and he made a claim on his policy. Admiral had an 
independent assessor examine Mr Ps car. He said the damage was due to wear and tear. 
Mr P submitted further evidence which Admiral asked the independent assessor to consider. 
He still thought the damage had been caused over time due to advanced corrosion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably considered all the evidence available and relied on the expert opinion of the 
independent assessor. 
Mr P replied that the assessor hadnt considered photographs hed provided or the 
comments of the dealers garage. He said hed provided evidence of flooding which hadnt 
been considered. Mr P asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that Admiral has declined his claim. I can see that hes 
now been left to pay for the repairs himself. I can also see that hes adamant that the 
claimed for damage was caused by flooding. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
Mr P said his car was caught in a flood, water got into the footwell and damaged the cars 
electrics under the cars seats. Admiral considered this and thought the damage could have 
been caused by flooding, but it needed to rule out wear and tear and falling water as a 
cause. So it appointed an independent assessor. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to determine the cause of the damage. 
The independent assessor looked at Mr Ps car two weeks after the claim in a dealers 
garage. His report said there was no evidence of rising water in the car. He suggested that 
Mr P should provide images of the flood. He said Mr Ps repairer stated that the carpets and 
under-felt were wet when the car arrived. But there were no images to support this. The 
assessor provided photographs of circuit boards from the car. He said they showed signs of 
advanced corrosion, showing that this was an ongoing historic problem. 
Mr P provided video footage and photographs of the flood. Admiral sent these to the 
independent assessor to review. But these didnt change his original opinion. He said that 
the amount of damage to the circuit boards couldnt have happened in the time between the 
flood and the inspection. 
The repairer provided a statement that there was water in the cars footwell and damage to 
the electrics consistent with the initial report of flood damage. But he didnt comment on the 
damage to the circuit boards. So, although I think Mr P has provided evidence that his car 
may have been flooded, he hasnt shown that this caused the claimed for damage. 
So I think Admiral reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available. I 
think it reasonably relied on the expert evidence provided by the independent assessor. It 
concluded that as the damage was historic, it was caused due to wear and tear. I can see 
that wear and tear is excluded from cover under the policys terms and conditions. So I think 
Admiral has justified its decision to decline the claim and not cover the cost of the repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman