DRN-3552508
The complaint
Mr G complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) avoided his motor insurance 
and declined to pay his claim when his car was involved in an accident. Avoiding or 
voiding a policy means it is cancelled from the start as if it never existed.
What happened
Mr G had motor insurance underwritten by Calpe, taken out online. His car was involved in 
an accident and he made a claim on his policy. Calpe declined the claim as Mr Gs date of 
birth given when he took out the policy was incorrect. Mr G says that a member of his family 
helped him take out the policy and had put in the wrong date of birth. Mr G says that when 
he realised this mistake he had emailed asking for it to be corrected. This email was 
apparently sent to the insurance broker not to Calpe.
Mr G wasnt happy with the decision to decline his claim and complained to Calpe. Calpe 
said Mr G had failed to give his correct date of birth at the start of the policy and his 
premiums were lower as a result. Calpe said it believed Mr Gs failure to provide the correct 
information was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So it had voided his policy and 
retained the premiums and Mr G was therefore liable for all costs. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. The investigator said the wrong date of birth had been given when the 
policy was taken out, and also in a later phone call between Mr G and the broker, so he was 
persuaded that Calpe had acted reasonably in saying this was a reckless misrepresentation.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr G wants 
Calpe to reconsider the outcome of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
When a consumer buys a motor insurance policy, theyll be asked various questions about 
themselves and the vehicle they want to insure. The insurer uses the answers to these 
questions to weigh up the risk of insuring that consumers vehicle. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, 
provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Calpe thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the insurance policy using an incorrect date of birth. Its for the insurer to prove that 
the information was incorrect or incomplete, however Mr G and Calpe both agree that the 
incorrect date of birth was given when the policy was taken out. It was Mr Gs responsibility 
to make sure the information provided was correct. So I dont think Mr G took reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Calpe have provided evidence from its underwriting staff that if Mr G had given his correct 
date of birth it would have offered the insurance on different terms, and would have at least 
charged him a higher premium. So Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was: 
 deliberate or reckless, or
 careless.
A qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if the consumer:
  knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it 
was untrue or misleading; and
 knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Calpe says that Mr Gs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because not only was 
an incorrect date of birth entered when the policy was taken out, Mr G also gave the same 
incorrect date of birth in a phone call. Mr G says he did realise the date of birth was incorrect 
once he received his policy documents, and he tried to correct it by emailing the broker. 
However he confirmed the wrong date of birth in a later call with broker, and he didnt 
mention it was wrong or that hed sent the email. Mr G says he had to give the incorrect date 
of birth in the phone call to pass the security questions and he had very limited time to make 
phone calls in his breaks at work. However I think Mr G could at least have mentioned the 
date of birth issue or his email in the phone call. 
Mr G says he asked Calpe to update his date of birth in a phone call, but this was after he 
had made the claim. Mr G has also provided an email from Calpe about settling the finance 
on the car, but this was sent before Calpe decided to void the policy, so I dont think this was 
an unreasonable question for Calpe to ask at this stage. It doesnt mean Calpe had definitely 
agreed to settle the claim.
Mr G knew the information provided was incorrect, and Im satisfied most people would be 
aware that a consumers age would be relevant to the insurer. So Im satisfied that it was fair 
and reasonable for Calpe to class the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.
As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Calpe could take.
In accordance with CIDRA Calpe was entitled to avoid the policy and refuse all claims and it 
didnt need to return the premiums, unless it would have been unfair to retain them. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that it would have been unfair for Calpe to retain Mr Gs premiums.
Therefore, Im satisfied Calpe was entitled to avoid Mr Gs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Calpe doesnt have to deal with his claim following the accident. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Calpe to rely on it to avoid Mr Gs policy is the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Ive seen the email which Mr G apparently sent to the insurance broker, shortly after he took 
out the policy and before he made the claim, asking for his date of birth to be corrected. I 
asked our investigator to check what happened. The broker said it hadnt received the email, 
and pointed out that Mr G gave the incorrect date of birth in the phone call after he says he 
sent it. The broker also said due to the volume of emails they are deleted from the server 
after 14 days, but it was confident the details would have been updated if the email had been 
received. If Mr G is unhappy with this response, it is open to him to complain to the broker.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. So I wont be asking Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman