DRN-2882415
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his let property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. He made a claim 
to it following a water leak; he reports the service has been poor and feels that the 
settlement offered to him for repairs doesnt take into account that the cob wall has likely lost 
its structural integrity.
What happened
Mr B lets a listed property. The property has a combi boiler. In March 2020 there was a 
water leak from a hot water pipe in the kitchen. When the water was found it was three 
inches deep. The tenants cleaned up the water straight away and a claim was made to AXA. 
By May 2020, and into August 2020, Mr B was not happy with how the claim was 
progressing. He told AXA so and it issued three final responses dealing with his concerns 
about its service. The last one was dated 28 August 2020. In short AXA accepted there had 
been various failings and offered a total of £575 compensation. Also in those letters AXA 
accepted that the claim required specialist consideration on account of the property being 
listed. In that respect it appointed a new loss adjuster and a surveyor.
Mr B first complained to this service in July 2020. By the time our investigator considered his 
complaint AXA had issued its August response and she took into account all of Mr Bs 
concerns about the claim activity which had occurred to that point. She felt the compensation 
was fair and reasonable, as was AXAs decision to appoint specialists to better deal with the 
claim moving forward. That complaint was then closed.
By this point though Mr Bs concerns about AXAs plans to settle the claim had re-focussed 
on the specialists it had appointed. Mr B felt they had no or little expertise in respect of listed 
properties and felt the scope of works they had produced wasdeficient. He especially felt 
they had failed to establish that the integrity of the cob wall had not been compromised by 
the leak. AXAs surveyor said they hadnt noticed any signs such as bulging that might 
suggest the structure was affected, and felt that was unlikely given the water had been 
cleared away as soon as it was found. 
In a further final response dated 2 October 2020 AXA acknowledged that it had asked Mr B 
to provide his own evidence for it to consider. It accepted there had been further delays and 
said it was paying Mr B £100 compensation. 
Mr B obtained evidence regarding necessary repairs from his architect who produced a 
report and a quote for repair. This was sent to AXA and it asked its loss adjuster for 
comment. The loss adjuster referred back to the comments from the surveyor (which 
pre-dated Mr Bs report). 
In a final response dated 23 December 2020 AXA accepted there had been further delays 
and said it was paying Mr B a further £200 compensation. Regarding resolving the issue 
about what repairs were needed, it said it would appoint further specialists. It said it would 
like to meet at Mr Bs property so that all the relevant experts involved could discuss matters. 
It said if, following this meeting, it decided to increase its scope of repairs, it would reimburse 
Mr Bs costs for obtaining the report and consider paying him further compensation. 
Mr B had concerns about the meeting. Not least hed felt AXA had, by this point, had more 
than enough time to consider his loss and it hadnt produced anything substantive to refute 
his experts findings. He felt AXA should just settle the claim in line with the costs his expert 
recommended. But he did agree to the meeting  although further issues then arose due to 
the pandemic. In January 2021 AXAs experts then completed some further assessments 
and made further comments without the meeting taking place.
Our investigator considered everything that had happened since shed issued her view on 
Mr Bs previous complaint. She felt AXA had responded reasonably, including in respect of 
the compensation it had offered.
Mr B said he disagreed with our findings. His complaint was passed to me to consider. 
I felt there were some issues I couldnt consider here and that AXAs plan to re-consider the 
claim, as well as its offer of compensation were fair. But I also felt that AXA should be 
reimbursing the cost of Mr Bs report. I issued a provisional decision to explain all my views 
to both parties.
AXA said it accepted my findings. Mr B said my decision did not reflect the unreasonable 
time and manner in which AXA had taken to settle the claim. He said it had fraudulently 
provided its insurance policy as it clearly was not able to deal with claims for listed properties 
and he felt AXA had manipulated the complaint process for its own gain. And he said his 
report has since been accepted so he should get more compensation from AXA for the way 
in which its kept messing him about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr D thinks that the poor service he has received evidences that he was mis-sold 
this policy; that AXAs provision of the policy equates to fraud. Thats because he felt he was 
getting specialist cover which AXA, in his view, simply hasnt provided. Unfortunately, and 
whilst it isnt clear to me if AXA was responsible for selling the policy, it isnt unusual for me 
to see complaints about poor service, usually in respect of poor, inadequate and possibly 
unsuitable repairs being suggested or completed. But that doesnt mean the insurer was 
wrong to sell or offer the policy. Rather the poor service becomes the subject of a complaint 
or complaints which may, as Mr Bs concerns have, fall for consideration by this service. 
In my provisional decision I said:
what I can consider
I appreciate it is frustrating for Mr B to hear that we cant look at everything that has 
happened as a whole. But the complaint procedure only allows us to consider complaints up 
to the point of final responses issued by the insurer. Sometimes an insurer might agree to let 
us go beyond that period  but that isnt always the case. And where an insurer wont allow 
that, we have no power to ignore the normal parameters set out for us. Our investigator previously considered the service AXA had provided until 28 August 2020. 
So my review starts from there. AXA then set out two final responses  the second and last 
dated 23 December 2020. So Ill consider what has happened between 28 August and 
23 December, and whether AXAs response on the claim, as reflected in its December letter, 
based on what it knew at that time, was fair and reasonable.  
I appreciate that Mr Bs claim is wider, and the issues of concern for him are more involved, 
than Im able to look at or deal with as part of this complaint. I understand that Mr B thinks 
AXA has then manipulated that situation for its own gain and that the system should be 
reformed  but that doesnt change what I can and cant consider. This service does, on 
occasion, make referrals to the regulator. But that is usually where we see a pattern of 
behaviours from an insurer  if Mr B feels AXA is in breach of regulations then he is free to 
draw that to the regulators attention.
My provisional findings continued:
AXAs response on the claim
AXAs December 2020 final response promises to appoint further specialists to re-assess 
the damage at the property and what repairs are necessary to restore it. I can understand 
why Mr B is frustrated  this will be the third set of contractors AXA has appointed in pursuit 
of settling the claim. However, from what I have seen I think further assessment is 
reasonably required. 
Between August and December 2020 Mr B told AXA he was unhappy with the proposals of 
its experts in place at that time. But AXA wasnt persuaded its experts conclusions on the 
claim were wrong and invited Mr B to present evidence to challenge their findings. I think 
Mr B was right to have some concerns  but I think AXAs request for him to supply expert 
evidence was reasonable.
When Mr B provided this AXAs experts then didnt deal with that evidence very well. This 
left AXA in a difficult position of having expert evidence from Mr B which sought to challenge 
its experts findings  but with no real comment from its own experts in response. Mr Bs 
expert makes some interesting comments  but doesnt seem to have actually tested the 
wall himself. And whilst Mr B says he is appropriately experienced, I note he is an architect 
rather than a surveyor  he gives no details about his own expertise or history of working 
with listed properties. So I can understand why AXA wasnt fully persuaded by the report. In 
the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for it to want to review the damage again.
Until that review takes place and AXA decides what its final position is on what repairs are 
needed, it would be remiss of me to comment further on the evidence Mr B has provided. 
Nor would it be appropriate for me to say anything further about the settlement previously 
offered by AXA  as the situation has moved on with AXA agreeing to undertake a review. 
Once AXA reaches a final position on the claim and tells Mr B how it intends to settle that, if 
he remains unhappy, he can make a further complaint. 
Mr B clarified that there had been 6 contractors and his expert, who is very respected for his 
work with listed properties, hadnt been able to fully assess the wall as AXA wouldnt agree 
to covering the cost of investigatory works. He further pointed out that this expert had 
restored the wall previously and that details of his expertise are available on-line if Id cared 
to look. Mr B explained that his report has since been accepted. So he thinks AXA could 
have done this before. Rather than just saying it would re-consider the matter.I think AXA could have handled things better  but Mr B does have a role to play in proving 
his loss. I understand that Mr B feels his expert is highly regarded and that there may well be 
evidence of this if one searches for it. But I didnt need to do that  what I was doing was 
considering whether AXA, given the detail it had been provided, had acted reasonably. 
I stand by my provisional comments in this respect. 
Ive not seen why AXA has recently accepted the report. But my focus is on what AXA knew 
and did at the time it offered to re-consider the claim. For the reasons set out provisionally, 
I think that action and offer was fair and reasonable. 
My provisional findings continued:
Mr Bs report costs
I think AXA was wrong to say it would only consider reimbursing Mr Bs outlay if it ultimately 
revised its view on what repairs were necessary. Mr Bs report, although not entirely 
persuasive, was persuasive enough to make AXA agree to review the damage and what it 
had intended for repair. So that report has influenced the outcome of his complaint that 
AXAs proposals for repair were insufficient. I intend to make AXA reimburse Mr Bs outlay 
(£405, no VAT specified), plus interest* from the date he paid for the report until settlement 
is made.
compensation
I think that between August and December 2020 AXA did cause delays to Mr Bs claim. Not 
least when its experts refused to consider in any meaningful way the evidence Mr B had 
presented. But for that period AXA has paid a total of £350 compensation. Having 
considered everything, I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr B feels AXA is in breach of the Consumer Rights Act because it hasnt dealt with his 
claim in a reasonable time. And hed like compensation for having been messed around, 
particularly because his report has now been accepted by AXA.
As explained, I can only consider what AXA did between August and December 2020. Im 
not looking at AXAs claim handling as a whole. But I did consider whether, during August 
and December 2020, AXA handled things in a reasonable way, including what it did and the 
time taken. As I said, in my view, it caused delays. These delays caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience and I can award compensation to make up for that. But any award I make has 
to be fair and reasonable and in line with other awards made by this service in similar 
situations. And I have to take into account the compensation the insurer has already paid. If 
AXA had paid nothing for the upset it had caused during this period, I wouldnt have been 
minded to award more than £350. As AXA has paid that I cant fairly and reasonably award 
anything more
Putting things right
Im minded to make AXA pay Mr B £405 as reimbursement of the cost he incurred in 
providing an expert report and scope of work, plus interest* from the date Mr B paid this sum 
until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
tax from any interest due to Mr B, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold this compalint in part.  I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman