DRN-2750670
The complaint
Miss G complains that an educational programme and associated loan with Honeycomb 
Finance Limited, were mis-sold by the programme supplier, who also acted as the credit 
broker (X). Miss G also complains about the quality of the programme and associated 
services provided by the supplier.
Background
Miss G signed up for an education programme to benefit her son in May 2018. The 
programme was financed by a fixed sum loan with Honeycomb which was brokered by X. 
She tried to cancel the programme in September 2019 and subsequently complained the 
programme and loan had been mis-sold. My provisional findings on the complaint can be 
found in the quoted text of my provisional decision below, which was sent to both parties to 
the complaint on 12 March 2021:
Having reviewed Miss Gs case, I think I could summarise her complaint points as follows:
She wasnt told she was signing up for a loan.
She was incorrectly told she could cancel at any time
She (and her son) didnt receive the academic support they had expected from X
There were technical issues with the course and the free laptop
There are broader circumstances surrounding the sale of the loan which are relevant, and
which I will come on to later in this decision. To begin with though, I will outline how it is that
Honeycomb can be found responsible for the way the loan and course were sold when it
was not itself the seller.
Miss Gs loan with Honeycomb is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This act
contains provisions which give a degree of protection to consumers where they have
purchased goods or services with certain types of credit. Miss Gs loan is of a type which
qualifies for the protection offered by two relevant sections of the act: section 56 and
section 75.
Without going into great detail, section 56 has the effect of making X the agent of
Honeycomb during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Miss G entering into the loan
agreement, beginning with the moment she was first approached by X. Very broadly
speaking, this means Honeycomb is responsible for the acts or omissions of X in relation to
the sale of the loan to Miss G. In other words, Honeycomb has to stand behind the things X
said or did during the sales process.
Section 75 allows Miss G to make a like claim against Honeycomb in respect of any breach
of contract by X, or misrepresentation by X in relation to the purchase of the learning
programme. A breach of contract could be a breach of an explicit contractual term or one
which is treated as being included in the contract due to  for example  the effect of certain
legislation.
A key piece of such legislation in Miss Gs case is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Based on my analysis of CRA and the facts of Miss Gs case, I think Miss Gs contract with X
was likely to have been a mixed contract for digital content and services. The effect of the
CRA is that the following relevant terms are treated as being included in Xs contract with
Miss G:
That any services will be supplied with reasonable care and skill.
That any digital content will be of satisfactory quality.
Xs responsibilities to Miss G
In arranging the loan between Miss G and Honeycomb, X was acting as a credit broker.
Credit broking is a regulated activity and the relevant regulations and guidance X was
expected to follow can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC). While these regulations and guidance do not apply to Honeycomb
directly, I think the adherence (or non-adherence) to these provisions by brokers acting on
its behalf is something which is important for it to consider as a lender.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations,
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to foresee;
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable and
depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions),
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customers home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and when
this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the precontract 
information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must:

(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a
customer is not unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering into
it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including X
and Honeycomb) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:6 Customers interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
With the relevant regulatory background thus set out, I think its important to move on to a
discussion of the product Miss G purchased, and her circumstances at the time of sale. Its
my view that the nature of this product and the way it was sold is likely to have influenced
Miss Gs assumptions about how she was going to be paying for it and on what terms.
The product and its sales channel
Xs programme was positioned as an affordable, online alternative to private English and
Maths tuition for a child. Typically, private tuition is paid for by the hour, although discounts
may be offered for bulk-bookings. Online-based services in general, beyond tuition, are in
my experience and based on my further research, often offered on a subscription basis
ranging from one month up to a year. X itself appeared, based on statements on its website
and on other documents I have seen from the company, to have offered a monthly
subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence model it
sold to Miss G.
Indeed, when providing more detail about why she thought the agreement was affordable for
Miss G, Xs representative noted on one of the sales documents that Miss G had previously
been using a different popular tutoring service I will call E, and been paying £109 per
month for this. Miss G has confirmed this was the case (although she says the
representative overstated the length of time shed been signed up with E and the price) and
says that she had cancelled her service with E at a months notice, and had thought the
arrangement would be the same with X. Ive checked Es website and this confirms it runs a
rolling monthly subscription model, cancellable with a months notice.
The Lifetime Licence model appears to be different in that a single large payment is used
to allow access to Xs programme for the duration of a childs schooling up to GCSE. Due to
the substantial size of payment required, a loan is often needed to cover it, and these loans
are not cancellable. The overall effect is that once a person has signed up for the
programme and the loan, they cannot cancel and are committed to repaying the loan in full
after 14 days have passed. This strikes me as an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition
due to its inherent lack of flexibility. Its not uncommon for children to change tutors for a
variety of reasons, and I think flexibility is therefore something most parents would value
when considering either face to face or online tuition. The fact Miss G cancelled a rolling
monthly subscription with a rival tuition service suggests to me that flexibility was important
to her.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, a parent arranging an appointment to
learn more about Xs programme would assume that it was being offered on a subscription
basis. I think its unlikely they would think that they were going to be signing up for a long-term 
commitment paid for, up front, by a loan. Miss G was a long-time user of tuition paid by
monthly subscription, so I think she is more likely than most to have gone into a meeting with
X expecting the product to be offered on a monthly subscription basis. Because X was
offering a significantly different proposition with long-term financial implications, I think it
needed to make this very clear.
Its also worth mentioning that the FCA wrote last year to credit brokers outlining some key
risks it believed they should consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms
brokering credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff,
leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or
other poor consumer outcomes. It singled out brokers which sell products in the home as
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales took place withoutappropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. While no specific firms were mentioned in
the FCAs letter, Im mindful of the fact that in Miss Gs case a representative of X was
brokering a credit agreement with a third party finance provider in order to sell her a product,
in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially presenting a higher risk
of consumer harm including mis-selling. Although I cannot be certain, on the balance of
probabilities and based on historic job adverts for the role, I also think the remuneration of
Xs representatives was linked to their success in signing up customers. So I think the sale
to Miss G contained all of the features which the FCA identified as carrying a higher risk of
poor consumer outcomes.
Xs sales process and the wider context
I have seen some of the training material provided by X to its representatives, which I
understand was current at the point Miss G made her purchase. When covering how to
explain the financial aspects of the sale, the word loan does not appear anywhere in the
training materials. The focus appears to have been on setting an affordable monthly
payment and, in my view, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid making the
arrangement sound like a loan. In the end, I dont think it is as clear as it should be about the
mechanism of payment. Additionally, I think some of the instructions in the training material
could be interpreted as encouraging representatives to rush through the explanation of the
financial arrangements.
In any event, even if Xs sales scripts and training materials had been perfectly clear, this
doesnt mean the representative followed the script, and I return to the point touched on by
the FCA in its letter to credit brokers: that oversight of salespeople selling loans to purchase
goods or services at consumers homes is difficult, and certain incentives (such as
commissions or bonuses) can increase the risk of poor consumer outcomes further.
I note this is not the first time this service has seen a case like this involving X. We have
seen a number of cases where complainants have claimed they were advised by Xs
salespeople that they could cancel the programme at a later date, or that they were using it
on a monthly subscription basis.
There doesnt seem to have been much connecting the complaints weve received, other
than the fact the products in question were sold by X. While this does not mean salespeople
routinely gave incorrect information, it suggests to me that misunderstandings may have
occurred not infrequently during the sales process. The fact that X appears to have felt it
necessary to include a clarification document as a standard part of its process, in my mind
tends to reinforce this idea. Indeed, when I asked X if its representatives were given
guidance on how to answer frequently asked questions from customers, it said that they
were not and suggested that the satisfaction form was designed to answer any questions
customers might have and clear up any misunderstandings. Finally, X also told me that it
informally operated a longer cancellation period than the 14 days set out in its contracts. I
can see the existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being
a potential source of confusion during the sales process. This, combined with an apparent
lack of guidance to representatives on how to answer common questions, again leads me
towards a conclusion that misunderstandings were not infrequent.
Again, this doesnt mean necessarily that Miss G must have been given incorrect information
during the sales process. But its part of the overall background and context of the sale so
Ive considered it, along with everything else Ive mentioned, when provisionally deciding
what is most likely to have happened in Miss Gs case.
Overall, I find there were some deficiencies in Xs sales process which increased the risk
that a consumer would not understand the arrangements they were entering into. However, I
am considering Miss Gs individual case, and just because I have identified some potential
problems with the way the arrangements were sold to her, does not necessarily mean she
failed to understand them. Ive gone on to analyse this further later in my decision.
What Miss G says about the meeting with XMiss G says that during the meeting with X the representative explained how the educational
programme worked and then presented her with a form and showed her where to initial and
sign it. She says she was told the programme would go up to GCSE level, and said that she
didnt think she would need it for that long as her son was in year 6 and just needed support
with his SATs. Miss G says she asked the representative if she could opt out at any point
and was told that she could. She says there was no mention of a loan.
The documents from the point of sale
Honeycomb has supplied a number of documents which Miss G is said to have signed
during the meeting with Xs salesperson. These documents are an electronically-signed
Proforma Enrolment Application, an electronically-signed Customer Agreement / Order
Form, and the hand-signed clarification form Ive referred to previously. Honeycomb has
provided the loan agreement, which was electronically-signed as well. The electronically signed 
documents have time-stamps  which appear to show the loan agreement being
signed at 18:13 and the other documents at 18:23. Honeycomb has also supplied a form
completed and electronically signed by the representative four days after the meeting with
Miss G, confirming that she had explained the loan agreement to her.
Miss G has never referred to signing anything electronically, but says she remembers
signing and initialling the clarification form and a receipt for her £100 deposit. Miss G said
she understood the total cost of the course, but believed that it could be cancelled at any
time because she had asked the representative if she could leave at any time like she had
with E, and had been told that she could. Regarding the clarification form, she says the
representative just showed her where to sign and initial and she didnt pay much attention to
it.
The clarification form is made up of nine separate points with a box next to each containing
Miss Gs initials. At the bottom the form has been dated and signed by Miss G. The points on
the form which I think are particularly relevant to Miss Gs complaint are points one to six.
The first point states that Miss G has chosen to pay for her Lifetime Licence by way of
Finance. The second point goes on to set out the overall cost of the programme and the
number of monthly instalments. Point three confirmed Miss G had electronically signed a
finance agreement if she had chosen to pay by finance, while point four explained there
was a 14-day cancellation period and point five said she was buying a Lifetime Licence and
there was no trial period. Finally, point six stated X provided the product but if Miss G had
chosen finance as her payment method then this would be provided by a third party or a
company associated with X.
On the face of it, I think someone who had read the form carefully would not find it
particularly unclear, although I do think some parts could have been made clearer. In
particular the clarification form mirrors the training material in that it does not call the loan a
loan. Finance is a word which is almost synonymous with loan in the world of lending, but
it is not the ordinary meaning of the word and I am not convinced that all consumers would
immediately understand finance to mean loan, especially if they had entered the sales
process with an assumption that they would be paying on a monthly subscription basis, as I
think Miss G likely did.
I think Miss G should have read this document more closely, but I dont think this means her
complaint is bound to fail. While what has been set out in writing often represents what has
been agreed between two parties, in my experience it does not always reflect what was said
during the conversations leading up to the point of signing. It is during these verbal
conversations where misunderstandings tend to occur, and these can sometimes occur due
to incorrect or misleading information having been given.
In respect of the other documents (including the loan agreement), I have no way of knowing
for certain if Miss G electronically signed these or not. An electronic signature is a valid
signature, but I think it is easier to tell who has completed such a signature in certain sets of
circumstances. For example, where a person is emailed a document to their personal email
address to sign electronically in their own time, on their own computer, using their owninternet connection, I think it is likely to be easier to verify their electronic signature.
My understanding is that Xs representative would have brought a laptop or tablet with them
on which all the electronic documents would have been signed. I think this is a different
proposition to the example above, as the signatures would have been made on a device
owned by X and logged into by their representative. Bearing in mind all that Ive said above
about the sales process, I think its more difficult to verify an electronic signature in these
circumstances. Miss G has only mentioned seeing the satisfaction form and a deposit form. I
think there is some cause to doubt that she signed the electronic documents herself.
I need to consider whats fair and reasonable however, and it may not matter if Miss G did
not apply the signatures herself if I find that she more than likely was aware of the nature of
the arrangements and had agreed to enter into them.
Miss Gs testimony
Ive analysed the evidence Miss G has given this service, X and Honeycomb at various
points during the complaints process. My impression is that her complaint appears to have
grown and gained more detail over time. But this doesnt necessarily mean that her evidence
and testimony are unreliable, and I think there are plausible explanations for apparent
inconsistencies in her evidence  I discuss a key example below.
On her initial call with Honeycomb Miss G was clearly very unhappy with the service she
was receiving from X, and she was aware that she had been paying Honeycomb for the
programme and that they were a separate company to X. She didnt raise any concerns on
this call about paying Honeycomb instead of X, or being signed up to a loan with them. On
the face of it, this would indicate that she was aware of the arrangements and was content
with them  but was unhappy with the quality of the service being provided.
But I note that nowhere on this call was there any mention of the agreement with
Honeycomb being a loan. Miss G was aware that Honeycomb were calling to ask why shed
cancelled her direct debit, and she became aware on the call that they were intending to
charge her for missing her recent payment. But direct debits, or charges relating to missed
payments, are not exclusive to loans. To someone who was unaware that a loan was being
discussed, the phone call could just as well have been about a cancelled direct debit for a
service. So I dont think Miss Gs failure to mention she was unhappy that shed been signed
up to a loan on this first call means she must have been aware of and agreed to the loan. I
think its more likely she still wasnt sure of what the financial arrangements were at this
point.
Conclusions regarding the sales process
Taking into account everything Ive said above, I dont think X made it clear to Miss G that
she was taking out a loan or that she would be unable to cancel the course at a later date
and not have to continue paying. I think it likely led her to believe that she was paying a
monthly subscription, as she had been with the previous tuition service shed used, and that
she could cancel this later without further liability.
I dont think Miss G would have agreed to sign up for the programme, or the associated loan,
if she had been properly informed about the nature of the arrangements.
What this means for Honeycomb
I think Honeycomb, bearing in mind its liabilities under sections 56 and 75 of the CCA,
should try (as far as practically possible) to put Miss G back in the position she would have
been in, had she not signed up, taking into account the value of any service shes received
from X.
Ordinarily I would say that this means Miss G should only have to pay up to the point she
attempted to cancel.
Miss G says there were various issues with the programme, such as a lack of academicsupport from X and technical difficulties with getting it to work on certain electronic devices,
so Ive thought about whether this affects the amount she should pay.
Ive concluded that Miss G  though clearly unhappy with the quality of the content and
services offered by X  hasnt provided enough evidence that the content fell below a
satisfactory standard, or that X failed to provide its services with reasonable care and skill.
So on the whole, I dont think the amount she should have to pay should be reduced on
account of the way the programme was delivered by X.
Miss G replied to say that she accepted my provisional decision. Honeycomb replied to say 
that it disagreed. I think it would be fair to summarise its response as follows:
It didnt agree that Miss G was not made aware she had been taking out a loan, 
because she had signed a number of documents which all showed that this was what 
she was doing. It didnt think the wording of those documents was unclear in any 
way. If Miss G hadnt read these properly at the time, then this was her responsibility. 
She couldnt now say she had been misled.
It didnt agree that Miss G was unaware she was entering into a lifetime agreement 
for the programme, for essentially the same reasons.
Miss G had hand-signed a document which confirmed she had electronically signed 
the other documents dating from the point of sale, so it couldnt be said that she 
hadnt signed the electronic documents herself.
Miss G had the opportunity to ask questions at the time of the sale and didnt do so.
Miss G had received a welcome letter from Honeycomb shortly after entering the 
agreement, which made it clear she had signed up for a loan. Had she been unaware 
of this fact, they would have expected her to query this at the time, but she didnt.
It was wrong to say that the clarification document was included as part of the sales 
process in order to correct misunderstandings or wrong information given during that 
process. It was designed to summarise and clarify what had been agreed. 
The case has now been returned to me to review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The majority of Honeycombs points in response to my provisional decision are ones I have 
already considered. Honeycombs position throughout the complaint has been that the 
documents dating to the point of sale can be the only accurate representation of what was 
understood and agreed to by Miss G at the time.
I accepted in my provisional decision that what has been set out in writing often represents 
the agreement which has been reached between two parties, but explained that it was not 
always as simple as this, and in my experience what is written does not always reflect what 
was said in the conversations surrounding a sale, and these conversations are important 
because this is where incorrect or misleading information tends to be given. Put another 
way, I do not think that signed paperwork is necessarily a magic bullet or trump card 
which allows one party to avoid responsibility for incorrect information it has provided to the 
other. It is important but is not the only evidence to consider.I referred elsewhere in my provisional decision to a number of factors which when combined 
with Miss Gs recollections led me to believe that X likely gave her incorrect information 
which led her to believe she was signing up for a monthly subscription service that she could 
exit at any time. These included:
A script which didnt clearly explain a loan was being taken to pay for the programme 
and appeared to encourage only a brief discussion of the financial arrangements.
That salespeople hadnt been trained in how to answer common questions from 
consumers.
That X saw a need for a clarification form to be included in the sales process 
suggested misunderstandings were not uncommon.
The existence of different formal and informal cancellation policies.
The higher risk of poor consumer outcomes inherent in an unsupervised face to face 
sale at a consumers home by a salesperson whose remuneration was linked to their 
success in signing up customers, which had been identified by Xs regulator.
The likelihood Miss G would have entered the sales process already believing she 
was signing up for a subscription service due to her past experience of tuition 
services. 
The risk that Miss G may not have seen or signed the electronic documents herself 
given the circumstances of the sales process.
The fact that we have seen a number of similar complaints about sales conducted by 
X.
Honeycomb has commented on some, but not all, of the above factors in its response to my 
provisional decision. It has said the clarification form was not designed to correct 
misunderstandings or wrong information. It was designed to summarise and clarify what had 
been agreed.
I am not sure what Honeycomb has said is really much different to what I said in my 
provisional decision. The fact that what had been agreed needed to be clarified suggests it 
was not always made clear to begin with. 
In any event, to say that the clarification form was intended only to summarise what had 
been agreed is not consistent with what X has told this service about it previously. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, X has suggested to this service that the clarification 
form was intended to answer questions consumers might have and clear up 
misunderstandings.
Ultimately, I remain of the view that having considered Miss Gs recollection of what she was 
told, combined with the broader context and the specific circumstances of the sale, that it 
was more likely than not that she was led to believe by X that she was signing up for a 
monthly subscription service as opposed to a long-term, uncancellable agreement. 
Honeycomb has recently provided a copy of a welcome letter which it says it sent Miss G in 
the weeks after she had purchased Xs programme. The letter says she has a loan 
agreement and it was correctly addressed to her. There is no other evidence of it having 
been sent or received, and it isnt unclear why it has taken this long for Honeycomb to 
provide it, but on balance I think Honeycomb would most likely have sent this letter. And because it was correctly addressed, I think Miss G would have received it. Miss G has 
previously told us she received some correspondence from Honeycomb and had filed it 
away. This may have included this letter. 
I think the letter would have been enough for Miss G to understand that she had a loan. It 
doesnt necessarily mean she was given correct or clear information at the point of sale, but 
had Miss G been unhappy that she had a loan I would have expected her to contact X or 
Honeycomb to say so shortly after she received the letter. I have to conclude therefore that 
even if Miss G wasnt aware she was agreeing to a loan at the point of sale, she was made 
aware shortly after and was content with that arrangement. I accept Honeycombs argument 
on this point.
What I dont think the welcome letter would have done is dispel any belief Miss G had that 
she was unable to exit the programme at any time as though it was a monthly subscription. I 
remain of the view that she was most likely given incorrect information about this and would 
not have gone ahead with either the programme or the loan had she been properly informed.
Bearing in mind Honeycombs responsibilities under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, it now needs to put Miss G back in the position she would have been in (as 
far as is practical) if she had not signed up for the programme and loan, taking into account 
the value of any services shes received from X. 
Putting things right
My directions to Honeycomb are the same as those outlined in my provisional decision:
Cap Miss Gs liability under the loan to the sum of the repayments which she would 
have owed up the date she first contacted X or Honeycomb to cancel, or when she 
cancelled her direct debit (whichever date is the earliest).
If Miss G has paid more than her capped liability, refund to her any payments she 
has made above the cap, adding interest calculated at 8% simple per year* 
calculated from the date she made any overpayments to the date she receives a 
refund.
If Miss G has paid less than her capped liability then Honeycomb must arrange an 
affordable plan with Miss G to repay any outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file in relation to the 
loan and record it as settled in full from the date she cancelled her direct debit. If 
Miss G has not paid up to her capped liability then Honeycomb must still remove any 
adverse information from her credit file but does not have to record the loan as 
settled until Miss G has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Miss G for the return of anything she received under the contract with X,  
such as any free laptop, and the ending of access to any digital content or services.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Honeycomb to take tax off this interest. Honeycomb must
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Miss G asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in this final decision and the extract from my provisional decision, I 
uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct Honeycomb Finance Limited to take the actions set out 
in the Putting things right section above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman