DRN-3191625
The complaint
D, a business operating as a sole trader, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave it incorrect 
information about whether there was a charge on the owners home causing distress.
What happened
D had a long-standing overdraft from HSBC secured it thought by a charge over the owners 
personal home. The owner explains that he was asked to refinance this into a loan. He didnt 
want to do so and repaid it. He wrote to HSBC to ask that the charge be removed. And he 
was unhappy to be told first that there was no charge, and then that the charge in place 
related to his personal banking. The charge was removed, and he said hes been worried 
about possibly losing his home over a number of years. He had no response from HSBC.
HSBC provided a copy of a final response letter it had sent to D offering to pay 
compensation of £150. It said that the charge had been released. And that it had been an all 
monies charge and so had covered all the lending taken out by D as a sole trader. It 
apologised for the confusion and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more than this. She said that 
there had been misinformation. But that the charge had covered all the liabilities of D and the 
business owner to HSBC. And so, the worry about the impact of not paying back the lending 
was something the owner would have experienced even if hed been given the correct 
information. The charge was security and the property could have been at risk.
D didnt agree. The owner said that the final response was poorly worded and doesnt make 
sense. Hed been told by HSBC that there was no paperwork now or systems records, and 
he expected a better investigation including from this service. For HSBC to have been able 
to investigate the charge it must have evidence of what was in the agreement. He thought 
things had been guessed and he couldnt understand how £150 was arrived at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D is right to say that there isnt complete information from the time the charge was taken. In 
its complaint form it explains that the overdraft dated back from the early Eighties starting at 
about £40,000 and reducing to £30,000. And that every year around March there was a 
review and the subject of the charge came up. He took this seriously. And he was distraught 
to be told in March 2019 that there had never been a charge on the business of D but on his 
personal account.
I am going to start by working from what isnt disputed. And then consider the specific points 
that are in issue here and assess the impact.
D was at all times a sole trader and legally not separate to the owner. The owner of D 
agreed to give a charge to secure business borrowing against his property. He and his wife 
signed a document. And he says that this was regularly discussed with HSBC. There was no 
suggestion until 2019 from what he says that there wasnt a charge and that there being 
such a charge wasnt the intention of both parties. 
D repaid the borrowing. The owner was wrongly told that there was no charge at all. 
Believing that to be wrong he investigated this further. He was told that this charge related to 
his personal accounts in July 2019. And at that time HSBC arranged for the charge to be 
removed.
I havent seen the charge document but as it was signed by the owner and there is no 
distinction between him and D I think it unlikely that it covered only personal liabilities, 
especially as that wasnt the intention. HSBC says it was for all monies. If it didnt for some 
reason cover Ds borrowing then that would have been a mistake. There is no suggestion 
including from D that this is what it thought the position should have been. I think it highly 
unlikely HSBC would have provided D with the borrowing without security.
I think it most likely that the business manager in March 2019 made a mistake possibly 
because the system coding was wrong that she looked at. She said that there was no 
charge at all to start with. And her response in July 2019 wasnt straightforward because 
although she said the charge related to personal borrowing she immediately requested that it 
be removed. She ought to have admitted then that a mistake had been made. There was 
clearly no basis for a charge relating to personal borrowing.
I need to think about the impact on D. The owner was always responsible personally for its 
borrowing. He believed that this was secured by a charge on his property. That either was 
the position or was the intention. So, Im afraid that I dont think things ought to have been 
different as far as his personal feelings and any worry about D and the borrowing. The 
charge ought to have been removed in March 2019 and it was in July 2019. D was provided 
with poor service. And I think that the compensation offered by HSBC in my view reflects this 
and so I wont be increasing this which I know will be disappointing for D.
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay D £150 to settle this complaint and I think that this is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay D £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman