DRN-4133100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Elderbridge Limited has incorrectly recorded information on their 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F complained to Elderbridge after noticing a missed payment marker on their 
credit file for August 2022. They questioned why this was there as they said theyd 
maintained their monthly payments and they believed Elderbridge had made a mistake when 
it reported the missed payment.  
The contractual monthly payment on Mr and Mrs Fs secured loan is due on the first day of 
each month but Mr and Mrs F pay this via standing order on the 29th of each month. This 
hasnt normally resulted in a late payment marker being recorded as the payment was 
always made within a calendar month of it being due. Elderbridge explained the missed 
payment had been recorded because Mr and Mrs Fs payment made on 29 July had not 
been credited to the account until 1 August 2022.  It said this was because the payment was 
sent on a Friday and the next working day was a not until the Monday, so when it was 
processed and applied to the account, it was a month late which triggered the late payment 
marker.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and thought Elderbridge had acted 
fairly. Although the payment was sent by Mr and Mrs F on 29 July, it was not credited to the 
account until the next working day. He thought it was reasonable to expect that a payment 
may not be applied immediately. And as it couldnt be applied until 1 August, Elderbridge 
had correctly reported that the payment was late.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the outcome. They said it had been demonstrated that the 
payment had been made by them on time, with it being sent on 29 July. Mr and Mrs F 
couldnt control when Elderbridge applied their payments, but as theyd sent the payment via 
a faster payment method, it should have reached the account on time. And regardless of 
when Elderbridge applied the payment, it had been made on time by them.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and the complaint has been passed to me 
for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs F sent their monthly payment on 29 July 2022. Elderbridge 
accept it was sent at this point but feel it has acted fairly when it has recorded the payment 
as late when it was unable to apply this until the following working day. 
In support of their position, Mr and Mrs F have highlighted that theyve managed their 
account in this way for many years and theres been months previously where the payment 
has been made on Friday and applied on the same day. So Elderbridge now doing 
something different with the payment and not processing it on the day it was sent by them is 
unfair. 
I understand the frustration Mr and Mrs F have with the way Elderbridge has recorded this 
payment and why theyd want it updated to reflect when it was paid. But I dont think 
Elderbridge has done anything wrong when it didnt apply the payment on the date it was 
sent by Mr and Mrs F. And I think Elderbridge has correctly recorded the payment as late.
Mr and Mrs F have focused on the late payment marker not being a result of them paying 
the monthly payment later than they normally would, but because of when Elderbridge 
processed the payment.   
Although a faster payment will generally appear in the recipients  account within 2 hours of 
the payment being made and normally immediately, it must be credited at the very latest, by 
the end of the following business day. So although previous payments made on the same 
day credited the account on the same day, it isnt a guarantee this will have happened. 
The credit agreement for the loan explains when the monthly payment is due, with this being 
the first day of each month. Mr and Mrs F have always paid later than this date with their 
payment being sent towards the end of the month. This has not been recorded previously as 
a late payment despite being paid after the due date. This is because the payment was 
made and applied before Elderbridge would report a payment as late, but I dont think it 
would be fair to say the payment was made on time.
When Mr and Mrs F made their payment at the end of the month, despite it being due on the 
first, it meant there was little room for manoeuvre before a late payment could be recorded.  
In this instance, the weekend falling at the end of the month impacted when the payment 
could be applied. And although sent before the end of the month, it wasnt credited before 
this point. 
The late payment marker is a correct reflection of how the account has been managed as 
the payment was made late and it was credited to the balance on the account late. I dont 
think it would be fair to say Elderbridge has made an error when this has happened as it 
processed the payment as soon as it was able to do so based on when it was sent.
I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed that I dont agree Elderbridge should amend their 
credit file, but I do think this correctly reflects when the payment was made and whether this 
was made inline with when the credit agreement sets out it was due.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman