DRN-4173739
The complaint
Mrs C complaints Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim against her home
insurance policy for escape of water.
Mrs C is supported by her family. For ease of reading, I will refer to them collectively as F.
What happened
In April 2022 a home insurance policy was taken out with Aviva to cover Mrs Cs property. In
June 2022 Mrs Cs health necessitated her move into a care home. F visited the property
regularly over the following months while a sale was arranged, and the property remained
fully furnished.
In December 2022 a pipe(s) froze and burst, leading to an escape of water. F made a claim
against the policy. Aviva didnt accept the claim on the basis a loss of this nature isnt
covered when a property is unoccupied. It also said it should have been told of the change in
Mrs Cs circumstances so the policy could be amended.
F didnt think this was a fair outcome. In their view they had done enough to ensure the
property had been occupied in line with the policy terms. They also considered the specific
circumstances of the claim, including Mrs Cs vulnerabilities, had been overlooked. They
asked our service for an independent review.
The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded Mrs C
(via F) had ensured the property remained occupied. F accepted the Investigators
recommendation. Aviva didnt accept the recommendation as it remained of the view the
property had been unoccupied. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start by setting out the relevant policy terms:
1. Important notice  information we need to know about
You must always take reasonable care to give full and correct answers to the
questions we ask when you take out, make changes to, and renew your policy.
Please tell us if anything on your policy schedule or Information Provided by You
document is incorrect or changes, including (but not limited to):
leaving your home unoccupied for more than the number of days shown on 
your schedule;
And
Buildings section  whats not covered?
Loss or damage caused by any of the following when your home has been left
unoccupied for more than the period shown on your schedule:
- malicious people or vandals;
- water escaping from or freezing in water tanks, pipes, plumbed-in home 
appliances, fixed equipment or fixed heating system;
- heating fuel leaking from a fixed heating system;
- theft or attempted theft.
And
Unoccupied
Not lived in by you or anyone who has your permission or doesnt contain enough
furniture for normal living purposes.
Lived in means that normal living activities like bathing, cooking and sleeping are
regularly carried out in the home.
The schedule says:
The home will be unoccupied for ' Not more than 30 consecutive days ' during the
period of insurance."
These policy terms arent unusual, and the exclusions around a home being left 
unoccupied are common as unoccupied properties are more likely to suffer from the 
sorts of things set out in the terms than an occupied property. And here, the terms 
are relevant to the circumstances of the claim. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mrs Cs property was occupied when the loss 
occurred.
F say, broadly, they regularly visited the property between Mrs C moving out 
and the loss, including staying overnight and bathing, cooking and sleeping. 
They say the property was fully furnished. And they point out regularly isnt 
defined in the policy. They consider the property was occupied at least once 
every 30 days, with perhaps one exception due to poor weather.
Aviva say, broadly, checking on the property isnt living in the property. And 
based on dates provided by F there were 17 overnight stays in about a 
seven-month period, which it about 8% of the period. In its view that cant 
mean the property can reasonably be said to have been lived in. It also says it 
should have been informed of the change in circumstances so policy 
amendments could be made.
The loss arises from a frozen pipe(s) bursting, leading to an escape of water. As I
understand it, heating was on, but only set at 14 degrees Celsius. This is a lower
temperature than the 18-21 degrees Celsius a well-known central heating supplier
recommends during the winter months. So, would the pipe(s) have frozen had 
someone been permanently living in the property and had the heating on at a higher 
temperature?
F say, in their detailed complaint letter of 3 January 2023, that they think the pipe(s) burst sometime between 12 December 2022 and 18 December 2022, with the claim 
being made on 23 December 2022. They describe the impact as follows:
The pipe(s) that burst appear to have been in the loft of the property. The damage 
upstairs to the property can be seen in 3 bedrooms, the upstairs study, landing and 
bathroom. The master bedroom/ensuite bath appear to have escaped any visual 
signs of damage. The water damage has also made its way downstairs to the 
kitchen, dining room, garage, staircase and hallway. All the carpets in the 
aforementioned areas have been destroyed as have a range of items of furniture, 
curtains and possessions. The areas of the property need complete redecoration and 
replacement of all furnishings.
This is a significant amount of damage. Would the damage have been as significant 
had someone been permanently living in the property, and therefore noticed the burst 
pipe(s) and done something about it sooner?
While Fs arguments are well made, Im not persuaded the property was occupied. I 
find the terms are clear in that Aviva expected (and based its risk on) someone living 
in the property. That cant happen all the time because people need to go away, for 
example on holiday. Hence the allowance to be absent for up to 30 days.
Visiting and staying in a property occasionally  once every 30 days, or even once a 
week  is not, in my view, based on the terms (or the ordinarily meaning) living in it. 
And while I accept the property also received attention from a gardener and estate 
agents, I dont consider this materially changes matters. It follows I find it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim on the basis the loss wasnt covered 
because the property wasnt occupied.
F have made arguments around Aviva not treating Mrs C fairly by not taking her
vulnerabilities into account. I dont find these arguments change the outcome. I say 
this because F had been dealing with Aviva, from quote to claim, not Mrs C. Nor am 
I aware of any requirements for Aviva to have made a bespoke product for Mrs C 
based on her age. And vulnerability doesnt, in itself, lead to a claim being successful 
when it otherwise wouldnt be.
Overall, while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs C, and great deal of respect for 
the efforts and consideration shown by F, I must approach this matter objectively. 
And having done so, my provisional decision is that Aviva has dealt with this claim 
fairly and reasonably. It follows I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Neither party provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman