DRN-3498430
The complaint
Ms R complains about what happened after she requested Digital Moneybox Limited 
(Moneybox) to close her Moneybox ISA account which operated via an application (App) on 
her phone. She is unhappy that the account hasnt been closed in line with her instructions. 
What happened
On 29 April 2021, Ms R contacted Moneybox and asked how she could close her ISA 
account as she didnt want to start incurring charges for it.
Moneybox responded saying: I have frozen collections for your Stocks & Shares ISA, so 
nothing further can be collected for that account. To close down the account, youll just need 
to make a full withdrawal in Settings > Withdraw once your most recent deposit is available 
for withdrawal, which will be by the 12th of May.
Regular emails continued to be exchanged between Ms R and Moneybox. On 2 May, 
Moneybox confirmed to Ms R that payments in transit would not be included in the 
withdrawal request, as these funds were still pending settlement in Ms Rs ISA account on 
12 May. 
Ms R was concerned that Moneybox was still collecting payments into her ISA account 
because the ISA payment settings she could see on the App still showed a weekly payment 
collection of £2. She continued to request Moneybox to close her account. 
On 25 May, Moneybox replied to Ms R reminding her that she hadnt been able to make a 
full withdrawal from the account before 12 May as this was the earliest date that her deposits 
would be fully settled. It said: I've checked your account and can see that you requested a 
full withdrawal on the 2nd May, so the full funds were not available to be withdrawn, as they 
were not fully settled. You can request a full withdrawal of the remaining funds in app by 
going to Settings > Withdraw. I hope that clears things up for you, but please do let me know 
if you need anything else at all.
On 1 June, Ms R confirmed she had withdrawn all her funds and asked Moneybox again 
How do I close the account?
Moneybox replied on 2 June and explained that Due to the way our accounts work, there is 
no official closure process of the type that you have outlined, and accounts are only able to 
exist in a considered closed state where the plan value of the account is £0 and 
contributions into it are frozen. Your account is in this considered closed state, and my 
apologies that we're unable to provide a closure process additional to this
When Ms R escalated her concerns into a formal complaint, Moneybox confirmed that the 
account was in a closure state and all payments were stopped. It acknowledged that 
although no further payments had been collected and paid into her ISA account after her 
instructions on 29 April, the payment settings in the App had reverted back to £2 after Ms R 
set the amount to zero on 15 May. It confirmed that there hadnt been any further changes 
since Ms R had last reset payment collections to zero on 8 June so it said it looked like the 
issue was resolved. Moneybox offered Ms R a payment of £10 as a goodwill gesture for the 
inconvenience this may have caused her.
Ms R didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel she had seen enough to be able to uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Whilst our investigator was sympathetic to Ms Rs position and recognised her strength of 
feeling about the risks of having an account open indefinitely, her view was that Moneybox 
hadnt done anything wrong and it had responded fairly and reasonably to the concerns 
raised by Ms R. Our investigator confirmed that potential data breaches were a matter for 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Ms R disagreed with our investigator. She mainly said:
Moneybox didnt freeze deposits when instructed and the account is still open, after 
all this time. (Hiding an account is not the same as closing it.)
If opening a Moneybox account meant I was opening an account in perpetuity, 
I should have been told this prior to opening the account. I wasnt.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Ms R  I can understand she feels frustrated. But having thought about 
everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Ms Rs complaint is that Moneybox didnt deal with the 
closure of her ISA account in the way she was reasonably entitled to expect and that it 
should have told her before she installed the Moneybox App that her closed account would 
still be able to be displayed inside the App.
.
I find that Moneybox responded fairly and reasonably when it received Ms Rs instructions to 
close her ISA account. It provided information promptly and continued to engage with Ms R, 
repeating the information she needed to know. Its unfortunate that information visible to 
Ms R on the App caused her to be concerned about ongoing payments being taken against 
her wishes. And I appreciate Ms R feels that it was only her continuing oversight and 
intervention that prevented this happening. But Moneybox has confirmed that after Ms Rs 
initial request on 29 April 2021, when she first asked about closing her account, it froze her 
account and no further payments were taken from her bank account and paid into her 
account. So what Ms R says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to find that Moneybox 
did anything wrong.
I appreciate why Ms R is concerned that having a dormant account could impact on her 
credit rating or leave her exposed to fraudsters. But Moneybox confirmed it would set the 
account status as closed in its systems, once the final withdrawal was completed. A closed 
account is different to a dormant account. So I dont think the technical limitations of the 
App, which I understand Moneybox to be saying prevent the record of Ms Rs account being 
deleted after closure, are something Id reasonably expect Moneybox to tell customers about 
before they use the App to open an account. In order to be able to uphold Ms Rs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that Moneybox 
has done something wrong  and I havent seen enough here to do so. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms R. But as Im satisfied Moneybox dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling 
it to take any further action.
If I have not referred to each and every point mentioned during the course of the 
correspondence about this complaint, its because I have nothing further I can usefully add 
to what our investigator has said already. In my decision, I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the outcome 
Ms R hoped for, she will at least feel that the aspects of her complaint that we can 
investigate have been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman