DRN-1580040
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2005 and 2006. Mr B and Miss W says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham and 
Gloucester at the time) mis-sold them PPI.  
What happened
Mr B and Miss W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005 and a further advance in 
2006.
The first policy was sold with a mortgage in 2005 and wouldve covered Mr B and Miss W 
(with a 50:50 benefit split) if they couldnt work through accident, sickness or if they lost their 
job.
The second policy was sold with a further advance in 2006 and wouldve covered Mr B and 
Miss W (with a 50:50 benefit split) if they couldnt work through accident, sickness or if they 
lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
During the sale of the two policies, Mr B and Miss W remained in full time employment and 
with the same employer. As the documentation provided by Lloyds for both policies is the 
same, Ive dealt with both sales together rather than separately. 
Mr B and Miss W have said they werent aware they had PPI. Lloyds have said the optional 
nature of the policy wouldve been clear and they wouldve needed Mr B and Miss Ws 
consent before adding PPI to their account. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into 
account all the evidence that is available.
Lloyds have provided me with both mortgage agreements as well as both the PPI proposal 
forms Mr B and Miss W have signed. 
The mortgage agreements show PPI as being presented as optional. The separate forms for 
PPI have also been completed and signed by Mr B and Miss W  these forms have been completed separate from the mortgage agreements. A specific benefit split has been chosen 
on both occasions which indicates a discussion took place about PPI on both occasions. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B and Miss W have said, and I dont doubt that theyve 
given me their best recollection of the sale. But on balance, and having taken everything into 
consideration, I think its likely that Mr B and Miss W chose to take the PPI, knowing they 
could refuse it if they didnt want it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B and Miss W so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
I can see Mr B has told us that he suffered with a pre-existing medical condition when he 
bought the policy. Ive thought about this carefully. The policy wouldve meant Mr B couldnt 
have made a claim for his pre-existing medical condition. But from what weve been told it 
doesnt seem like it affected his day to day life. So I still think the policy was suitable for him 
as the policy wouldve covered him if he was off work ill for other conditions unrelated to his 
pre-existing medical condition. 
Mr B and Miss W have told us they would have received six months full followed by six 
months half sick pay from their employers if they were to be off work unwell. The PPI policy 
could have helped cover Mr B and Miss Ws repayments for up to 12 months per claim if 
they became too ill to work, or if they became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay they had and for longer than their sick pay lasted at full pay. The PPI policy 
wouldve also paid out on top of any redundancy payment they may have got if they became 
unemployed. 
And as there couldve been serious consequences of not keeping up repayments on a debt 
secured against their home, if Mr B and Miss W couldnt work or lost their jobs then the PPI 
meant their monthly mortgage payments wouldve been met. So I think the PPI policy 
couldve been helpful to them. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B and Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them 
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B and Miss W have said but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr B and Miss W some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr B and Miss 
Ws mortgage was a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission Mr B and Miss W paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman