DRN-4374517
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her life 
insurance.
For simplicity I will refer to Halifax rather than Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again here 
in detail. In summary Ms M took out a level life cover plan with Halifax in 2009 to end on her 
65th birthday. She has said she has been treated for her mental health for many years and 
that when she understood the plan shed had it for some time. She feels she paid into a plan 
that had no benefit because it ended too soon.
Our investigator didnt find that Halifax had done anything wrong. Ms M appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms M met with an adviser in February 2009. He recorded that she wanted to leave a 
financial legacy for her two children in the event that she died before she retired from 
work. She wanted cover for 14 years and had a monthly budget of £10. The adviser 
considered Ms Ms demands and needs and recommended Ms M paid £10 a month 
into a level life cover plan. The adviser had to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of his advice to Ms M, who was entitled to rely on his judgment. I dont find 
that the adviser failed in his duty or that the plan was unsuitable for Ms M, it matched 
her requirements.
Im sorry to note that Ms M has problems with her mental health. However in 
response to a questions asked by the adviser she replied that she didnt have any 
relevant health or disability issues. It follows that this wasnt something the adviser 
could have taken into consideration.
Ms M was given an illustration and sent a policy booklet and financial report. The 
illustration and financial report both clearly showed the term of the plan was 14 years. 
Im satisfied that Ms M could make an informed decision about the arrangements 
proposed. She did have the option to change her mind within 30 days of taking out 
the plan  and this was highlighted in the financial report. 
I havent disregarded Ms Ms testimony that she didnt realise the plan would end 
when it did, and that it had no benefit because it ended too early. But in all the 
circumstances I dont find that Halifax mis-led or mis-sold the policy to Ms M. Should 
she have passed away during the term of the plan it would have paid the guaranteed 
benefit. Halifax has been on risk for the term of the plan which has now come to an 
end. This being so there is no basis for me to require Halifax to return any amount of 
the premiums paid or to use those premiums to set up a new plan.
I recognise that Ms M will be disappointed by my decision but in all the 
circumstances I dont find that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did anything 
wrong. Im sorry that this decision doesnt bring Ms M more welcome news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman