DRN-4240663
The complaint
Mr W complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave loans he 
couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr W was advanced five loans from Mr Lender and a summary of his borrowing can be 
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 06/08/2013 30/09/2013 1 £270.00
2 £550.00 30/09/2013 20/12/2013 1 £715.00
gap in lending
3 £250.00 28/07/2018 14/12/2018 3 £123.33
4 £550.00 14/12/2018 05/04/2029 6 £214.86
5 £1,500.00 05/04/2019 sold 12 £314.00
Mr Lender only has the information contained within the above table about loans one and 
two. So, it doesnt for example have the income and expenditure information it likely 
collected from Mr W at the time.  
For loans 3  5 the loans were structed so that each payment decreased in value through 
the life of the loan. 
Following Mr Ws complaint, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain why it wasnt going to uphold 
it.  However, it made a gesture of goodwill offer to remove unpaid interest from the balance 
of the final loan and then once that was repaid it would remove each loan from Mr Ws credit 
file. Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint. She said Mr Lender made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans one, three and four. However, for loans two and five given the 
increase borrowed amount and the amount Mr W would need to repay. She thought 
Mr Lender ought to have done further checks, but without copies of Mr Ws bank statements, 
wage slips or any other evidence of his circumstances at the time she couldnt uphold his 
complaint. She therefore felt the gesture of goodwill offer was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree and said he couldnt provide bank statements as the account he used at 
the time was closed. Later on, he provided a screen shot of the front page of his credit report 
from February 2018 which does show a poor credit score. 
The adjudicator explained to Mr W why this screen shot didnt change her mind about the 
complaint. Mr W didnt agree and as no agreement has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed, plus the interest due, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Mr Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ws complaint.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Loans one and two
I understand that when these loans were granted it was Mr Lenders usual process to ask a 
customer for details of their income and expenditure. However, due to the passage of time 
Mr Lender isnt able to provide details of the information it collected about Mr W. And Mr W 
hasnt also been able to provide details of employment or outgoings perhaps through his 
bank statements. 
So even though, there was a large increase in borrowing for loan two which perhaps ought 
to have facilitated further checks by Mr Lender, I am not in a position to say what those 
further checks may have shown. 
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about these loans. Loans three  five
There was a significant break in borrowing between Mr W repaying loan two and returning 
for loan three. Which for the purposes of this complaint Mr Lender could treat his 
applications afresh and as if he were a new customer. 
For all of these loans Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks. It asked Mr W to 
declare his income and expenditure details and it also carried out a credit search. 
Having thought about these checks Im satisfied for loans three and four the checks were 
proportionate, and the checks showed the loans to be affordable. Ive explained why below. 
Mr W declared his income for all the loans to be £1,200 per month  as these were the first 
loans in a new chain it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what it was told.  
Mr W declared monthly outgoings of between £357 at loan three and up to £510 for loan five 
and so based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr W 
had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided us with a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. I 
want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that ought to have led 
Mr Lender to carry out further checks. It knew Mr W wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three 
years preceding the loan. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for each loan Mr W didnt have any 
outstanding AAI loans. These are advance against income and so Mr Lender was informed 
that there were no outstanding payday loans. Again, further evidence that Mr W wasnt 
reliant on lending and / or was likely having financial difficulties. 
I can see from the screen shot provided by Mr W that in February 2018  so only a matter of 
months before loan three was approved his credit score was low and wouldve potentially led 
to Mr Lender asking more questions before it agreed to lend. 
But I also have to consider that Mr W declared sufficient income and expenditure to afford 
the loan and the credit search results provided by Mr Lender didnt suggest that he was 
having difficulties  which given the extract Mr W has provided of his credit score at the time, 
Im prepared to accept Mr W did experience. 
Overall, given the checks Mr Lender carried out Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr W declared about his income and expenditure for loans three and four. The 
checks Mr Lender carried out where proportionate and showed Mr W could afford his 
repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either be 
unaffordable for her or unsustainable. 
However, loan five was due to be repaid over the course of a year, and Mr W had borrowed 
more than he had for the previous two loans, and they were taken out fairly quickly after 
each loan had been repaid. So perhaps, at this point in time Mr Lender ought to have done 
further checks in order to satisfy itself that Mr W could make the repayments in a sustainable 
manner. However, Mr W hasnt been able to provide copy of his bank statements from around this 
time, and while Ive seen a screen shot of Mr Ws credit file from February 2018, I dont know 
what Mr Lender is likely to have seen in April 2019 even if it had carried out further checks.
Weve not received any further credit reports or information from Mr W to make me think that 
had Mr Lender carried out further checks it wouldve decided that either the loan was 
unaffordable, or the lending wouldve been unsustainable for him. So, I cant uphold his 
complaint about loan five either. 
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender has already made a gesture of goodwill to settle 
the complaint and Mr W should contact Mr Lender directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman