DRN-1652986
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service provided by Together Personal Finance Limited (TPFL) 
when she made an application for a residential mortgage. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs C contacted TPFL to find out about applying for a residential mortgage. 
Following discussion of Mrs Cs circumstances TPFL said Mrs C didnt meet their lending 
criteria so they wouldnt be able to offer her any products at the time. Mrs C was told during 
this call that TPFL would need to see a six months clear history of everything being cleared 
and then paid on time.
In May 2019 Mrs C contacted TPFL about applying for a residential mortgage. Mrs C was 
provided with details of a mortgage TPFL could offer. The terms of mortgage confirmed that 
the mortgage would be provided with an interest rate of 7.12% per annum fixed for 5 years. 
Mrs C completed an application form to apply for this mortgage. Mrs Cs application was 
referred to the underwriters. The underwriters requested further evidence from Mrs C, 
including (amongst other things) evidence of her attachment of earnings (AOE). 
On 17 June TPFL were still awaiting evidence from Mrs C in respect of her AOE. On 28 
June Mrs C spoke with a TPFL adviser, and it was recorded I confirmed that we still need 
the AOEsaid she will get an update on Monday. On 1 August TPFL emailed Mrs C saying 
just a quick courtesy email to see if there has been any movement with the attachment of 
earnings. Any update is greatly appreciated. 
On 2 September it was recorded that TPFL were awaiting up to date payslips from Mrs C. 
Later that month TPFL informed Mrs C that a surveyor had been instructed however wasnt 
able to get in touch with Mrs C to arrange a date to view her properly. TPFL attempted to 
contact Mrs C by phone and email. On 7 October TPFL emailed Mrs C saying that We have 
tried to get in touch on a number of occasions with no response if we have not had a 
response from yourself within the next 7 days we will close your application. 
Mrs C complained to TPFL about their failure to help her when she contacted them to 
arrange a residential mortgage. TPFL didnt uphold the complaint saying their decision to 
decline lending in 2018 was fair as Mrs C hadnt met their lending criteria, and they offered 
Mrs C the rate that was available when assessing her application in 2019. The investigator 
found that TPFL had acted reasonably, and didnt ask them to do anything in settlement of 
the complaint. Mrs C wasnt happy with this response and asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having reviewed the evidence I broadly agree with the investigators findings on this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs C but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The first part of Mrs Cs complaint relates to TPFLs decision not to lend to her when she 
contacted them in January 2018 about applying for residential mortgage. Ive listened to the 
call with the TPFL adviser. During this call a credit file check was completed, and Mrs C was 
asked questions about her financial circumstances. 
Mrs C explained that there were agreements which shed defaulted on in the past. She also 
explained that many of the payday loan agreements which shed defaulted on had been 
escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and shed received compensation for some 
of these complaints, and other others were under investigation. 
Mrs C was also asked about a credit card, where there had been late payments recorded for 
the last 3 months. Mrs C explained shed set up a direct debit that hadnt been set up 
correctly, and she was in a position to make payments on time going forward. 
Mrs C was asked about two communication company outstanding balances showing on her 
credit file. Mrs C explained the first was concerning business E, and had been settled on 15 
December 2017. The TPFL adviser agreed that the credit check may not have been updated 
with this information. Mrs C said she was unsure which business the second balance of 
£863 related to, but indicated it may be business B. 
Mrs C was asked about a Court decree for £8,800. Mrs C explained that she was paying for 
this through monthly repayments from her salary, and had been doing so since 3 September 
2015. 
Following this discussion, the TPFL adviser placed Mrs C on hold while her application was 
discussed with another TPFL adviser. Mrs C was then told that because of the evidence 
indicating late payments, defaults and the Court decree, TPFL wouldnt be able to progress 
her application for a residential mortgage at that time, as she hadnt met their lending 
criteria. She was told that TPFL would need to see a six months clear history of everything 
being cleared and then paid on time.
We wouldnt look to tell a business what lending criteria to use when making a decision on 
whether to lend. We would consider whether the decision to decline or agree to lend was fair 
based on these factors. 
Having considered the information provided to TPFL in 2018 I dont think TPFL acted unfairly 
in their decision not to lend to Mrs C at that time. TPFL acted reasonably in asking Mrs C for 
permission to complete a credit file check during the call. This check showed a number of 
previous defaults, recent late payments, and outstanding debts. Mrs C was provided with 
information about what her credit history would need to look like in order for her application 
to be progressed further next time. I think these actions were fair. 
When Mrs C applied again in May 2019, she was offered a residential mortgage with an 
interest rate of 7.12% per annum fixed for 5 years. Mrs C has told this service that this rate 
was too high, and she shouldve been offered a better rate. Ive seen that after being 
provided with details of this rate, Mrs C continued with this application by providing 
supporting documents to TPFL. TPFL contacted Mrs C through phone and email from June-
October 2019 to progress the application. Although some of the requested documents were provided, Mrs C later disengaged from the process, and the application was cancelled. In 
looking at the actions taken by TPFL when considering this application, I think these were 
fair, and I dont think Mrs C was treated unreasonably. 
In calls to this service Mrs C has described in detail how difficult a time shes had in trying to 
move from a commercial mortgage to a residential one. I am empathetic to all that Mrs C has 
been through; overcoming personal challenges to try and stay on top of her finances, and 
continually finding ways to reduce her monthly mortgage payments. When considering this 
complaint, Ive looked at the service provided by TPFL specifically when considering her 
application for a residential mortgage in 2018 and 2019. I appreciate Mrs C has held a 
commercial mortgage, and within this complaint has commented on service failings about 
this commercial mortgage. But this doesnt fall within the scope of this complaint. For the 
reasons provided I think the service provided by TPFL in 2018 and 2019 was reasonable. So 
I wont be asking TPFL to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman