DRN-2556461
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D, who are the partners of A, a firm, complain that National Westminster Bank 
Plc allowed one of the other partners to pay money from the business account without the 
correct authority.
What happened
Mr D, Mrs D and a third party, who Ill call Z, went into business together. They set up a 
business account with NatWest, which included an overdraft, with the business borrowing 
secured by a charge over the business property.
Mr and Mrs D say the account required cheques to be authorised by two signatures. But 
they say NatWest allowed Z to issue a large number of cheques with just one signature  
and also allowed Z to set up internet banking without their permission. As the account is 
overdrawn, NatWest say Mr and Mrs D are liable for the debt.
Mr and Mrs D complained, so NatWest reviewed what had happened. It says that it was 
wrong to allow Z to access the business account without the necessary authority, and it said 
it would review transactions Z made if Mr and Mrs D could identify which transactions they 
dispute.
Our investigator looked at this and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
based on what Mr and Mrs D had told us, theyd known Z was able to write cheques with a 
single signature since the mid-1990s. So this was something theyd appeared to have 
allowed Z to do. She also noted that Mr and Mrs D werent able to say whether or not these 
transactions were for genuine business purposes. So she didnt think that NatWest needed 
to reimburse them for the cheques.
Mr and Mrs D dont agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, if a cheque is not signed in line with the mandate it holds from the 
customer, the bank should not pay it  and if it does, it will need to make good any loss that 
payment causes the customer.
But if the customer becomes aware that someone has forged a signature on a cheque, they 
have a duty to tell the bank without delay. If they do not, and the bank pays the cheque in 
good faith, then it may not be fair for the customer to recover the value of the cheque or 
cheques from the bank.
In this case, Mr D says Z had been writing cheques from the joint account with a single 
signature since the 1990s. He says his accountant highlighted this to him at that time - and 
he also informed the bank of this. NatWest, however, says that it was unaware of any 
dispute between Mr and Mrs D and Z until the cheque disputes were reported in 2019.
So Ive had to decide whats most likely to have happened based on all the information Ive 
seen.
I dont find Mr Ds account of what happened plausible or persuasive. If Z was writing 
cheques with a single signature since 1990 or thereabouts, I think its surprising that Mr and 
Mrs D didnt take further steps to stop Z doing this in future. Mr D, Mrs D and Z were in 
business together  and so there was a real possibility that Mr and Mrs D might become 
financially responsible for anything Z did in the course of that business.
In fact, it appears that as many as 5,300 cheques may have been paid over the years before 
the account was finally blocked  5,000 of these by July 2014. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Mr D 
hasnt been able to say which of these cheques are genuine and which had only one 
signature  and hes said hes had little involvement in the running the business or this 
account since 1988. But when I asked NatWest for copies of the five most recent cheques 
paid from the account, each of them had two signatures, and the payees werent obviously 
inconsistent with payments connected to the firms business. 
I also note that as part of his complaint Mr D also questioned what had happened to the 
proceeds of sale of a property  which on investigation appeared to have in fact been paid 
into Mr and Mrs Ds joint current account in 2006. It appears some of the proceeds from the 
sale were used to repay a mortgage that Mr D says he was unaware of  which may have 
been connected to debts incurred by Z on behalf of A. But he doesnt appear to have raised 
this concern with NatWest until 2019  and Z continued to manage the business. This again 
calls into question the weight I can place on what he says about the historical operation of 
the account.
Based on everything Ive seen, it seems most likely that Z was responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the business  and the business account. Given the very large number of 
cheques that were issued, and the time over which the account was active, I think its likely 
that Z was operating the account with Mr D and Mrs Ds permission. At the very least, I think 
Mr and Mrs D tolerated what Z was doing. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair 
to tell NatWest it now needed to refund the cheques.
Turning to the online banking, I see that NatWest acknowledges that it allowed Z to set this 
up without Mr and Mrs Ds permission  and that it shouldnt have done this. To put things 
right, it offered Mr and Mrs D a hamper. Looking at the statements, I see there were a 
number of payments made out of the account by online banking  one payment of £2,000, a 
payment of £60, three payments of £20, a payment of £10, and a payment of £250, all in 
July 2019. But Ive not seen sufficient information to show these payments werent 
connected to As business  and I note these online transactions followed shortly after 
incoming payments of greater amounts. And in addition to online banking, Z had a debit 
card, which allowed him to make payment transactions and withdraw cash without needing 
the permission of Mr D or Mrs D. So while I think NatWest could have done more to prevent 
Z from accessing online banking, Im not satisfied that Mr D or Mrs D are in a materially 
worse off position because of this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman