DRN-2936689
The complaint
Mr B complains that payments he tried to make using his debit card have been blocked by 
Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr B complained to Nationwide after a payment he tried to make towards a 
catalogue shopping account was blocked. Nationwide issued a final response and said the 
payments Mr B had raised had been blocked by the Verified by Visa (VBV) process. 
Nationwide gave some guidance on other ways Mr B could make payments. 
Nationwide also paid Mr B £50 to apologise for the delay in sending him a debit card. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed the payments were held by VBV and thought Nationwide had dealt with 
Mr Bs complaint fairly. Mr B asked to appeal and said that when a payment was declined he 
was shown a screen shot asking him to contact Nationwide to process it. As Mr B asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B has told us his Visa card payments were blocked on a number of occasions. As a 
result, Mr B has explained he wasnt always able to make payments to cover bills including 
his catalogue account. I dont doubt what Mr B has told us about how inconvenient having 
payments blocked was. And I understand he was using his card to make payments to cover 
bills. 
Whilst I can see Mr B has been inconvenienced, I have to balance that against the account 
terms and Nationwides attempts to protect its customers from fraud. Nationwides account 
terms say it can refuse to make a payment if it has reasonable concerns about fraud. One of 
the systems used by Nationwide to identify potentially fraudulent card payments is VBV. 
Nationwide also has its own fraud prevention systems in place. 
In this case, Nationwide has provided systems evidence that shows the payments Mr B has 
complained about were halted as a result of being identified by the VBV system. Nationwide 
has explained it doesnt have control of this system as its operated by Visa. Whilst I 
understand Mr B has concerns that legitimate payments he was trying to make were held up, 
Im satisfied Nationwides account terms allow it to do that in the circumstances of his case. 
Mr B has told us he sees a message to contact Nationwide when the payments are stopped. 
Mr B has queried why Nationwide is able to approve a payment thats blocked as part of the 
VBV process. Nationwide has explained that whilst the payments are blocked by Visa as 
part of the VBV process, it can then approve them once the customer gets in touch. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent found that Nationwide incorrectly blocked 
payments from his account. Im satisfied Nationwide has correctly explained the VBV 
process and that it has acted in line with the account terms. I havent been persuaded to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Nationwide paid Mr B £50 to reflect a delay in sending a card to him. In response to the 
investigator, Mr B said this was a separate issue and had been settled. As Mr B has 
confirmed this part of his complaint was resolved by Nationwide, Im not going to comment 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman