DRN-3128963
The complaint
Mrs V has complained that Ageas Retail Limited (Ageas) mis-sold her motor insurance on 
the basis that the policy included no claims discount (NCD) protection.
What happened
Mrs V took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas. She told us she was clear that NCD 
protection was important to her and confirmed her policy included the protection before she 
agreed to take it out.
Ageas accepted that it had made mistakes and had told Mrs V that her policy included NCD 
protection when it didnt. Ageas also said it had made a further error by recording Mrs Vs 
address incorrectly. Ageas said it would still have considered any claim made under the 
policy as it was its fault that the address was recorded incorrectly. As Mrs Vs policy didnt 
include NCD protection it offered to refund her the difference between what she paid with 
Ageas and what she had been quoted elsewhere without the protection. It also offered Mrs V 
£150 compensation.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Vs complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought 
the compensation Ageas had offered should be increased to a total of £250.
Ageas accepted our Investigators view. Mrs V didnt agree as she said that she would have 
lost her NCD had a claim been made, which would have had a significant impact on her 
financially. As Ageas had breached the contract Mrs V feels she is entitled to a full refund. 
As Mrs V didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by either side. So, what I need to look 
at, is whether the compensation suggested by our Investigator and agreed by Ageas is a fair 
way to resolve the complaint.  
Mrs V has benefitted from having a motor insurance policy in place, which is a legal 
requirement when driving on UK roads. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Ageas 
to refund the full premium to her.
As Mrs V said she was able to get cheaper insurance elsewhere without NCD protection but 
paid the higher price because NCD protection was important to her, Ageas offered to refund 
the difference between what Mrs V paid to have insurance with it without NCD protection 
and that she would have paid for a cheaper like for like policy elsewhere.
Ageas also offered Mrs V £150 compensation for the errors it had made.
I accept what Mrs V has said, that had she been involved in an accident her NCD would 
have been reduced, and this would have had a financial impact on her. But this is a 
hypothetical situation that didnt happen so I dont think it would be reasonable to take this 
into account. If Mrs V was involved in an accident and her NCD reduced, we could have 
considered that complaint.
Overall, as Mrs V did benefit from the policy, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
Ageas to refund its full cost. But I agree with our Investigator that the £150 offered by Ageas 
did not adequately compensate her for the mistakes Ageas made.    
Putting things right
Ageas should increase the overall compensation it has offered Mrs V to resolve her 
complaint to £250. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman