DRN-2882635
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1997. Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, havent been disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Hs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear Mrs H didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. I say 
this because Mrs H hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. Also, 
the card application had a Payment & Purchase Protection section with a box to tick if 
the cover was wanted. On Mrs Hs form, which she signed to take the card, this box was 
ticked - and I think she wouldve known it shouldnt be ticked if she didnt want cover. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover  and it 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Given what it could pay and all Mrs H has said about 
her work benefits, I think the policys benefit wouldve been useful for her.
Mrs H couldnt claim if she missed work with her ongoing health issue or the issue shed 
had an operation for over 10 years earlier. But taking into account all shes told us, Ive 
nothing to make me think these werent resolved by the time of the sale or controlled by 
treatment  so what I have doesnt persuade me this exclusion wouldve affected Mrs Hs 
decision to take the policy had she known more about the policy terms. Overall, it seems 
like the policy wouldve still been useful to Mrs H if something went wrong. Because of 
this, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
The policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions. But in light of Mrs Hs circumstances at the sale, and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her, as Ive noted. 
So I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs H wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and in her circumstances it couldve provided a useful 
benefit. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs Hs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman