DRN-2675339
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information on her credit file 
when she took a payment holiday on her mortgage during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs M requested a payment holiday for her mortgage via Barclays online 
system. The application was initially rejected due to a discrepancy with the postcode she 
provided. 
Mrs M didnt find out her payment holiday had been rejected until she contacted Barclays on 
1 June 2020. A new application for a payment holiday was submitted and because Mrs M 
had previously been advised by Barclays to cancel her direct debit for the mortgage  it was 
requested to cover the months of April, May and June 2020. The payment holiday was 
agreed on 2 June 2020.
On 30 June 2020 Mrs M contacted Barclays as she had received notification saying her 
mortgage was in arrears. Barclays capitalised the arrears for April, May and June 2020, 
effectively backdating the payment holiday to cover the months she had requested  she 
was told this wouldnt affect her credit score.  
Mrs M later noticed her credit score had been affected and raised a complaint. Barclays 
investigated the complaint and found that no adverse information had been reported to her 
credit file due to the payment holiday delay. However, in recognition of the impact the delay 
caused, it paid Mrs M £200 compensation. Mrs M remained unhappy and raised a complaint 
with our service. 
Whilst the complaint was with our service Barclays found they had reported adverse 
information to Mrs Ms credit file about the payment holiday. This was cleansed from 
Mrs Ms credit file on 22 September 2020. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays had fairly compensated 
Mrs M in the circumstances. They acknowledged the impact Mrs M had said the error 
caused and recommended Barclays pay a further £150 compensation. This was for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the additional delays in cleansing Mrs Ms credit file. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She didnt feel the level of 
compensation was a fair reflection of the stress, anxiety and worry caused to her during the 
first few weeks of being a new mother. She also mentioned that the impact to her credit file 
stopped her from getting a new mortgage and made her lose her dream home  it also 
impacted what interest rates were available to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance for lenders 
with regards to mortgages. The guidance was aimed to help mortgage customers whose 
financial circumstances had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance said 
lenders should offer a payment holiday to borrowers where appropriate and that there should 
be no negative impact on a customers credit file. 
There is no dispute that Mrs M experienced problems when she requested a payment 
holiday. There were delays with putting the payment holiday in place and issues with it 
showing Mrs M as being in arrears. Barclays had also recorded adverse information on
Mrs Ms credit file about the payment holiday. 
Im satisfied that Barclays have since rectified these errors by ensuring the payment holiday 
has been correctly applied to Mrs Ms mortgage account. It has also removed all adverse 
information in relation to the payment holiday from Mrs Ms credit file. This is in line with the 
FCA guidance and what I would have expected Barclays to do. 
Mrs M has said that because Barclays recorded adverse information on her credit file, it 
prevented her from obtaining a mortgage in principle and made her lose her dream home. 
She has also said it impacted the interest rates that were available to her and might make 
her miss out on the stamp duty holiday. 
Ive seen no evidence to support what Mrs M has said about the impact the adverse 
information on her credit file had on her ability to secure a mortgage. So, I cant say with any 
certainty that it was the sole reason for why Mrs M was unable to obtain a mortgage in 
principle. 
In any case, a mortgage in principle isnt a guarantee a mortgage will be offered. A more 
detailed application of Mrs Ms financial position would still have needed to be undertaken 
before a mortgage could be formally offered. Therefore, I cant say that Mrs M would have 
secured the mortgage on the interest rate she initially wanted, been able to purchase her 
dream home or have been able to take advantage of the stamp duty holiday if Barclays 
hadnt made a mistake.
Barclays initially paid Mrs M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delays in setting up the payment holiday. Our investigator then recommended 
Barclays pay a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
additional delays  which Mrs M didnt think was a fair reflection of the stress, anxiety and 
worry she experienced during the first few weeks of being a mother. 
Im sorry to hear about how this situation has impacted Mrs M. Im sure it was a difficult time 
having to deal with a problem with her mortgage when she had just become a new mother. 
Whilst I agree that the delays Barclays caused with setting up Mrs Ms payment holiday and 
removing the adverse information from her credit file would have caused Mrs M distress and 
inconvenience, I think the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on businesses such as 
Barclays should also be given due consideration. 
Many businesses had to change the way they operate over night and had to deal with an 
increase in demand from their customers with regards to the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on their financial circumstances. This understandably meant that many 
businesses experienced delays when dealing with their customers requests. 
When taking into consideration the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the time it took 
Barclays to rectify any errors made with regard to Mrs Ms payment holiday  approximately 
6 months  I think a total of £350 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I note that since the complaint has been with our service Mrs M has since decided to redeem 
her mortgage with Barclays and has paid an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). I understand 
that Mrs M is unhappy she has had to pay an ERC, but I would like to be clear I have not 
considered this as it didnt form part of her original complaint.
In summary, I think the additional £150 compensation recommended by our investigator for 
the distress and inconvenience caused is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is the further £150 award to Mrs M by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. This should be paid to Mrs M if Barclays 
has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman