DRN-3605115
The complaint
Mrs U is unhappy with the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC operates its money transfer 
offer because it charges interest on purchases repaid in full.
What happened
Mrs U made a money transfer for £1,000 on 10 September 2021 at 0% interest until June 
2022. She applied online and did not receive full details by post as she expected. She feels 
the way Tesco applies interest if she makes purchases, even if she repays them in full each 
month, is unfair and misleading. She complained to Tesco and it offered compensation 
totalling £115 for poor service when she got in touch, and to supress all interest until January 
2022 as a goodwill gesture. However, it explained that it was charging interest correctly, in 
line with the terms of the account. But Mrs U says this meant she still needed to apply for 
another card for purchases which created work and stress for her. And she has lost out on 
Tesco points as she cant put all her day-to-day spend on the card as she used to. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Us complaint. She said Tesco had offered fair 
compensation for its service failings but that it had not made any error in how it operated the 
card and applied interest. On the reverse of each statement, and the terms and conditions of 
the 0% money transfer, it states if the statement balance is not fully cleared, interest will be 
charged on the average daily balance until full payment is made. This is what Tesco has 
done, and it has not charged interest on the money transfer but on purchases. She found 
Tesco had provided information about how the product worked so also sending this in the 
post would not to have changed Mrs Us access to the terms. She could not see the money 
transfer offer impacted Mrs Us capacity to earn points.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs U asked for an ombudsmans review. She said we have 
misunderstood her case and why she feels the product is unfair. She asks how it can be fair 
to be charged interest when she has repaid her purchase balance in full. This has caused 
her a lot of stress and inconvenience and forced her to open another card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Us complaint. Ill explain why.
I accept that Tesco is not applying interest to Mrs Us account in the way she thought it 
would. But it is applying interest in line with the terms of her account which say you will be 
charged interest on any purchases made, even if you pay off the full purchase balance each 
month, until you repay your balance or money transfer in full. This does not apply if you have 
a 0% interest rate on purchases.
Mrs U asked for an opinion on whether I think this is fair, but that is not what I need to 
decide. I need to decide if Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs U. As it has 
complied with the terms of her account I find it has. In addition, Mrs U has not provided any 
evidence to show why she understood the interest would work differently. It follows I do not 
find Tesco has made an error. And whilst Im sorry Mrs U has been inconvenienced by 
opting to apply for another card, and by not feeling she can earn as many points as before, I 
find neither of these issues are consequences of anything Tesco did wrong. 
Mrs U also raised that she did not receive any information by post, but she applied online 
where the terms were available. And each monthly statement provided a clear reminder of 
how interest would be charged on purchases where there was a money transfer on the 
account.
Tesco has acknowledged it did not always provide the best service when Mrs U got in touch 
about this, it apologised and paid £115 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, so I am not instructing it to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Us complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman