DRN-4337417
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC declined his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr C paid a deposit of £3,780 to a supplier for the supply and installation of a garden room 
using his Lloyds credit card. The deposit was paid on 4 February 2022.
Due to a change in circumstances, Mr C cancelled the order. The supplier told Mr C that it 
would allocate the materials for his job to another job and return his deposit within a couple 
of weeks.
Mr C chased the supplier for his refund but never received it. He raised a section 75 claim 
with Lloyds.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said that a breach of contract hadnt been proven.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the supplier had a 14 day 
cancellation policy and that Mr C had cancelled outside of this period so there had been no 
breach of contract by the supplier. The investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably in 
declining the claim.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed contacted the supplier to cancel within 14 days. He produced 
a transcript of a call which he said hed had with the supplier on 14 February 2022.
This service asked Mr C to provide a call recording of the call dated 14 February 2022. Mr C 
said he didnt have a recording and that he had produced the transcript from memory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Cs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract and that Lloyds response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The issue here is whether the supplier breached the contract by failing to return the deposit.
Ive reviewed the available documentation. The quote provided to Mr C is dated 10 January 
2021 (I think this is a typing error and that it should be 2022). The quote sets out the 
description of works and the payment schedule.
I havent seen any terms and conditions. Lloyds asked Mr C to provide these, but I cant see 
that Mr C or the supplier has ever provided them. Mr C has said that he never received any 
terms and conditions. 
Ive reviewed the suppliers response to Mr C regarding the request for a refund. In a text 
message dated 24 May 2022 the supplier advised Mr C that our usual term as per the 
contract is 2 weeks cancellation period. The supplier goes on to advise Mr C that it would 
like him to get his deposit back and that it will reallocate his materials to another job and get 
his deposit back to him within two weeks.
In order to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied 
that the terms and conditions of the contract say that the deposit is refundable if the contract 
is cancelled within 14 days. Although I havent seen any terms and conditions, it appears to 
be accepted by both Mr C and the supplier that a 14 day cancellation period applies. Even if 
there were no written terms and conditions, theres a standard 14 day cooling off period 
which applies here.
So, in order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that 
Mr C cancelled the contract within 14 days of paying the deposit, so within 14 days of 4 
February 2022.
There are two pieces of evidence which suggest that Mr C didnt cancel within 14 days. The 
first is the text from the supplier dated 24 May 2022, in which the supplier alludes to Mr C 
having cancelled after the 14 days period. The second is that when Mr C first made his 
section 75 claim, he advised Lloyds that he contacted the supplier in March 2022 to cancel 
the contract. Any date in March wouldve been outside of the 14 day period.
Mr C has since told this service that when he said March 2022 he was referring to the date 
when he first managed to speak to the director of the company, whom hed been trying to 
speak to by phone for some time.
Mr C hasnt provided an explanation or response as to why the suppliers text refers to him 
having cancelled outside of the 14 day period.
Mr C has provided a call record dated 14 February 2022 which lasts for 1 minute 15 seconds 
in which he says he cancelled the contract. I dont think anything turns on the length of the 
call. Mr C has produced a transcript of the call but acknowledges that he doesnt hold a call 
recording and has produced the transcript from memory.
In the absence of a call recording, I cant be certain of what was discussed during the call. 
Specifically, I cant be sure that Mr C cancelled the contract. The text from the supplier dated 
24 May is difficult to reconcile with Mr Cs assertion that he cancelled the contract on 14 
February 2022. If Mr C had cancelled on this date, there would have been no reason for the 
supplier to refer to the two week cancellation period or its intention to refund the deposit 
outside of this period.
On balance, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that there has been a breach of 
contract. Based on the evidence, I dont think Lloyds decision to decline the section 75 claim 
was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman