DRN-1730897
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
surrounding the switch of his bank account to NatWest.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr W and Santander, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. If Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
In July 2019 Mr W switched his account from Santander to NatWest. He thought the switch 
took place between 8-16 July, but NatWest have said it was actually requested on 28 June 
and completed on 5 July. However, Mr W then used his Santander card after the 5 July and 
Santander processed those transactions. Because there had been no prior agreed overdraft 
facility, those transactions, when processed, produced a debit balance which Santander 
classed as an unauthorised overdraft. Santander then sought to recover the debit balance 
from Mr W through their collections dept. 
Mr W is unhappy that the transactions were not automatically passed to NatWest so that 
they would appear on that account in accordance with the switch guarantee scheme. He 
also complained that Santander didnt give him any explanation or notice of his account 
going into overdraft, and thought that the account oughtnt to have been passed to their 
collections dept. He was unhappy that the collections dept rang him so often and was 
concerned that hed been charged overdraft fees.
Santander said that on completion of the switch on the 5 July that meant there was no 
money left in Mr Ws account, but as hed continued to use the card it had automatically 
taken him into an unauthorised overdraft position. They explained that for certain 
transactions under particular limits retailers dont always check with a bank that the account 
has sufficient money in it, before they accept the payment, and by the time the payment 
comes to be processed its too late for the bank to decline the transaction. Ultimately they 
said its the customers responsibility to ensure there is sufficient money in the account. 
Santander said they had not charged Mr W any fees or charges for going into the overdraft 
position and the only money they were attempting to recover was that which Mr W had 
actually spent on his card.
Mr W was unhappy with Santanders final response and so brought his complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly towards Mr W. Mr W didnt agree with that and asked that the 
complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  In cases where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, then I work on what is known as the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence which is 
available, and the wider circumstances of the case. 
The documentary evidence here, does show that the switch was completed on the 5 July. 
And the terms and conditions of the account say that after the switch was completed Mr W 
was not to use his card (Section 2b.3, point 1.21), and that he would be liable for any debt 
on his account after the switch.
I do appreciate the points Mr W has made following his communication with the Current 
Account Switch Service (CASS). But, our investigator also spoke to them about whether any 
debit card transactions made after the account switch date would automatically be 
transferred to NatWest and they said they wouldnt. What they did say is that Santander 
could have got in touch with NatWest regarding the transactions if they had wished to. So 
Ive considered what the impact has been on Mr W of their not doing so. The answer is that 
there has been no impact, because there has been no increase in the amount Mr W owes, 
because no fees or charges were added by Santander. Mr W now owes exactly the same 
amount as he would have owed had the transactions been switched to the NatWest. He just 
owes Santander and NatWest but the total is the same and Mr W has not lost out.
Ive also thought about the contact Santander made with Mr W. He feels it was excessive 
and amounted to harassment. And he feels Santander could have text him. Santander 
accepted they hadnt tried to text, but did accept that they had tried to call him on numerous 
occasions. Mr W said they had done so 9 times in as many days, which although it sounds a 
lot, I dont think is unreasonable in these circumstances as they were trying to bring to his 
attention that he had used his Santander account after the switch, and also trying to recover 
the money he owed. 
So, although Mr W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here. The switch process was completed, but Mr W continued 
to use his card when he shouldn't. That created the overdrawn balance position and debt 
due to Santander. And Santander were justified and reasonable in their attempts to recover 
the debt from Mr W, so I can't say they have been unfair or done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman