DRN-1426254
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that her credit file was adversely affected after she agreed a repayment 
plan when Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) reduced her overdraft limit. 
What happened
Mrs S opened a Nationwide FlexDirect current account, including a £1000 interest free 
arranged overdraft facility. After six months, Nationwide reviewed the account and reduced 
the overdraft to £250 because the payments to the account were less than Mrs S said they 
would be. It asked Mrs S to pay the outstanding amount.
Mrs S complained that Nationwide had reduced the overdraft limit without notice and said 
she wasnt in a position to pay the difference. She asked it to put the overdraft limit back to 
£1000. Nationwide offered to put the limit back up if Mrs S agreed a repayment plan. It 
explained that the limit would decrease each month when she made repayments until it was 
back at £250. Mrs S agreed and told Nationwide how much she could pay.
Nationwide informed Mrs S that the payment arrangement would be recorded on her credit 
file. She was unhappy about that but agreed to the repayment plan. However, two years 
later Mrs S complained to Nationwide that she was unable to remortgage her property 
because of the payment arrangement showing on her credit file. She is unhappy that 
Nationwide didnt tell her about the effect the arrangement could have on her borrowing.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He said that the recording of the call when 
Mrs S agreed to the repayment plan clearly demonstrated that Nationwide told her the plan 
would be recorded on her credit file. He noted that Mrs S also acknowledged, with 
dissatisfaction, that it would give her a bad credit rating.
Our investigator saw that the overdraft agreement stated the limit would be reviewed after 
six months and could be reduced with 14 days notice. Nationwide wrote to Mrs S telling her 
it was reducing her overdraft limit a month before the change. Our investigator thought that 
was sufficient time for Mrs S to bring the account under the limit if she was in a position to do 
so. He also noted that Nationwides letter informed Mrs S that it tells credit reference 
agencies about accounts in payment arrangements. Mrs S said she didnt receive the letters 
but, as our investigator was satisfied that Nationwide sent them, he didnt think it had acted 
unfairly.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she didnt receive the letter from Nationwide and, if she had, 
she wouldve contacted it to withdraw from the agreement. She also said that Nationwide 
didnt make her fully aware that the payment arrangement would adversely affect her credit 
file. Mrs S would like proof that Nationwide sent her the letter about the payment 
arrangement and evidence that it told her it would give her a bad credit rating.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Mrs S, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Ive looked at whether it was fair for Nationwide to reduce the overdraft limit on Mrs 
Ss account. The arranged overdraft agreement states the following key points:
[the] arranged overdraft limit can be reduced or withdrawn by us at any time and all 
overdrafts are repayable on demand. 
Before doing this we will consider the conduct of your FlexDirect account and the 
amount you are paying into the account.
We will aim to give you at least14 days' notice before reducing or withdrawing your 
overdraft or demanding repayment.
 
Nationwide wrote to Mrs S a month before it reduced the overdraft limit, explaining that she 
wasnt paying in as much as shed said she would. Im satisfied that Nationwide acted in line 
with the agreement it had with Mrs S. 
Mrs S complains that Nationwide didnt make her aware of the impact a payment 
arrangement would have on her credit file. I dont agree. Ive listened to the call recording 
when she discusses a payment arrangement and Nationwide tells her that the information 
will be reflected on her credit file. I have no doubt that she understood the impact of that 
because she responds to say that now shes going to get a bad credit rating. The agent 
does give her the chance to reject the arrangement but she goes ahead with it. Based on 
this exchange, Im satisfied that Mrs S was aware of the impact the payment arrangement 
would have on her credit file before she agreed to it. 
Mrs S says she didnt receive the letters from Nationwide telling her it was reducing her 
overdraft or explaining the impact of the payment arrangement on her credit file. Shed like 
proof that Nationwide sent them. Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs S says. I also have no 
reason to doubt that Nationwide sent the letters. It has provided copies of them showing the 
correct address for Mrs S and, on balance, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that it 
sent them as detailed in its records. Regardless of whether Mrs S received the letter about 
the payment arrangement, as explained above, it was clear during her call with Nationwide 
that she knew the information would affect her credit file. 
I can sympathise with Mrs Ss position when she experienced difficulty with a remortgage 
application. I think its understandable that shes frustrated by the impact now of an 
arrangement she made two years ago. However, I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman