DRN-3540486
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Equifax Limited recorded incorrect and negative data on her credit file.
As a result, Mrs Gs credit application was declined.
What happened
Mrs G says that in 2014 she had a problem with incorrect data on her credit file held with 
another credit reference agency (CRA). Mrs G says that she sent letters to the three main 
CRAs telling them about the problem.
In 2021, Mrs Gs application for a new mobile phone was declined. She searched her credit 
files across the three CRAs and found that Equifax was the only CRA holding negative 
information about a credit account that didnt belong to her. Mrs Gs Equifax report also 
showed data about other credit accounts that didnt belong to Mrs G.
Mrs G complained to Equifax in mid-June 2021 and it apologised. It said the mistake came
about due to a data matching error which it had since corrected. Equifax applied a notice of
disassociation to remove the third party information and offered to pay Mrs G £150
compensation.
Mrs G was unhappy with Equifaxs offer and came to this service for help. The investigator 
considered her complaint and recommended that Equifax increase its offer of compensation 
to £300.
As Equifax doesnt agree with the proposed outcome, the complaint came to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs G 
and Equifax on 16 May 2022. I said:
The background to this complaint is quite complex as it involves multiple parties  some of 
whom have changed names over time. With this in mind, I think it might be helpful for me to 
set out some of the chronology as this will explain why Im minded to reach my decision.
In 2014, Mrs G was contacted by a debt collection business I will refer to as W. W asked
her to pay a shopping catalogue debt which didnt belong to her. After Mrs G complained, W
explained that it had received information about her from a CRA which wasnt Equifax.
Mrs G then wrote to Equifax asking it to check its records in case it also held incorrect
information about her. Mrs G says she didnt hear back from Equifax but had no reason to be
concerned.
In 2016, Mrs G was contacted by another debt collection company called L. It looks as
though this concerned the same shopping catalogue debt  although over time, the shopping
catalogue company has changed names. Again, L confirmed that it received details of the
link to Mrs G from a CRA which wasnt Equifax.
Mrs G complained about the 2016 contact and thought the matter was resolved. Fast-
forward to June 2021, when Mrs Gs credit application for a new mobile phone was declined.
On checking her credit files held with the main CRAs, Mrs G says that only Equifax was
reporting information on her credit file about a defaulted account owned by L. Mrs G could 
also see information about other credit accounts  both current and closed - that didnt 
belong to her.
When Mrs G brought her complaint to this service in 2021, she was unhappy that Equifax
hadnt acted on her letter of 2014 and that it held information on her credit file about a debt
that was more than six years old. She thought Equifax should pay more compensation and
explain why it hadnt acted sooner.
I think its worth explaining that the shopping catalogue debt that led to Mrs Gs complaints in
2014 and 2016  isnt the same as the defaulted credit account that she found on her credit
file in 2021. The default related to a credit account that was opened in April 2015 and that
defaulted in October 2016. As the default was less than six years old at the time Mrs G
complained, I hope this explains why it still appeared (albeit mistakenly) on her credit file in
2021.
I should also say that according to Equifax, the original shopping catalogue debt wasnt on
the credit report it held for Mrs G when she complained. Having checked Mrs Gs Equifax
credit report from early July 2021, I cant see any record of it either.
I dont think theres any dispute that Equifax made a mistake as part of its data matching
process. But this service doesnt regulate or supervise the businesses that we cover. And its
not my role to punish Equifax for the mistake. Instead, I focus on the impact the mistake had
on Mrs G and whether Equifax should do more to put things right.
Mrs G, through her husband, has explained how much stress the whole issue has placed on
her  particularly as it goes back several years but I dont think I can blame Equifax for all of
this. I dont have enough evidence to conclude that Equifax made a mistake with Mrs Gs
data in 2014 or 2016 that appears to have been the fault of a different CRA.
Given the time that has passed, I also cant be sure that Equifax didnt act following Mrs Gs
letter telling it about problems with her data in 2014. So, my focus is on what Equifax did in
2021 once Mrs G told it about the problem with her credit file.
I dont want to appear to downplay the upset and stress that Mrs G has felt but once she told
Equifax about the third party data on her credit report, it acted fairly promptly to remove it by 
mid-July 2021  a month later. I dont consider that this was an unreasonable timescale on
the part of Equifax. Although Mrs G has some concerns about the way her complaint was
handled, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity that this service can generally consider
so I dont comment on these further.
I appreciate that Mrs G thinks that her credit application was rejected due to the default, but I
dont know if this is the case. The mobile phone company that turned her down says it cant
give a reason why Mrs Gs application was rejected. As it appears to have been made
through a third-party business, the mobile phone company concerned didnt have any record
of an account for Mrs G to investigate. This makes it difficult for me to find that the only
reason why Mrs Gs application was unsuccessful was because of Equifaxs data-matching
problem. And although not ideal  Mrs G was still able to obtain a new mobile phone through
other means.Mrs G has raised questions over Equifaxs processes and exactly how the data-matching
mistake could happen. I can understand her frustration with the situation but for the
purposes of resolving her complaint, Ive accepted Equifaxs explanation of what happened.
It would be for Mrs G to raise her concerns further with the regulator if she chooses.
I agree that Equifaxs data matching process let Mrs G down and that she was 
inconvenienced as a result but I dont consider Equifax should pay Mrs G £300 as
recommended by the investigator.
When Mrs G brought her complaint to this service, she wanted Equifax to refund the money
that her husband had provided so she could purchase a new phone. I dont consider this to
be a reasonable resolution to her complaint, given that Mrs G had the benefit of the new
phone so wasnt left out of pocket.
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Equifaxs compensation payment of £150
adequately reflects the impact its mistake has had on her. I understand that this may be
disappointing for Mrs G.
Further submissions
Equifax didnt ask me to consider any further points or information but Mrs G, through her 
husband, was very unhappy with my provisional decision. For ease, I will continue to refer to 
Mrs G rather than Mrs Gs husband.
Mrs G pointed out that shed not accepted the investigators proposed resolution to her 
complaint either. This was because she wanted one person from this service to investigate 
her concerns together so we could finally decide where the blame lay.
Mrs G thinks that Ive ignored the question of Equifaxs lack of response to her letter of 2014. 
Mrs G says that although Equifax might not have caused most of the stress shes gone 
through over the years, this has been compounded by Equifaxs mistake.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Gs frustration with the fact that her complaints havent been investigated 
together. I apologise that I didnt reflect this in my provisional decision but I was aware of her 
wish. As the investigator told her, the complaints are set up against individual businesses, so 
my decision focusses on Equifax. But before reaching my provisional decision, I did look at 
the linked complaints to better understand the background to Mrs Gs complaint against 
Equifax. 
I want to reassure Mrs G that Ive not ignored Equifaxs lack of response to her letter of 
2014. Its just that given the time that has passed, I cant be sure that Equifax didnt act on 
the letter or that it had been incorrectly displaying the third party data on Mrs Gs file for 
years. 
I am very sorry to hear about the stress and ill-health that Mrs G has suffered over an 
extended period but for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Ive had to consider 
the impact on Mrs G once she became aware of the third party data in 2021. Having done 
so, I still consider Equifaxs compensation payment of £150 was a fair way to resolve her 
complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Equifax Limited has 
already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman