DRN-2003646
The complaint
Ms P complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles (Arnold Clark) Limited mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms P was sold a PPI policy in connection with a finance agreement in January 2005. The 
PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up 12 months per claim if Ms P was off work 
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. Ms P didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. I understand that Ms P will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why I have decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms P was eligible for PPI. Bearing in mind Ms Ps age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Ms P was eligible.
Arnold Clark had to make it clear to Ms P that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
for it to be applied to the account. Ms P says she wasnt informed that PPI was optional and 
that the salesman made her feel she had to take PPI to be approved for the credit. She says 
that there were two other people who were present at the sale and they can also confirm that 
this is how the PPI was presented to her. Arnold Clark say the PPI was presented as 
optional and that being approved for the finance did not depend on PPI.
I should explain at the outset that while I note what Ms P has told us about witnesses, we 
are an informal service and cant compel or cross examine witnesses in the way that a court 
can. But I have thought carefully about everything Ms P and Arnold Clark have told us and 
looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to 
have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the PPI application form. I note that this set out (equally 
clearly) that Ms P could either accept or decline PPI and what she needed to do in case of 
either option. I note Ms P chose to take it out. She completed a separate application form 
and direct debit mandate for PPI. There was nothing in this document to suggest that taking 
PPI would improve Ms Ps chances of being approved for credit.
So while I appreciate what Ms P has told us, I cant agree with her that she was not informed 
that the PPI was optional. Of course it is possible that Ms P was told something different but 
given what Ive seen on the application form, I think Ms P ought still to have known that PPI 
was optional. And the available documentary evidence shows that that Ms P consented to 
taking PPI knowing she didnt have to. 
Arnold Clark say that they didnt advise Ms P to take PPI and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest anything different.  This means Arnold Clark didnt have to take steps to ensure the 
PPI was suitable for Ms P. So for example, they didnt need to take into account the savings 
that Ms P says she had in place. 
But Arnold Clark did have to give Ms P clear, fair and non-misleading information about the 
policy so that she could make an informed decision about whether to take it out or not. In 
particular, this would have meant drawing Ms Ps attention to the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policy. 
I can see that the costs of the PPI are set out clearly in the application form. But I dont know 
if Arnold Clark did give Ms P all of the other information as they should have. This in itself 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her of taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this 
because:
- The PPI would have paid out regardless of how much Ms P had in savings. Ms P 
could have used the savings, if they were still available to her at the point when the 
need arose, to pay for other essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the 
repayments.
- Ms P doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which may 
have made it difficult for her to make a claim or stopped her from making a claim 
under the policy.
- Ms P could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Arnold Clark mis-sold Ms P this 
PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint against Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman