DRN-2683707
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums he paid for a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 27 February 2020 to cover a trip 
he planned to take abroad in April 2020. He took out the policy through a broker, but the 
policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy was due to start on 14 April 2020 and 
end on 13 April 2021. The policy cost Mr R £849.06 and included optional add-on gadget 
and connecting flight cover. The premium included cover for Mr Rs medical conditions.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr Rs holiday was cancelled. So he got in touch with 
the broker on 27 March 2020 to ask if he could cancel his policy and get a cash refund of the 
premium.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr R a cash refund, because it said hed cancelled the policy 
outside of the cooling-off period. Ultimately, it sent him a credit voucher for the full value of 
his policy, which it said would be valid for three years from the date it was issued, which 
could be put towards any single or annual policy through the broker. It also said the voucher 
could be gifted to a third party.
Mr R was unhappy with Great Lakes offer and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. Although 
cover under Mr Rs policy hadnt started, Mr R had cancelled his policy after the 14-day 
cooling-off period had expired. So she didnt think he was entitled to any refund of premium 
under the policy terms.
But the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-
19. She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint was for Great Lakes to pay Mr R a credit voucher for the full value of his policy. 
She didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great 
Lakes needed to pay Mr R a cash refund of his premiums.
Mr R disagreed. He didnt think the investigator had appreciated the circumstances. He said 
he cancelled the policy as soon as the government imposed restrictions on travel, which still 
remain in place. He said he was unlikely to travel for the foreseeable future. He is elderly 
and he wont be in a position to travel to the same destination when the voucher expires in 
2023. Given the restrictions in place, hed had no choice but to cancel his policy and he felt 
that Great Lakes had retained his premium at no risk to it at all.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes has treated Mr R fairly. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr Rs cooling-off period ended on 12 March 2020. But the policy wasnt 
cancelled until 27 March 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-
off period. And I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion 
and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy 
term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  
such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the 
terms and conditions of Mr Rs contract with Great Lakes entitle him to any refund of 
premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes settlement of a credit 
voucher which is valid up until March 2023 and which represents the full value of Mr 
Rs policy is fair and reasonable. Thats because cover under the policy hadnt 
started when Mr R cancelled it, so Great Lakes hadnt been covering the risk of Mr R 
making a claim. 
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I appreciate that Mr R feels that the voucher is worthless, as current 
restrictions and his health mean he may not be able to travel again soon. However, 
while I accept that travel plans are still uncertain, the voucher can be put towards any 
policy through the broker  whether single trip or annual. It isnt limited to being put 
towards a policy covering Mr Rs previous destination. And it can be gifted to a third 
party. Its also valid until March 2023. So while I understand why Mr R would prefer a 
cash refund, I dont think the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.Having considered everything, while I know Mr R will be disappointed in my decision, Im not 
telling Great Lakes to pay him a cash refund of his premiums or do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman