DRN-4120021
The complaint
Mr H complains about how his vehicle was returned to him following a claim he made on his 
commercial vehicle policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV).
Reference to LV includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident which he didnt think he was at fault for. He informed LV - 
his insurer - and his broker of the accident. Initially his claim was being dealt with by an 
accident management company, but this was later taken over by LV.
LV accepted the claim and repaired the damage it thought was caused in the accident. But 
Mr H said LV didnt repair the door properly. And he says the car was returned to him with no 
fuel, a flat battery and a problem with the EGR valve. So, he complained to LV.
LV said it wasnt responsible for the repairs because they werent carried out by one of its 
approved repairers. But it said it sent an engineer to inspect Mr Hs cars door and they 
deemed the problems to be caused by wear and tear and not caused by either the accident 
or the corresponding repair.
Mr H didnt agree so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended it be upheld. He thought LV should pay to fix the door and fix 
the EGR valve and flat battery issue. He thought LV should pay a total of £300 
compensation too.
LV didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me.
Since our investigators assessment, Mr H has said he has been driving his car but often 
feels this is unsafe as the door can spontaneously open. Hes also said it wont lock and now 
the alarm wont work either.
I issued a provisional decision outlining what I thought. That decision said:
Technically speaking, the repairs werent carried out by one of LVs approved 
repairers. So, in normal circumstances, any issues relating to the quality of the repair 
or further damage caused wouldnt be LVs responsibility.
But in this case LV took over the claim, and when it did so, it didnt make it clear that 
the repairer it was at wasnt one of its approved ones. It also didnt offer to move 
Mr Hs vehicle to one. Had it done so, I find it likely Mr H would have taken up this 
option.
So, in this case, in Mr Hs eyes, the repairer was one of LVs approved repairers. And 
I think it fair that LV act as if it were too.
In relation to damage to the door, LV appointed an engineer who doesnt deem the 
damage to be part of either the accident or the repair  so based on this LV doesnt 
think it needs do anymore.
But Mr Hs testimony is that after the accident he door in question was jammed shut. 
And the MOT carried out only a month prior to the accident doesnt indicate anything 
about the door being unsafe. Mr H says the door doesnt say shut, which is a safety 
issue, so Id have thought this would have been picked up in the MOT if there was an 
issue with it.
On balance, there most likely is wear on this door, but I think it unlikely that the wear 
would deteriorate the door to the extent it no longer shut in the space of a month. I 
find it more likely that an intervening event, such as this accident, where the door got 
jammed, caused the damage to the door.
Therefore, LV should repair the door, including the door card.
Mr Hs car shouldnt have been returned to him with a flat battery and no fuel either. 
Having it returned in such a state would have caused Mr H distress. And driving the 
car around with the door unsecure at time would also be distressing and 
inconvenient.
But, Im not persuaded the EGR fault is linked to either the repair or the accident  so 
I dont require LV to contribute toward this.
I cant see LV has been made aware of either the alarm or the central locking not 
working. Indeed, they were only highlighted to us after our investigators second 
assessment of the complaint. So, if fixing the door and door card does not resolve 
the locking and alarm issue, Mr H would need to raise this a separate issue  and LV 
would need to look into it accordingly.
I said I was thinking LV needed to:
Repair Mr Hs car door (including the door card).
Pay Mr H a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
LV were disappointed with the decision but had nothing further to add.
Mr H said he had made us aware of the locking and alarm issue, so thinks that should be 
repaired too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision.
However, I will note that Mr H did make us aware of the issue with the locking and alarm 
prior to our investigator issuing their assessment. But to be clear, Im recommending LV 
repair Mr Hs door, including the card. So, if anything in that repair relates to the alarm or 
central locking, Id expect it to be fixed as part of the repair. That in turn, should fix the issue 
with the alarm or central locking.But if it doesnt, and the alarm and locking remain broken after the door has been fixed, as 
set out in my provisional decision, this would be something Mr H would need to raise with 
LV, and LV would need to deal with it accordingly. I know Mr H has given reasons for not 
raising this with it before, including raising it with his broker. But its important that LV get the 
opportunity to see what the issue is and whether its related to the accident or repair before 
we can decide on it here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Repair Mr Hs car door (including the door card).
Pay Mr H a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman