DRN-1141837
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1991. Mr 
and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI alongside 
their mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for them. Based on what Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did 
this.
I say this because the PPI had a 90-day deferment period  meaning Mr M (as the insured 
party) couldnt make a claim if he was unemployed or too sick to work for the first three 
months. Then, upon a successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st 
day. So, if Mr was off work for 89 days no benefit wouldve been due at all.
Nationwide says that as part of its process the policy wouldve been verbally described the 
policy to them, and Mr and Mrs M wouldve also been given a PPI leaflet  which included 
information about the 90-day deferment period. I dont have a recording or any notes from 
this sale so I cant comment on what may or may not have been said. And I havent seen 
any evidence that they actually received a leaflet of this kind, but I accept its possible they 
may have. So, Ive looked at the leaflets Nationwide says wouldve been provided around 
the time, but Im still not satisfied the information about the deferment period was sufficiently 
prominent to draw Mr and Mrs Ms attention to this term. 
In this particular case I think this wouldve mattered because Mr and Mrs M have said that 
Mr M wouldve only received statutory sick pay, and that they didnt have any other means to 
make their repayments. And as they chose to cover Mr M only, I think they wanted cover if 
the event Mr M was unable to work and its likely they were heavily dependent on his 
income. So, I think if Mr M was unable to work, they wouldve struggled to keep up their 
mortgage repayments for the initial three months before they were able to make a claim. And 
I think its more likely than not that they wouldve wanted to be able to make a claim on the 
PPI policy much sooner than 90 days  particularly as they had such limited other means of 
making their repayments.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had given them this 
information about the policy and I think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of what 
Nationwide did wrong.
Ive taken into account Nationwides recent comments including what its said about the 
arrears management measures it would have offered Mr and Mrs M if they were struggling to 
make their repayments during the 90-day waiting period. But these measures are informal 
and are at the discretion of Nationwide, so theres no guarantee that this type of help 
wouldve been offered or available when Mr and Mrs M may have needed it.
Ive also thought about what Nationwide has said about this PPI policy being the only one it 
offered at the time, and that it was better to have this cover than no cover at all. But Mr and 
Mrs M wouldve had the option to take a policy out with another provider and, in any event, 
this doesnt remove the responsibility on Nationwide to provide the information Mr and Mrs M 
needed to decide if the policy was right for their circumstances.
So, I dont think the points raised by Nationwide make a difference to the outcome, and I still 
think this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I think this complaint should be upheld, and Nationwide 
Building Society should put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman