DRN-2702201
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a mortgage account with Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) 
held in the joint names of Mr A and his wife, Mrs A (from whom he has been divorced for 
about 15 years). Mr A says that in May 2006 Halifax released the title deeds to Mrs A without 
his knowledge or consent, as a result of which he has been deprived of his rightful 
entitlement to a share of the value of the property.
Mr A wants Halifax to accept its part in this and to put things right for him.
What happened
I will begin by explaining that Mrs A, who was the joint account holder, isnt a party to this 
complaint. This means that I dont have her consent to be given any information about any 
contact or dealings she may have had with Halifax. I am only entitled to information relating 
to Mr A. Furthermore, due to the passage of time, there is limited information about this 
mortgage account. Theres nothing sinister or untoward about this; banks arent required to 
keep records indefinitely and usually for no longer than six years.
The events giving rise to the complaint took place many years ago. They relate to unhappy 
circumstances  the breakdown of Mr and Mrs As marriage. The complaint has arisen out of 
that situation, and, although the matrimonial proceedings do not relate to Halifax, I will refer 
briefly to them in order to provide context to this complaint. I will take care not to include any 
information that might result in Mr A being identified, as our decisions are published.
In June 1980 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Halifax, borrowing £6,000. They 
borrowed a further £4,360 on 11 January 1984. The mortgage was redeemed in full on 
4 May 2006 and the account was closed on 22 May 2006 when the deeds were sent to 
solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs A.
A document dated 22 September 2006 shows that it had been agreed between Mr and 
Mrs A that Mrs A would pay Mr A £3,000 for his interest in the property, and that this was in 
full and final settlement of all claims between them in their matrimonial proceedings. I 
understand that the divorce between Mr and Mrs A was finalised in 2012.
In October 2006 the solicitors returned the mortgage deed to Halifax, as the bank, in error, 
hadnt sealed the receipt. The solicitors asked Halifax to do this and to return the mortgage 
deed to them.
It appears that the property was at the time unregistered, as I can see a Memorial to the 
Registrar of Deeds lodged in 2006 recording the transfer of the property from the joint names 
of Mr and Mrs A into Mrs As name. The Registry of Deeds is a system of unregistered land, 
that is, properties which are not registered at the Land Registry. Under this system, a written 
summary (known as a Memorial) of the relevant document is lodged in the Registry of 
Deeds, along with the original document. 
From documents provided by Mr A, I note an application for first registration of the property 
at the Land Registry was made in Mrs As name in February 2015.
In about late 2014 or early 2015 Mr A instructed solicitors and hes provided a copy of a 
letter dated 12 January 2015 which contains no details of the name of the firm Mr A 
instructed. But the letter claims that the agreement dated 22 September 2006 should be set 
aside for various reasons that I will not set out here as they do not relate to Halifax.
In January 2020 Mr A made a complaint both to the Financial Ombudsman Service and to 
Halifax. Mr A said that the deeds had been released to Mrs A without his knowledge or 
consent, and as a result of wrongdoing by solicitors, hed been deprived of his share of the 
equity in the property.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, saying that all the events Mr A was unhappy about in 
relation to the property and his matrimonial proceedings had taken place after the mortgage 
had been redeemed and so was nothing to do with Halifax. Halifax said there was no marital 
dispute marker on the account. 
The bank did, however, pay Mr A £211.17, being 50% of a refund of fees and interest 
applied to the account. (Fees and charges arent issues raised in the complaint with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, so I wont comment any further on them.)
Mr A didnt accept what Halifax said and so our investigator looked at the complaint. She 
didnt think it should be upheld. The investigator explained that, once the mortgage had been 
redeemed, Halifax no longer had any interest in the property. All the issues about which 
Mr A was unhappy in relation to the property and his share in it had happened after that. The 
investigator explained that we couldnt look at Mr As concerns about the solicitors whod 
acted for Mrs A during the matrimonial proceedings, as this wasnt within our remit.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings. He thought there was a marital dispute 
marker on the account and that he had evidence to support this. The evidence was an 
extract from Halifaxs internal records which said: Marital Dispute  Mr and Mrs A separated 
in 2005.
The investigator asked Halifax for clarification of this and the bank explained that this was a 
note added in January 2020, in relation to the complaint. 
Mr A maintains that Mrs A went into the branch and collected the deeds on 4 May 2006, 
delivered them to the solicitors and that several months later in October 2006 the solicitors 
asked Halifax to back-date the deeds to 4 May 2006. Mr A is insistent that Halifax never told 
him that (as Mr A believes) the deed had been changing hands for over 5 months. Mr A 
believes that Halifax, as well as the solicitors, Mrs A, and his sons are all guilty of perjury, 
theft, professional misconduct and fraud.
In his latest letter dated 26 March 2021 Mr A has reiterated his concerns about Halifax, and 
has provided other information about his circumstances as far back as 2002.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I am entitled to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on the available evidence.
First, Ive noted that Mr A has been in poor health for many years, and I have read 
everything hes said about the effect this has had on him. I have no doubt this has been a very difficult time for Mr A, and so this makes what I have to say very difficult. But I have to 
reach a decision based on the evidence, and not allow my natural feelings of empathy 
towards Mr A to sway my judgment.
As I said at the outset, much of what Mr A has complained about is outside our remit. We 
have no power to investigate complaints against solicitors, or allegations of criminal activity 
against any of the parties Mr A has raised questions about. Ive read everything Mr A has 
said about the solicitors, but, because they arent covered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Mr As concerns about the solicitors dont form part of this complaint and so I will 
make no comment about those issues, notwithstanding that I am aware Mr A believes 
himself to be the victim of misconduct by the solicitors. I simply dont have any power to 
consider this issue.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr A says that he had no knowledge that the mortgage on  
the property had been discharged in May 2006 or that the deeds had been released. Mr A 
says that he has since found out that Mrs A went into the branch on 4 May 2006, paid off the 
mortgage and collected the deeds, which she gave to solicitors who, Mr A says, wrongly told 
Halifax were acting for both Mr and Mrs A. In October 2006, the solicitors, according to Mr A, 
then persuaded Halifax to change the date when the deeds were sent out.
The basic flaw with this argument, however, is that mortgage deeds are not kept at the 
branch, they are kept at a central deeds store. Its possible that Mrs A went into the branch 
to make the final payment on the mortgage  but I dont think this would not have resulted in 
someone in the branch handing the deeds over to her there and then, because the deeds 
wouldnt have been kept at the branch. 
The usual process is the bank will, after payment is made, retrieve the title deeds from its 
central store and will then vacate the mortgage by stamping or sealing the relevant section 
of the document (the receipt) which confirms payment has been made in full.  The deed is 
then sent to solicitors who (in 2006, before conveyancing became fully electronic) would 
send the required documentation with the relevant body to ensure the record of the 
mortgage is removed from the property title. In this case, as the property title was still 
unregistered in 2006, the relevant body was the Registry of Deeds. 
From the available documents, it would appear that Halifax sent the mortgage deed to the 
solicitors on 22 May 2006, but it seems that the solicitors identified several months later that 
the bank had neglected to seal the receipt. I say this because the mortgage deed was 
returned to Halifax on 3 October 2006 by the solicitors asking Halifax to please have the 
Receipt sealed and return to us as soon as possible. 
Im satisfied from my consideration of the available evidence that this is what is most likely to 
have happened. I can see that an administrative error by Halifax in neglecting to seal the 
Receipt (which wasnt done until October 2006) has fuelled Mr As suspicions that Halifax is 
somehow complicit in wrongdoing relating to the payment made by Mr A of £3,000 by his 
former wife as payment for his interest in the property.
But Ive been unable to identify any wrongdoing by Halifax. The bank seems to have made 
an administrative error by sending out an unreceipted mortgage deed in May 2006  which 
needed to be corrected in October 2006  and I think its likely that the error came to light 
when the solicitors were transferring the title from the joint names of Mr and Mrs A into 
Mrs As sole name, following the agreement that was reached between Mr and Mrs A in 
September 2006. But other than correcting the administrative error the bank made (not vacating the deed in 
May 2006), after the mortgage was paid off in May 2006, the bank had no further 
involvement in the property, nor in the transfer of the title into Mrs As sole name.
This means that, on the basis of the available evidence, Im satisfied that, after May 2006, 
the bank had no interest in the property, nor in any negotiations or agreement reached 
between Mr and Mrs A as part of their matrimonial proceedings in September 2006 relating 
to Mr As interest in the property and the transfer of the title to Mrs A, nor in any issues that 
subsequently arose which led Mr A to consult solicitors in 2014/15. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. But after looking at everything that 
happened, Im afraid I dont share Mr As belief that Halifax has done anything wrong. I am 
sorry if my decision causes any further distress to Mr A. But for the reasons given above, Im 
satisfied that Halifax had no further interest in the property after the mortgage was paid off in 
May 2006. It was only purely through an administrative error that the mortgage deed wasnt 
vacated until October 2006. 
I accept Mr A believes that hes been the victim of fraud by various parties, and I expect 
nothing Ive said in this decision is likely to change his view. If Mr A decides not to accept my 
decision, it wont be legally-binding on him, and hell be free to pursue his grievances against 
Halifax (and the other parties who arent covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service) in 
court or (in relation to any allegations of criminal offences) through the police. Mr A might 
want to take legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman