DRN-2425828
The complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC sends her text messages and calls her when shes 
asked it not to.
What happened
Mrs C has accounts with Barclays. Shes concerned about being targeted by fraudulent third 
parties and feels messages and calls could be used to draw her into a scam. Because of 
this, she doesnt want any messages or calls from Barclays unless they relate to fraud on 
her accounts. 
Following correspondence between Mrs C and Barclays in 2020, her records were amended 
so that she would be opted out of all optional messages. It said, however, that unless it 
removed her phone number (which would mean it couldnt contact her if fraud occurred on 
her accounts) she would continue to receive information via messages. It paid Mrs C £50 
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she asked our service for an independent review. Our 
investigator concluded, in summary, that Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly as it 
had done what it could to comply with Mrs Cs request and he didnt think messages 
containing information, which didnt contain her personal details or a need for a response, 
opened her to the risk of fraud. He also considered £50 compensation to be a fair amount. 
Mrs C didnt think this was a fair outcome as she felt Barclays should follow her instructions 
and not message her at all in the absence of fraud on her accounts. She also thought she 
should receive further compensation to cover her postage costs. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Text messages and unsolicited calls are well-known tools for fraudulent third parties. So, I 
can understand Mrs Cs concerns. But I think Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly. Ill 
explain why.
Following contact from Mrs C Barclays amended its records. Ive seen that she was opted 
out of marketing information via messages and calls. And Ive seen that she was opted out 
of messages relating to insufficient funds, emergency borrowing and overdraft usage. I think 
this was the appropriate thing for it to do.
Mrs C has continued to receive some messages however. These have been informational 
only, contained no personal details and required no response. For example, she received a 
message to let her know her local branch had closed early because of a leak.
I understand Mrs C doesnt want these kinds of messages either. But I dont think theyre a 
risk to her. Nor do I think they impact her privacy. In any case, Barclays has explained that 
the only way to stop Mrs C receiving them is for her phone number to be removed. But this 
would mean Mrs C couldnt be contacted if fraud occurred on her accounts, which isnt what 
she wants.
Mrs C has also said she doesnt want to receive calls from Barclays. As Ive set out above, 
shes been opted out of marketing calls and as I understand it, the only call shes received 
recently was in relation to her complaint. I dont think Barclays has called her when it 
shouldnt have.
Barclays paid Mrs C £50 in recognition of the inconvenience she was caused. Mrs C says 
her postage costs were more than this. But I dont think I can fairly ask Barclays to pay her 
postage costs given that she chose to correspond in the way she did, rather than through 
cheaper methods  such as the phone or regular post. 
Overall, I have some sympathy for Mrs C. She clearly has a strong dislike for messages from 
Barclays. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I think Barclays has dealt with her complaint 
fairly. If Mrs C wants to avoid all messages, she may want to consider moving her accounts 
elsewhere.
My final decision
I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman