DRN-4108901
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited delayed 
providing it with the information it required to obtain a Grant of Probate.
What happened
Mrs F had an annuity policy with Scottish Friendly. She passed away in 2021. Under her 
will Mr F and Mrs D were appointed as Executors of her estate. The Executors notified 
Scottish Friendly of her death in June 2021 and Scottish Friendly suspended payments 
under the policy.
Shortly after this date Mrs Fs financial adviser contacted Scottish Friendly. He says he sent 
it a copy of her death certificate and he asked it to confirm whether her future payments 
under the policy would be paid net or gross. The Executors say that despite repeated 
follow up requests, they heard nothing from Scottish Friendly.
One of the beneficiaries under the will complained to our service in January 2022. The 
Executors were subsequently joined in the complaint.
Scottish Friendly responded to the complaint in February 2022. It issued a final response 
letter dated 21 February 2022. It said that when the Executors had notified it of Mrs Fs 
death in June 2021, it had told them it required a copy of her death certificate. Scottish 
Friendly said it had not received the death certificate nor any follow up requests. It said its 
records indicated that the first online message it had received about the matter was on 4 
January 2022. It accepted it had not formally responded to this message until 8 February 
2022  but it reiterated it hadnt received the death certificate. It offered to pay the 
Executors £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience they had 
experienced as a result of this delay.
Scottish Friendly says that when it responded to the online message on 8 February it had 
explained that under the terms of the policy, no further annuity payments were due to be 
paid after the date of death. It asked the Executors to refund a payment that had been 
made after the date of death.
The Executors did not agree. They said that the proposed compensation did not adequately 
reflect the extent of the distress and inconvenience they had experienced. They also 
thought it was not appropriate for Scottish Friendly to request the return of a payment made 
after the date of death  when over six months had elapsed since the date of that payment 
and Scottish Friendly had not responded to their correspondence.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. She didnt think Scottish Friendly had done 
anything wrong when it had asked for the return of the annuity payment it had made after 
the date of death. She said it was common for a business to ask for such a payment to be 
returned.
Our investigator also thought it was normal for a business to ask for a death certificate 
when a death was notified to it. But there was evidence that the financial adviser had sent 
this to Scottish Friendly in June 2021 and ultimately Scottish Friendly had provided the 
information requested by the Executors without sight of the death certificate. She thought 
its failure to respond had unduly delayed matters. She didnt think the offer to pay £100 
adequately reflected the extent of the distress and inconvenience that had been 
experienced. She thought Scottish Friendly should increase this to £300.
Scottish Friendly did not agree. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I wish to express my condolences to the family of the late Mrs F.
I can see that after the Executors notified Scottish Friendly about the death of 
Mrs F, it took immediate action to suspend payment of any future pension under the 
pension annuity policy and subsequently asked the estate of Mrs F to refund a 
payment which had been made after the date of her death.
Ive looked at the terms of the annuity policy and I can see that it was a single life 
annuity policy which had been taken out just over a year before Mrs Fs death. The 
policy provided that she would receive an annual income, payable monthly, over a 
three year period. It also included the following provision:
The above income will cease in the event of your death..
So, having read the policy, Im satisfied that no further payments under the annuity 
policy were payable to Mrs Fs estate after the date of her death. For that reason, I 
dont think Scottish Friendly did anything wrong when it suspended future pension 
payments after it was notified of her death and subsequently asked the estate of 
Mrs F to refund a payment which had been made to her bank account after the date 
of her death.
The Executors complaint is about the delays that were experienced here. They say 
that despite repeated requests Scottish Friendly failed to provide it with the 
information it required to get a Grant of Probate issued. The information the 
Executors sought related to the value of the annuity policy and whether any monies 
were owed to the estate. I think that was a reasonable request.
Scottish Friendly says it asked the estate of Mrs F to provide a copy of Mrs Fs 
death certificate when it was notified of her death but the death certificate was not 
provided and there was no record of any follow up requests from the Executors until 
January 2022. I dont think Scottish Friendly acted unreasonably or unfairly when it 
asked for a copy of the death certificate  which it would need to record on its 
systems, as evidence of the death of its customer.I have been provided with copies of email correspondence from the late Mrs Fs 
financial adviser. Having looked at that email correspondence, I am satisfied that he 
sent a copy of Mrs Fs death certificate to Scottish Friendly by email on 24 June 
2021. Although I havent been provided with a copy of any response there appears 
to have been a response from Scottish Friendly. I say that because the financial 
adviser sent a further email to Scottish Friendly on 22 July 2021 in which he refers 
to a response to his email. He then goes on to provide details about the Executors 
bank account  which was the information Scottish Friendly had asked him for.
In his emails to Scottish Friendly, the financial adviser asked it to confirm the date 
when the pension would be paid up to and whether any future pension would be 
paid net or gross. There is no evidence that Scottish Friendly responded to these 
queries. The financial adviser did not follow up for a response until early December 
2021. He says he thought Scottish Friendly had everything it needed to progress the 
matter.
Having looked at the correspondence I am persuaded, on balance, that Scottish 
Friendly did have everything it required to respond to the queries from the financial 
adviser in June 2021. Having said that, I wouldve expected the financial adviser or 
Executors to have made follow up requests to Scottish Friendly if they were anxious 
to progress matters. But, on the basis of the information I have been provided with 
the first follow up request wasnt made until the financial adviser phoned Scottish 
Friendly in December 2021.
Scottish Friendly says it wasnt able to provide the information until it received a 
copy of the death certificate and it says it was unable to locate this when the 
financial adviser contacted it again in December. It appears to have asked him to 
send a further copy of the death certificate at that time. Its not clear if that was 
provided to it. I can see however that Scottish Friendly did provide the information 
the Executors sought in an email dated 8 February 2022. That was around seven 
months after the information had initially been requested.
Having considered everything here I am satisfied Scottish Friendly did delay 
providing the information the Executors asked it for. Scottish Friendly has 
acknowledged there was some delay on its part and has offered to pay the 
Executors £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced.
Our investigator thought that Scottish Friendly should increase the amount it offered 
to pay the Executors for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. But I 
dont think our service has power to require it to do that. Ill explain why.
The Rules which govern our service provide that we can award compensation to an 
eligible complainant where that person or persons has suffered financial loss, pain 
or suffering, damage to reputation or distress and inconvenience. The eligible 
complainant here is the estate of Mrs F. Neither the Executors nor the beneficiaries 
under the terms of the late Mrs Fs will, are eligible complainants under our Rules  
although they have the right to bring a complaint to our service on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs F. That means, I can only award compensation if the estate of Mrs F 
has suffered loss.It is the case that the delay caused by Scottish Friendly may have prevented the 
Executors from obtaining the Grant of Probate earlier. But I can see that Probate 
was granted before the end of February 2022  which was less than one year since 
the date of Mrs Fs death and within the time parameters which would be 
considered as reasonable for obtaining a Grant of Probate. So, although that does 
not excuse the delay caused by Scottish Friendly, Im not persuaded that the estate 
of Mrs F has suffered any financial or other loss as a result of what happened here.
As mentioned above Scottish Friendly has offered to pay the Executors £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of the delays it caused. I 
would expect it to honour that offer. But for the reasons set out above, I have 
provisionally decided that I cannot require it to increase that offer.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.
Scottish Friendly responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
One of the Executors also responded. He said Scottish Friendly had caused Probate to be 
delayed when it hadnt provided the information the Executors had requested. As a result, 
he said it had also caused him to waste his time and incur additional expense. He thought 
Scottish Friendly should have apologised for what happened.
No other comments were received in response to my provisional decision.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I was satisfied, on balance, that Scottish Friendly had 
delayed issuing information to the Executors. It has acknowledged that it did cause some 
delay and offered to make a payment of compensation to the Executors. But, in my 
provisional decision I also explained why, although I would expect Scottish Friendly to 
honour the offer it had already made to the Executors, I could not require it to increase that 
offer. 
Whilst I understand the Executor is disappointed, I havent received any new or further 
information that persuades me to change my view, as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Irene MartinOmbudsman