DRN-3440636
The complaint
Mr B, and Ms M, as executors, complain on behalf of the respective estates of their mother 
and father Mrs and Mr B, about the service provided by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited, referred to as the business.  
In short, Mr B says the busines misplaced his instructions to sell, leading to delays 
thereafter, resulting in financial loss to the respective estates. 
What happened
In 2019, both of Mr Bs and Ms Ms parents sadly passed away. As an executor of his 
parents estates Mr B contacted the business to let it know and instruct it to sell down their 
investments. 
The following is a brief and undisputed chronology of key events:
On 21 November 2019, Mr B sent the business notification of the deaths of his 
parents, along with copies of their death certificates. He requested a valuation of the 
investments along with the relevant estate planning application. 
On 25 November 2019, the business notified Mr B that it couldnt accept copies of 
the death certificates as proof. It asked for the originals or certified copies and said 
that the requested forms would be sent in return. It also warned Mr B that the values 
of the investments could fluctuate, until it was instructed to sell. 
On 5 December 2012, Mr B sent the original death certificates along with a covering 
letter instructing the business to sell the investments immediately, if it was possible to 
do so.   
On 19 December 2019, the business sent two letters of acknowledgement saying 
that a valuation would be provided, along with the forms to settle the accounts in due 
course, and for him to contact the business if he didnt receive them within 30 days. 
On 20 December 2019, the business returned the death certificates. 
On 13 January 2020, Mr B received the Estate Application Pack (EAP). 
On 28 February 2020, Mr B contacted the business about it not addressing his sale 
instructions from 5 December 2019. The business told him that it was unable to 
locate the letter, and that he needed to complete page four of the EAP in order to 
instruct a sale. 
Between February and March 2020, Mr B contacted the business several times to try 
and resolve the issue, but he was unable to establish whether the investments would 
be sold down as per the valuation on 5 December 2019. 
On 23 March 2020, Mr B sent a complaint letter to the CEO of the business. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 20 April 2020  mistakenly sent to Mr Bs 
parents address  the business said it couldnt find sale instructions from 5 
December 2019.  
Following correspondence on 16 June 2020, Mr B received new valuations and 
proceeded with the sale. The accounts for his mother and father settled in June and 
October 2020 respectively. 
Mr B says his parents estates have lost around £4,785 on the basis of what they received 
compared with what the valuations dated 5 December 2019 showed.  Although the 
investments recovered from potential losses of around £40,000 to £50,000, Mr B still feels 
the business is liable for the loss hes calculated. 
Mr B would also like £5,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him and Ms M 
plus another £2,000 to him, to reflect the inconvenience hes personally suffered pursuing 
this complaint.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business terms and conditions  under the heading losing a loved one  make 
clear:
oOnce the original or certified copies of the death certificate are received by 
the business, access to the accounts will be frozen, but the investment will 
still be subject to market volatility.  
oThereafter, a grant of probate will generally be required in order to sell the 
investments in the account. 
oIn some instances, its possible to instruct a sale before receiving the grant of 
probate. In order to do this, the executor must complete and return a 
Declaration and Indemnity form.  
These processes are in place to deal with estates of deceased customers and to 
protect the business and customers and to ensure that money is being paid to the 
correct recipient.   
On balance, Mr B probably sent the covering letter dated 5 December 2019 which 
the business most likely misplaced. The letters dated 19 and 20 December were 
automatically generated, so made no reference to it. 
Nevertheless, the letter dated 5 December 2019 doesnt change anything. To instruct 
a sale Mr B would need to provide grant of probate or complete the Declaration and 
Indemnity from the EAP. 
The information available on the businesss website made clear what needs to be 
done, and also made clear that notification of death wouldnt be enough.  
The business has probably confused things by saying it hadnt received the letter in 
question  which wouldnt have been a valid instruction anyway. 
Although Mr B was suffering from ill health between December and January 2020, Mr 
B didnt submit the correct form until 1 June 2020. However, the business fulfilled its 
obligations by sending Mr B the EAP in a timely manner. 
Even though Mr B felt like something was wrong, it was his decision to pursue the 
complaint, rather than completing the EAP. Mr B had the option to submit the form 
sooner following its receipt in January 2020. Despite the business confusing things, 
this didnt affect Mr Bs ability to submit the form. 
Mr B raised several issues about the way his complaint was handled  including the 
FRL being sent to his parents address and the adviser who was involved in this 
complaint being tasked investigate it. Theres no dispute these things did happen, 
and the business has offered Mr B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. However, he (the investigator) cant ask the business to pay Mr B any 
compensation because he (and Ms M) are making the complaint on behalf of the 
estates of Mrs and Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision if the 
investigator didnt change his mind. In summary, he made the following key points:The chronology of events is entirely correct, but the correspondence (including 
jargon) from the business was confusing. 
He is also a customer of the business and has held joint Power of Attorney over his 
fathers affairs for some time.
The business has put in place onerous procedures and processes. If it was a matter 
of proving his identity and authority, it should have looked at his well-established 
status with it. A letter or phone call would usually be sufficient instruction to deal with 
a matter.
He maintains the letter of 5 December 2019 provided the business with instructions, 
which is why its important to prove  beyond a reasonable doubt  that the business 
received it. In all his time an instruction didnt involve filling out a form. 
The letters of 19 and 20 December 2019 were probably standard letters. But 
paragraph three states shortly updating the account. By this he understands its 
about the deceased accountholder, however it was entirely reasonable for him to 
also think it was in relation to his instructions to sell. Paragraph four also stated 
instructions would be needed but hed already provided instructions in his letter. 
The letter dated 20 December 2019 gave some clarity, it suggested that it had 
received his letter  which he thought was the one hed written on 5 December 2019 
and posted on 6 December 2019. So, it was reasonable for him to think the matter 
had been dealt with, and all he needed was to provide the grant of probate to release 
the funds. 
Given that he and his parents have been customers of the business for many years 
he cant believe how uncaring and appalling it has been. 
Hes not going to stop until he and Ms M get back they believe they had locked-in 
and are entitled to as part of their inheritance. 
This case has prevented them from being able to commit to full time jobs.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to safely 
say that in the circumstances the business behaved in such a way that the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Bs and Ms Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the 
loss of their parents in 2019. 
Mr B and the business have provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr B and Ms M wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. Im aware of the background to this complaint. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and Ms M  on behalf of their parents 
respective estates  and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than take any sides. Im not here 
to decide if the business couldve done things differently. Im considering whether (or not) it 
made an error in respect of Mr Bs instructions to encash their parents investments. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened 
I agree with the investigators conclusion in respect of the covering letter containing 
instructions. On balance, Im satisfied  its more likely (than not)  Mr B sent the letter 
(dated 5 December 2019) along with the (original) death certificates, setting out instructions 
to sell Mrs and Mr Bs investments immediately if possible to do so.  
On balance, I think its likely that the letter was received but misplaced, and thats why it 
wasnt referred to in the businesss response to Mr B on 19 December 2019  although Im 
aware that may have been due to the fact the letter was a standard response. In any case, I 
dont think the business paid any attention to Mr Bs covering letter, only the attached death 
certificates, which it needed to officially register Mrs and Mr Bs deaths. 
But even if the letter had been acknowledged, on balance I think its unlikely that the 
business wouldve been able to carry our Mr Bs instructions as requested because it wasnt 
in the prescribed format. In the circumstances, it could be argued, in answer to Mr Bs written 
enquiry  if the investments could be sold  the answer is no. In other words, the business 
couldnt  based on his covering letter  immediately sell down their parents investments. 
So, the estates arent entitled to whatever the valuations were at the time.  
And furthermore, thats why the business said that it would send the relevant forms in due 
course, and to contact it, if the forms werent received within 30 days. In my opinion, despite 
what Mr B says, this doesnt suggest the issue was concluded and that the business was 
only waiting for the grant of probate to release the funds in due course. 
Im satisfied that the business has procedures and processes in place to deal with the 
estates of deceased customers. I agree with the investigator that its there for the protection 
of the business, and its customers, and to ensure that the money is being paid to the correct 
recipient. 
If things go wrong and funds end up in the wrong hands, the business will need to show 
what steps it took to ensure that the money was paid to the correct person, estate, or 
institution. 
I appreciate Mr B made several assumptions based on the correspondence he received from 
the business, but in the circumstances, I cant say that the business is responsible for his 
assumptions and conclusion. If there was anything he was unclear about he ought to have 
raised it with the business, rather than make assumptions. Im mindful the business never 
guaranteed that the sale would happen as per the valuations of 5 December 2019, and it 
never said that Mr Bs letter was sufficient for it to act upon.  
I note on 13 January 2020, Mr B received the EAP, that he needed to complete and return. 
Im aware that it wasnt until 28 February 2020 that he raised an issue about the business 
not addressing his initial instructions from December 2019. I note the business couldnt find 
the document, but in any case, Mr B needed to complete page four of the EAP in order to 
provide valid instructions.  In other words, based on what the business says it seems that instructions were only valid 
either by proving the grant of probate or by completing the Declaration and Indemnity form 
in the EAP. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mr B says about the businesss process, Im satisfied that its 
entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to set its own 
process. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
Despite what Mr B says, Im mindful that the business  as a financial institution  will also 
need to have consideration to money laundering regulations, data protection law and so on, 
and thats why it couldnt accept copies of the death certificates to begin with, and why it 
couldnt just verify Mr B on the basis of him being its customer and someone who has acted 
on behalf of his parents in the past. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, based on what the investigator says, Im 
satisfied that the business made reasonably clear its process and therefore it was for Mr B to 
comply in a timely manner. 
I appreciate Mr B wanted to deal with the complaint before submitting his instructions to sell, 
even though he didnt have to. It was a decision he made of his own volition therefore I cant 
say that the business is at fault for the resulting delay. I note he submitted the completed 
Declaration and Indemnity form on or around 1 June 2020. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr B and Ms M have suffered significant distress and inconvenience 
dealing with this complaint on behalf of their parents estates, I should make clear that under 
the rules governing our service, Mr B and Ms M (as the executors and representatives)  as 
well as the respective estates of Mrs and Mr B  arent entitled to any compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Im aware Mr B thinks that they are eligible and entitled to 
receive substantial compensation and that £500 offered by the business isnt enough.
I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its 
customer, not by a third party so Mr B and Ms M arent entitled to any compensation. 
Im mindful that the business has already agreed to pay Mr B £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Its a matter for the business whether it keeps to this 
agreement or not, although I would expect it to do so.
I appreciate Mr B and Ms M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant ask the business to 
pay the loss claimed and/or any compensation. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr B and Ms M what they want on behalf of their parents estates. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman