DRN-3031307
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.   
Miss Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Miss J 
about the commission it received. But in any event Halifax offered to pay back some of the 
cost of the PPI as a goodwill gesture, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In her PPI questionnaire, Miss J said she thought PPI had been sold to her online. But 
looking at the documents available from the time, I think its most likely the cover was sold 
during a face to face meeting in a Halifax branch. I cant know what was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, as Miss J doesnt seem 
to recall a meeting, Ive looked mainly at the documentary evidence from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear to Miss J that the PPI was 
optional, and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see from Miss Js 
application form that she indicated she wanted PPI cover and then signed to confirm that 
selection. I can also see that Miss J refused other financial products that were available at 
the time. All in all, I think it would have been clear to her that if she didnt want a PPI policy, 
she could have just left that part of the form blank. 
Miss J argued that Halifax included the PPI as part of a package with her credit card. It is not 
entirely clear to me how Miss J could recall that Halifax had acted in that way if she was not 
sure about the method of sale. But in any event, if PPI had been presented as part of a 
package, I think she would have queried why she had to agree to it separately. The evidence 
before me doesnt suggest she did. 
As PPI was sold in a Halifax branch, Ive treated this as an advised sale. Accordingly, Halifax 
had to check that the PPI was suitable for Miss J. To help me decide whether the policy was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about 
what Miss J told us about her personal circumstances at the point of sale. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Miss Js credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work after being made 
redundant or if she was off sick. Each claim could have been paid for up to 12 months. The 
full account balance would have usually been paid off in the unfortunate event of her death 
or if she developed a critical illness. 
I understand Miss J didnt have any contractual sick pay from her employer and she didnt 
have any other means with which to meet her card repayments if she wasnt working. So I 
can see how PPI could have been helpful for her if she couldnt work for a period of time. 
Miss J told us shed had some back trouble in 2004, and shed missed a couple of days work 
because of it. The evidence before me doesnt suggest this condition was ongoing when the 
cover was sold. But even if it was, it doesnt look as though Miss J would have expected to 
be off work for 15 continuous days  which is the waiting period for this policy. So I cant say 
her back problems rendered the policy unsuitable. 
Miss Js representative made a number of submissions about the policys limitations in 
respect of back and mental health conditions. I can see there were some additional 
evidential requirements if Miss J wanted to claim for either of these conditions. But I dont 
think Miss J would have reasonably thought shed be able to claim without providing medical 
evidence to support that claim. 
There was nothing about Miss Js employment or occupation to make it more difficult to 
make a successful claim. So looking at all of this together, I think the PPI Halifax 
recommended probably was suitable for Miss J. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Miss J enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information provided at the point of sale wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found 
that Miss J chose to take the policy out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. As I 
have set out above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable, nor was it too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought from the information provided at the point of sale. 
It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful if something 
went wrong with her work. Because of this I dont think Miss J would have declined the cover 
had Halifax given her more or better information about the policy. 
The representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, which 
it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI and theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
The representative made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss J should get back all the money that was paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Miss J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that 
because the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss J wouldnt have taken out the 
policy at all had she known about the level of commission. It is further argued a refund of all 
premiums should be paid.  
But in this case, Halifax told us that the commission for Miss Js PPI was less than half of 
what was paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this case was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAs thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy, 
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Miss J about the commission. So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship, In other words, I dont think Halifax 
treated Miss J unfairly. This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Miss J back any of the 
commission that was paid for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has paid offered to give back to Miss J some of the cost of the PPI 
to compensate Miss J as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Js complaint and so I havent 
directed any compensation to be paid in respect of that. 
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss 
J paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has offered to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss J. Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Miss J if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman