DRN-3454752
The complaint
Ms W (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility. 
What happened
Ms W approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2020. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms W was not advanced a payday loan.
 
Ms W was initially given a facility with a £200 credit limit in January 2020. Her limit was 
increased on a further four occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £440 
in November 2020. 
Ms W had some problems repaying her facility. SNC has told us payments have been made 
through a debt management plan. SNC told us that as of December 2020, Ms Ws remaining 
outstanding balance was £435.75. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ws complaint. He thought it was reasonable for SNC 
to have granted the facility. 
 
The adjudicator also concluded that due to the way Ms W used the facility through SNC 
should have stopped allowing her to continue using it from the credit limit increase that 
occurred around 21 September 2021. 
Ms Ws representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Ms W to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Ms Ws representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns in the ombudsman referral letter. He 
explained SNC had been given more than eight weeks to investigate Ms Ws complaint 
following the representatives complaint and from when we informed SNC that the complaint 
would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Ms W 
complained through her representative to SNC in December 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Ms W hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 21 May 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 1 June 
2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now nearly a year later and well over a year since the complaint was originally made, but 
the firm nonetheless disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is 
clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Ms Ws complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Ms W wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumer finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Ws expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. Therefore, when Ms Ws facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Ms 
W would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate 
check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Ws income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the year preceding the facility being granted. It 
then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Ws income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms W could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Ms W seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC 
wasnt wrong to approve her running credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont 
think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility. 
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Ms Ws facility whilst she 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Ms W to continue drawing down on the 
account from 21 September 2020.  This is because I think the way she was using the 
account indicated she wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think 
this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Ms Ws use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in or likely having 
financial difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Ms Ws actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. In 
my view, by 21 September 2020, I think SNC had seen enough to have realised that Ms Ws 
repayment of the facility were now unsustainable. 
When the credit limit was increased further on this date, SNC had seen read only bank 
statements since January 2019 and it had seen how Ms W had used and managed the 
facility since it was granted in January 2020. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Ms W to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Ms W returned for further borrowing. After all, if Ms W was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Ms W would 
typically repay her facility in full, and then within a day or so, shed draw back up to her 
available credit limit. For example, Ms W, drew down up to her credit limit on 
14 August 2020, which was the same day that SNC had taken a payment (as a result of Ms 
W being paid) to fully repay the facility. Ms W then repaid and drew down on the facility 
again on 18 August 2020. 
In addition to this, and which I mention below, Ms W was already spending significant 
amounts of her income each month servicing her existing credit commitments. But this 
pattern had been ongoing since the start of the lending relationship. 
When considering all of the information, by 21 September 2020, it was, in my view clear that 
the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding balance on 
the account and then allowing Ms W to once again borrow the funds that had been recently 
collected was detrimental to her financial situation. But instead of doing this SNC increased 
her credit limit. This meant that it would default to taking even larger payments from Ms Ws 
account thus leaving a greater hole in her finances.
So when SNC further increased Ms Ws credit limit around 21 September 2020 Ms W had 
demonstrated that she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, she was quickly 
drawing down and repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore was in effect taking 
multiple payday loans because she wasnt benefiting from or making use of the interest free 
period of time. 
Given the above, I think SNC shouldve taken steps to not allow Ms W to continue to use the 
facility. 
However, on top of the above, there was further evidence that SNC ought to have firstly not 
allowed the facility credit limit to be increased and secondly stopped Ms W from taking 
further drawdowns. 
I also think, given the credit commitments that are visible in the bank transaction data, that 
Ms W was likely having problems anyway. She had at least by August 2020 17 credit 
commitments each month, this ranged from catalogue shopping account, payments to a utility supplier, high cost long term loans, car finance and direct debits for car insurance and 
mobile phone bills to name a few. 
Overall, these commitments came to around £1,200 per month against a salary income of 
around £1,500. This only left Ms W with around £300 to repay a facility with a credit limit of 
£320 (which would likely be repaid in full each month) and cover other living costs that I can 
see in the bank transaction data that isnt accounted for above, such as payments for petrol 
and food. 
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Ms W to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 21 
September 2020.
B) Treat all payments Ms W has made towards the account since 21 September 2020 
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms W wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
come to a mutually affordable repayment plan with Ms W. 
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ws credit file 
from 21 September 2020.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman