DRN-3629961
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) provided poor service after 
unreasonably freezing their account. 
As it is Mr S that has corresponded with us, and made the calls with the bank, I will refer 
solely to Mr S for ease. 
What happened
RBS placed a block on a payment Mr S was trying to make on 19 September 2021 as a 
fraud prevention measure. Mr S is very unhappy with the subsequent calls he had with the 
fraud agent who he says was rude and ended the call. RBS accepted its service could have 
been better and paid Mr S £90 for the distress and inconvenience this caused, plus £8.10 for 
call costs. But it explained it had not acted in error when it blocked the payment as it has the 
right to do this and must pro-actively protect its customers from possible fraud.
Mr S says this caused him embarrassment and wasted his time. He wants an apology from a 
specific member of staff and more compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. He said the bank acted 
reasonably when it blocked the payment to carry out additional security checks. He had 
listened to the calls between Mr S and the bank. He could see they were at times not easy 
but felt RBS had been trying to assist. Plus, he said RBS had already apologised to Mr S 
and Mrs S and paid him £98.10 compensation which was a fair settlement.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review. Mr S said his 
request to speak to a manager was repeatedly overlooked, he was frustrated as the 
conversation was going round in circles and the adviser hung up on him which must be 
taken more seriously. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS has a responsibility to protect its customers from potential fraud. This is why it has a 
system that will stop certain transactions for additional security checks. This can be 
inconvenient but its a necessary part of banking today, it is required by the regulator and the 
terms of Mr S and Mrs Ss account allow it to make such an intervention. From Mr Ss most 
recent response to the investigators view it seem he accepts this, but remains very unhappy 
with the service on the calls he had to make as a result of the block.
I have listened to the calls. I understand the payment really mattered to Mr S and it was an 
emotional time for him. On the first call Mr S did, as he says, become frustrated by the 
number of questions and refused to visit a branch to complete the security check, instead 
repeatedly asking for a supervisor. I note Mr S felt hed cleared all the security questions on 
this call and had explained why the payment mattered so much  but it is ultimately the 
banks decision whether or not it has all the information it needs, and it did not have what it 
required for proof of payment. I find the agent remained calm and professional throughout. 
On the second call the agent explained a branch visit would provide the quickest resolution. 
Mr S said he could not do this: he was shielding as he lived with his elderly mother. The 
agent then said there were maybe other options, but they would be slower, and due to the 
previous agents decision she could not override the fact that there were still some checks 
required. After taking internal advice, she explained the only options for Mr S were to visit a 
branch or to have the payment rejected back into his account to restore his account access. 
I can see the call became difficult, and the agent terminated the call, but I find Mr S was 
responsible in part for this. I understand that the termination upset Mr S, but it is part of the 
banks protocol for such calls, and the bank has a duty of care to its employees as well as its 
account holders. 
I note two days later Mr S visited a branch and the necessary checks were completed and 
the payment was marked as no risk meaning Mr S could successfully re-present it for 
processing. On the call to fraud made from the branch the agent also explained to Mr S why 
the initial payment had flagged for further checks. Mr S said he understood perfectly and 
encouraged such checks.
Overall I find that RBSs response to Mr Ss complaint about the service it provided to be fair. 
It apologised for any distress caused, and accepted that at times the calls could have gone 
better. I find that the £90, plus £8.10 for call costs, paid is fair and reasonable. It follows I will 
not be asking RBS to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman