DRN-3832574
The complaint
Miss M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly declined her insurance claim 
for a mobile phone.
For ease, any reference to Great Lakes, includes its agents.
What happened
Miss M took out mobile phone insurance cover in June 2021. This policy was underwritten 
by Great Lakes Insurance SE.
In March 2022, Miss Ms phone was stolen and so she submitted a claim to Great Lakes. 
The claim was declined as the policy didnt provide cover for the loss or theft of the phone, 
only damage. 
Miss M complained to Great Lakes and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt agree the complaint should be upheld. He found 
that the policy terms and conditions did exclude claims for loss or theft.
Miss M remained unhappy with this outcome and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss M is also unhappy about the way the policy was sold. As has been 
explained to her by the investigator, this complaint relates only to the claims decision and 
therefore I wont be commenting on any aspect of the sales process.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint because I dont think Great Lakes 
Insurance SE has unreasonably rejected her claim. I say that because:
The policy wording includes a section titled What we will not cover and within this 
section it details the exclusions which may cause a claim not to be agreed. I can see 
that there are the following exclusions:
Loss Exclusion
We will not pay any claim for loss of the gadget under this level of cover
Theft Exclusion
We will not pay any claim for theft of the gadget under this level of cover
Miss Ms mobile phone was stolen and therefore, based on the exclusions listed 
above, Im satisfied that the claim isnt covered under the policy terms and 
conditions.
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). 
The events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes has clearly set out the 
circumstances for when it wont accept a claim within the policy terms provided to 
Miss M.
Considering everything, I dont think that Great Lakes has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Miss Ms claim in this case. So, I dont require Great Lakes 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman