DRN-3460283
The complaint
Ms T complains about gadget insurance she was sold by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Ms T has a bank account with Barclays. As an account holder, she took up an offer of 
gadget insurance through Barclays.
In April 2021, the underwriter of Ms Ts policy changed. Ms T wasnt happy with this. 
She said she hadnt been informed about the change. And it had caused some worry and/or 
inconvenience because shed been advised she had to re-register her devices. 
She thought Barclays should have arranged the switch so that the data shed provided 
previously was transferred automatically to the new underwriter.
Ms T cancelled her gadget insurance and complained to Barclays. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
They said theyd advised Ms T two months before the change that there would be a new 
underwriter. And theyd told her shed have to re-register her devices  and explained how 
she could do this.
Ms T then brought her complaint to us. After we contacted Barclays, they said there had in 
fact been some confusion in what Ms T was told about how and/or when she might have to 
give the new underwriter details about her devices. And they offered to pay Ms T £50 for her 
trouble and upset.
Our investigator thought this offer was fair and reasonable. But Ms T disagreed and asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman. She feels the £50 is insufficient compensation for 
the trouble and upset shes been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres nothing unfair or unreasonable in Barclays making a change in the way this 
insurance is provided. The move to a different underwriter made no substantive difference to 
the terms on which the cover was offered.
Although Ms T says she didnt get Barclays email about the change, theyve shown that it 
was sent. Ms T says they should have sent the letter through the mail. She says she told 
Barclays 30 years ago when she took out her account that she preferred communications 
through the post.
Barclays have shown that Ms T uses on-line services. And her recorded preference with 
Barclays is for on-line communication.
Barclays have admitted there was some confusion in their communications after Ms T made 
her complaint. Hence the offer of £50 in compensation. 
As our investigator said, that offer is more than fair and reasonable. It would be reasonable 
whether or not Ms T would have been required to provide minimal further details to the new 
underwriter at any stage.
Ms T says her trust in Barclays and the gadget insurance was destroyed by this incident and 
she was forced to cancel the policy and seek insurance elsewhere. Shes since told us that 
she hasnt in fact bought insurance from another provider.
Putting things right
Barclays have offered £50 in compensation to Ms T after we took up her complaint with 
them. Thats more than sufficient for the minimal trouble and upset Ms T has experienced 
due to the minor errors Barclays made in their communications with Ms T.
Im upholding this complaint because that offer was made after our service became involved. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Ms T £50 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman