DRN-3756714
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) were obstructive in providing a letter 
of representation to enable him to attend the AGM of Company U in May 2022. He asks 
that Barclays amend its terms and conditions and offer higher compensation to reflect the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
Mr N is the beneficial owner of shares in U, held in nominee with Barclays Smart Investor 
platform. To vote at the AGM, Mr N required a letter of representation from Barclays. 
Mr N requested the mandate on 30 March, but it was not forthcoming, and so he contacted 
Barclays again on 19 April. The letter of representation was received on 29 April and Mr N 
was able to attend the AGM, but he was dissatisfied with the service he received and raised 
a complaint with Barclays.
On 12 May 2022, Barclays issued its final response. It apologised for the delay in providing 
the information Mr N required, it said the document had in fact been sent directly to the 
Registrar to authorise Mr Ns attendance at the AGM, but it acknowledged it failed to provide 
the standard of service it would have liked.  It offered Mr N £50 for the trouble and upset the 
matter has caused.
Mr N remained dissatisfied. He felt the terms and conditions of the Investor Platform give 
him the right to request services, they do not make provision for how and when Barclays 
should respond to such requests. He feels this is inadequate provision and as the process is 
manual effectively gives room for errors such as those he has experienced and so he 
brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr N, he understood Mr Ns frustration particularly as 
Mr N had a similar experience in 2019 but he explained this service cannot direct a business 
on its procedures or process. Barclays didnt dispute the poor customer service Mr N 
experienced and had offered compensation which he felt was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr N disagreed. He doesnt feel Barclays have been able to provide any evidence that it did 
send him the documents, which it seems were lost in the post and as such cannot ascertain 
if its being economical with the truth or whether this was a simple human error. He asks for 
an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have independently reached the same outcome as the investigator. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand Mr Ns strength of feeling on this matter. I can see this would be 
compounded by his early experience of poor customer service and a repeat would further 
serve to undermine his confidence in a business that is looking after a significant 
shareholding on his behalf.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
I appreciate Mr N feels the terms and conditions do not bind Barclays to a specific service 
level agreement when it comes to providing services, but I cannot compel Barclays to 
change their policy, procedures or terms and conditions - this is the remit of the regulator, 
and this has previously been explained so I am unable to assist Mr N in this request.
In terms of the customer service Mr N received, there is no dispute here there was a 
communication failure. Barclays had informed the Registrar that Mr N was authorised to 
attend the AGM and although the letter arrived somewhat later than expected, it did arrive in 
time for Mr N to attend the AGM. So, Im persuaded the compensation offered by Barclays is 
in line with what this service would recognise as fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint.
I appreciate Mr N does not feel this reflects the trouble and upset he experienced. But the 
level of award this service makes is dependent upon the specific impact. In this 
circumstance I recognise the frustration the matter caused Mr N. But, whilst Mr N had to 
chase the letter by telephone, it did arrive in time for him to attend the AGM, and Barclays 
had also notified the Registrar despite the failure to communicate this effectively to Mr N.
Mr N has asked for the cost of transferring his significant holding to another provider. I can 
understand why he may feel that his confidence in the service has been undermined as I 
said earlier, but Barclays do not make and costs or charges for transferring shares out and 
so Mr N is perfectly at liberty to take this action should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
compensate Mr N the £50 it has offered if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman