DRN-3473546
The complaint
Mrs C complains British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) has unfairly declined a claim shes 
made on her Homecare boiler insurance policy and provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented by 
our Investigator previously, so Ive provided a summary here.
Mrs C has a Homecare insurance policy which provides cover for a number of risks 
including repairs to her boiler. Mrs C owns the risk address but doesnt live there.
The boiler stopped working and Mrs C contacted BGI to attend and repair it. Several 
engineers attended and the second of these noticed an issue with the original 
installation of the boiler and he advised it needed to be turned off. 
BGI said the boiler hadnt been firmly fixed the wall when it was originally installed. 
Mrs C said BGI should have noticed this previously while it was servicing the boiler or 
at the commencement of the policy when it undertook an inspection but it said the 
problem only became apparent while parts were being replaced in an attempt to fix 
the problem.
BGI declined the claim as it said the problem of the incorrect installation was a pre-
existing one and therefore not covered by the policy. Mrs C complained and BGI 
maintained its position but did pay Mrs C £60 compensation because of an 
appointment it failed to attend.
Our Investigator thought BGI had acted fairly in declining the claim but said it needed 
to pay more compensation as Mrs C had travelled a significant distance to be at the 
appointment that BGI failed to attend. She said it should increase the compensation 
by £100 and pay Mrs Cs petrol and accommodation costs.
BGI disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While considering this complaint, Ill take into account the terms and conditions of the policy 
and the expectations these set out. But I will also overlay what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this particular complaint.
The problems with the boiler
BGI said there was a problem with the way the boiler had originally been fixed to the wall 
and as it wasnt secure it had to be turned off. Ive not seen anything to suggest there was 
an alternative cause. Indeed, the third party who eventually resolved the issue had to fix 
timber behind the boiler to ensure it was properly secured to the wall and this seems in 
keeping with BGIs diagnosis of the problem. 
As the boiler was installed some time before the inception of the policy, I think it was fair for 
BGI to decline the claim under the pre-existing faults exclusion in the policy.
Mrs C says BGI should have noticed the problem sooner but it says it wasnt discovered 
before as it was only when parts were removed, that previously supported the boiler, the 
poor installation became apparent. Ive seen nothing which persuades me BGI should have 
discovered the problem before from its previous inspections and, even if it had, that wouldnt 
change the outcome as the problem would have still pre-existed the policy inception.
In summary, I wont be asking BGI to do anymore on this aspect of the complaint.
The missed appointment
BGI says its policy terms say its not responsible for any costs incurred as a result of 
delayed, rearranged or cancelled appointments. While I acknowledge this, Ive still gone on 
to think about whether thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says BGI rearranged appointments on a number of occasions and missed one 
completely. Its important to note here, Mrs C lives approximately 130 miles away from the 
risk address so when attendance at appointments is required, it needs some planning and 
forethought. I know BGI says she should arrange someone more local to attend 
appointments but this doesnt seem to be on the basis of any knowledge of Mrs Cs personal 
circumstances which may mean this isnt possible. 
Mrs C says BGI gives a broad appointment time from 8am to 6pm and, given the travel time 
from where she lives to the property, she had to stay over somewhere locally the night 
before the appointment.  The next day, Mrs C wasnt informed the appointment wasnt 
happening, the engineer just didnt turn up which BGI says was because of a system error. I 
understand why this would have been frustrating for Mrs C and why she feels she incurred 
unnecessary costs in travelling and staying over. 
Ill be keeping this all in mind when deciding what I think BGI should do to recognise the 
impact of its poor service on Mrs C.
Putting things right
BGI paid Mrs C £60 for the missed appointment but given everything Ive said here I dont 
think its done enough. I think, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, BGI should 
pay Mrs Cs reasonable costs incurred in travelling to and staying over in advance of, the 
appointment when the engineer just didnt turn up. 
From the file I can see Mrs C has quoted various costs. I have done my own approximate 
calculations for the cost of fuel for the journey based on petrol prices at the time, the mileage 
covered and a conservative estimate of petrol consumption (30 miles per gallon) and this 
comes to approximately £60 for the round trip. 
I have had to make a number of assumptions in this calculation so I accept it wont be 
entirely accurate. If Mrs C says her fuel costs were higher than this and she is able to 
provide evidence to substantiate this, I would expect BGI to consider this. Otherwise I think it 
should pay her a minimum of £60 towards her fuel costs.I also think BGI should pay Mrs Cs reasonable accommodation cost for the night before the 
missed appointment subject to her providing evidence to substantiate the cost (such as an 
invoice or receipt of a hotel stay).
Given the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C through the claim, BGI should also 
pay Mrs C an additional £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
Reimburse the reasonable travel and accommodation costs relating to the missed 
appointment subject to the provision of supporting evidence of costs incurred in line 
with what Ive detailed above.
Pay Mrs C an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, on top of 
what its offered/paid already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman