DRN-3071414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their car was damaged by the windscreen repair company 
authorised by UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) under their motor insurance 
policy. They also complain that this problem still hadnt been resolved after many months.
For clarity, references to UKI include their agents.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms car had a cracked windscreen. Mrs M arranged to have it replaced by UKIs 
approved windscreen repairer on 11 June 2020.
It began raining heavily whilst the technician was working. Mrs M says the inside of the car 
was soaked. She complained to UKI the following day. She told them water had entered the 
cars central console containing the satnav, radio and other extras  and that this had 
stopped working.
 
UKI sent a technician to look at the car, but he was unable to diagnose or fix the problem. 
Mrs M has told us that she complained several more times - and that each time UKI referred 
her to a car repair company they use. But every time Mrs M contacted that repair company, 
she was told they were unable to look at electrical problems.
UKI sent a written response to Mrs Ms complaint on 20 November 2020. They accepted 
fault for water ingress, because their technician shouldve used his weather canopy when 
working on the car. They asked Mrs M to take the car to a dealer to diagnose the problem 
with the electrics and provide an estimate for repairs. They said theyd be unable to accept 
they were to blame for the electrical fault until shed done this. 
Mrs M felt she shouldnt have to do this. She said shed been told it was impossible to say 
how much the repair would cost without dismantling parts of the car  and that this might 
take a few days and cost a lot of money. Shes told us that she tried to book the car in with a 
main dealer, but when she said she wanted to leave it with them and that UKI would cover 
the costs, the dealer refused. Mrs M says they dont have the money to cover the cost 
themselves.
Our investigator thought it was fair and reasonable for UKI to ask Mrs M to take the car to a 
dealer to diagnose the fault and estimate the cost of repairs. He noted UKI had agreed to 
cover the cost of the diagnostic tests - he said he couldnt ask UKI to pay this upfront 
because the cost is unknown. He said hed seen nothing to suggest UKI wouldnt settle the 
bill immediately upon completion of this work, either to the dealer or to Mr and Mrs M. And 
hed seen nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs M would be without a car for a substantial period of 
time. So he didnt think he could ask UKI to do anything more.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. She said that, if this had been a simple issue to 
fix, shed have done so a long time ago - and sent the bill to UKI.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepted they were at fault for allowing rainwater to enter Mr and Mrs Ms car. But they 
said theyre unable to accept theyre responsible for the radio and satnav not working without 
a proper diagnosis of the reason for the fault. As theyve been unable to appoint an engineer 
who could do this, they asked Mrs M to book the car in to the main dealer. Ive seen 
evidence that theyve agreed to cover the cost of this diagnostic work, so I think thats fair 
and reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs Ms concern at the possibility that the diagnostic work could take several 
days and cost a significant amount of money. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest this will 
be the case - and it wouldnt be fair for me to speculate about what may or may not happen 
in the future. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct UKI to offer anything further at this stage.
That said, I think this position couldve been reached a lot sooner. The records show Mrs M 
first made UKI aware of the water damage on 12 June 2020. They sent a technician out to 
look at the car four days later, but he was unable to deal with the problem. Mrs M was 
referred to UKIs car repair company on 23 June 2020. Two days later, she called again to 
say shed tried to book the car in twice but had been told the car repair company couldnt 
look at electrical problems. UKI made an appointment for her to take the car to their repair 
company on 7 July 2020. But the following day she called back to say theyd again told her 
they couldnt look at electrical problems. 
The records indicate UKI did continue to try to contact Mrs M to check whether the problem 
had been resolved  and that they werent able to reach her again until 22 September 2020. 
They advised her to obtain a quote for repairs and send it to them. As Mrs M wasnt happy to 
do this, she was again referred to the car repair company. The records show that, when Mrs 
M called the car repair company as requested, she was told they knew nothing about her 
car. UKI tried again to make an appointment with the car repair company on Mrs Ms behalf 
 but they said shed already brought the car in to one of their repair centres and discovered 
this wasnt something theyd be able to look into. On 6 October 2020 Mrs M was advised that 
shed need to take her car to the main dealer for diagnostic testing. 
Im satisfied that it was apparent on 25 June 2020 that UKIs car repair company were 
unable to diagnose the electrical fault. I find Mrs M had a wasted journey to their service 
centre on 7 July 2020 - and being advised to book her car in with the same company again 
at the beginning of October 2020 caused further delay, stress and inconvenience. I think UKI 
should compensate Mr and Mrs M for this.
I said I was minded to direct UKI to pay Mr and Mrs M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd been caused. I invited both parties to send me any further comments 
or information theyd like me to consider. 
UKI responded, saying they accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M made no 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or comments in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve been caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman