DRN-2969802
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited hasnt paid him an
enhanced annuity.
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension with Prudential. In 2009 he took the maximum tax-free cash
from his pension pot and bought an annuity from Prudential with the balance of the pot.
In 2010 Mr C was diagnosed with a medical condition that he believes he had at the time he
bought the annuity, but which had been misdiagnosed.
In 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr C as part of a review of its annuity sales practices. The
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), which regulates Prudential, had asked it to carry out
the review to consider whether customers such as Mr C had been made aware:
that they could receive a higher income if they had certain medical or lifestyle
conditions (known as an enhanced annuity).
that they could shop around with other providers to see if they could get a higher
annuity income.
Mr C filled in the questionnaire provided, which sought information about medical conditions
Mr C had at the time he took out the annuity, including the date of diagnosis. Among other
things, it also asked whether he smoked at that time. Mr C indicated that he smoked 15
cigarettes and 5 cigars a day. Mr C also indicated that hed chosen his annuity options
based on the information provided in the retirement pack only, rather than the retirement
pack and/or information provided during a telephone call with a Prudential agent.
In the notes section of the questionnaire Mr C indicated he wasnt aware of enhanced
annuities when reading the retirement pack or that he could shop around. He mentioned that
he was receiving treatment for a medical condition mentioned in the questionnaire that hed
been suffering from before hed taken out the annuity, but it was diagnosed afterwards. Mr C
also rang Prudential to tell it that and that he thought itd been misdiagnosed by his doctor at
the time hed taken out the annuity.
Prudential wrote to Mr C in mid-July 2019 indicating that it had reviewed the documentation
completed by Mr C at the time he took out the annuity, along with any telephone calls at the
time. It concluded he had been made aware of the options available to him before
purchasing the annuity.
In late July and early August 2019 Mr C rang Prudential a couple of times to discuss the
review. He mentioned again the situation with the health condition hed had at the time hed
taken out the annuity and he also said he wanted evidence as to why his review case was
compliant. Prudentials notes indicate it told Mr C that, as hed selected the retirement pack
option on the questionnaire, all information wouldve been included in the pack.
Prudential treated the early August call as a complaint and provided a response to Mr C by
letter dated 5 September. It didnt uphold the complaint. Among other things it said that it
was sorry to hear hed been misdiagnosed by his doctor, but Prudential was unable to
retrospectively take into account a medical condition hed been diagnosed with after he took
out the annuity, as it wasnt made aware of the condition at the time.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold it. In her
view, Mr C had been made aware of the option of an enhanced annuity at the time he took it
out. She also said hed been made aware at that time that Prudential wouldn't pay an
enhanced annuity if he was diagnosed after he took it out. Our investigator said she
understood that Mr C now knew hed had a condition which wouldve meant he qualified for
an enhanced annuity, but its not reasonable to expect Prudential to retrospectively honour
this. Prudential were guided by the answers provided to them at the time and the
ombudsman service cant hold them at fault if he was mis-diagnosed by his GP.
Mr C remained unhappy, so the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.
On 30 April 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im not going to tell Prudential to do anything further about Mr Cs annuity in relation to his 
medical condition, for much the same reasons as our investigator give. Ill explain why 
shortly.
But I do think that based on what Ive seen to date, Prudential didnt adequately inform Mr C
prior to him taking out the annuity in 2009 that a lifestyle condition such as smoking may
entitle him to an enhanced annuity. As this wasnt an issue considered by our investigator,
Im giving Mr C and Prudential a chance to comment before I make my final decision.
The medical condition
I appreciate that it is very frustrating for Mr C that he was diagnosed with a medical condition
shortly after he took out the annuity that, if it had been correctly diagnosed, most likely
wouldve meant hed receive a higher income. But I dont think it would be fair of me to make
Prudential pay an increased annuity for an error that wasnt its fault. Prudential calculate
what annuity it can offer based on the information available to it at the time and made it clear
that medical conditions diagnosed after an annuity is taken out cant result in an increase.
Mr C wants Prudential, as part of its 2019 review, to take account of his then misdiagnosed
medical condition. But this wasnt what the review was set up to address. Its review of
pension annuity sales carried out at the request of the FCA was meant to look at the
information provided to Mr C at the time he took out the annuity and assess whether he was
given enough information about enhanced annuities and his right to shop around. Prudential
did make him aware that medical conditions could lead to a higher annuity both in the Key
Facts information he was provided with and during a phone call shortly prior to him buying
his annuity. As far as Im able to tell Mr C doesnt dispute that he was aware at the time he
took out the annuity that he could do this. So Im not going to ask Prudential to do anything
further in relation to Mr Cs medical condition.
Lifestyle condition  smoking
As Ive mentioned previously, on the 2019 questionnaire Mr C indicated that at the time he
took out the annuity he smoked 15 cigarettes and 5 cigars a day. Smoking is what is known
as a lifestyle condition for enhanced annuity purposes and its possible, and in my view
probable, that Mr C wouldve qualified for an enhanced annuity on that basis.
Ive listened carefully to the telephone conversation between Mr C and Prudential that took
place on 30 September 2009, only two days before Mr C applied for the annuity. During thecall the Prudential representative said:
if you have any illnesses or lifestyle conditions that may shorten your life expectancy, we
may offer an enhancement to your income..
The representative then mentioned cancer, diabetes and high blood pressure as examples
and asked Mr C if he had anything like that. Mr C said he didnt. There was no explanation
by the representative as to what a lifestyle condition was, and smoking wasnt mentioned.
Mr Cs application for an annuity appears to be dated 2 October 2009, so mustve been
completed very shortly after receiving the quotes and other information from Prudential.
Prudential says Mr C wouldve been provided with a copy of the Key Facts for the annuity
and has provided us with a copy of it for the Income Choice annuity. Ive looked at it very
carefully, and I cant see any mention at all the possibility of receiving an enhanced annuity
for a lifestyle condition, and smoking is not mentioned anywhere. The information about
enhanced annuities on page 24 of the Key Facts refers only to medical conditions.
Taking account of this information, Im not persuaded that Prudential did enough to make Mr
C aware that smoking was a lifestyle condition that might qualify him for an enhanced
annuity. I think if Mr C had been made aware, its more likely than not that he wouldve
asked Prudential for a quote on that basis. There is no reason to think he wouldnt have,
particularly if alerted to it during the telephone call prior to sending the Key Facts and
quotes.
Subject to any comments from the parties, I propose to tell Prudential to carry out a process
designed to assess if Mr C wouldve qualified for an enhanced annuity on the basis of his
lifestyle conditions, including smoking, and if so, to put him in the position he wouldve been
in if that were the case.
My provisional decision was that Prudential should:
1. Obtain from Mr C a completed enhanced annuity questionnaire, with the questions
answered on the basis of Mr Cs smoking (and any other applicable lifestyle conditions) at
around 2 October 2009.
2. Obtain confirmation from at least three reputable enhanced annuity providers as to
whether Mr C would have qualified for an enhanced annuity in October 2009, on the basis of
that questionnaire and the value of his fund as at that date.
3. Provide Mr C with a copy of the written responses from those providers.
4. If Mr C could have qualified for an enhanced annuity, obtain confirmation of the best
enhanced annuity that would have been offered, on the same basis as the annuity currently
in force for Mr C.
5. If the enhanced annuity in (4) would have been higher than the one currently in payment,
set up an additional annuity for Mr C, on the same basis as his existing one, to provide the
difference.
6. Pay Mr C all backdated income missed between October 2009 and the date the new
annuity is set up as a lump sum, together with interest at the rate of 8% simple interest per
year on each missed amount from the date it should have been paid to the date of
settlement.
Mr C responded to my decision by expressing some doubts about Prudentials likely 
response and said he would await the outcome. 
Prudential said:
Mr Cs level of smoking wasnt enough on its own to qualify him for an enhanced annuity under Prudentials guidelines unless he had another condition.
The Key Features Document for the income choice annuity which Mr C wouldve 
received at the point of sale as part of the Prudentials Retirement Pack referred to 
smoking. Since Mr C said in his response to the annuity sales review that hed only 
relied on the Retirement Pack, the sale of the annuity to him had been compliant. If 
Mr C say he also relied on the telephone call to make his decision Prudential is 
happy to review his case again.
If Mr C relied on the calls, he would be due a 6.35% uplift to his annuity and 
Prudential will pay the arrears plus 8% interest.
Prudential also said it had concerns with my proposed redress as:
The type of annuity Mr C selected, the income choice annuity, is only provided by 
Prudential. Because of this, as part of the annuity sales review the FCA agreed with 
Prudential that it couldnt be compared with standard annuities on the open market. 
Therefore, it was also agreed with the FCA that Prudential would only have to look at 
what a customer wouldve received under an enhanced annuity provided by 
Prudential.
It cant obtain the information from other businesses that I asked it to.
On 19 July 2021 I issued a second provisional decision. My findings were as follows:
I still propose to uphold Mr Cs complaint, but with compensation assessed in a different 
way. Ill explain why.
Neither Mr C nor Prudential have commented on that part of my first provisional decision that 
dealt with Mr Cs health condition, so I see no reason to change that part of my findings. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Prudential has had to say in response to my 
provisional decision. I think it is more likely than not that Mr C mustve relied on the 
information given in his phone call with Prudential to reach his annuity decision. I say this 
because the options sent to Mr C were narrowed down during the call. And the call took 
place only a couple of days before Mr C completed the paperwork for the annuity. For this 
reason alone I find Mr C did rely on the call. 
I also note that neither of the Key Features Documents for the income choice annuity 
provided to our service refer to smoking, although Prudential have said that it did. It may be 
that the version of the document provided to Mr C did contain such a reference. But since 
Prudential hasnt provided me with a copy that does, Im not persuaded that it did. And even 
if it did, Im satisfied that Mr C also relied on the phone call. 
Given my findings, Im persuaded that Mr C wasnt given the information he needed to 
consider whether he should apply for an enhanced annuity. Im also persuaded that if he had 
been given such information he would have done so. 
What I need to consider, in light of Prudentials comments on my proposed redress, is what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
Im persuaded that it isnt possible for Prudential to obtain quotes from other companies 
given the unique nature of its annuity product that Mr C has had the benefit of. Ive no 
reason to disbelieve it when it says that the FCA agreed that it could do a comparison based 
on what a customer wouldve received from an enhanced annuity provided by Prudential. In this context I consider the proposal from Prudential is fair. It has said that Mr C would be 
entitled to an uplift in his annuity level of 6.35% and it would pay arrears with 8% interest. I 
note that in its comments on my decision, Prudential suggests that Mr Cs level of smoking 
isnt sufficient on its own to qualify for an enhanced annuity. But since Mr C did have another 
medical condition at the time he took out the annuity, and since it has been prepared to 
make Mr C an offer if he did rely on the call, I think it fair that I tell Prudential to pay Mr C the 
increase in his annuity and the compensation that it has proposed.
I also propose to tell Prudential to pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience and 
distress caused to him by not receiving sufficient information and receiving less annuity that 
he shouldve. 
My second provisional decision was that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
should:
1. Increase the amount of annuity income Mr C is entitled to going forward by 6.35%, 
either by increasing his existing annuity or setting up an additional annuity on the 
same basis as his existing one, to provide the difference.
2. Pay Mr C all backdated income missed between October 2009 and the date the new 
annuity is set up as a lump sum, together with interest at the rate of 8% simple 
interest per year on each missed amount from the date it should have been paid to 
the date of settlement. If Prudential considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
3. Pay Mr C £200 for his distress and inconvenience. 
In response to my second provisional decision Mr C said he awaited the final decision and 
Prudential said it had no further information to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comments on my second provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should:
1. Increase the amount of annuity income Mr C is entitled to going forward by 6.35%, 
either by increasing his existing annuity or setting up an additional annuity on the 
same basis as his existing one, to provide the difference.
2. Pay Mr C all backdated income missed between October 2009 and the date the new 
annuity is set up as a lump sum, together with interest at the rate of 8% simple 
interest per year on each missed amount from the date it should have been paid to 
the date of settlement. If Prudential considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
3. Pay Mr C £200 for his distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman