DRN-3152294
The complaint
Mr A has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to switch his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). 
He believes that the advice was unsuitable and he shouldve been advised to stay in his 
existing pension arrangement
What happened
Mr A was cold called an unregulated introducer and asked about his pension. He says he 
was told his pension could gain much higher growth if he transferred it. Mr A agreed to 
discuss his pension options and was put in touch with Portafina.
At the time, he held a pension with Scottish Life with a transfer value of £28,591.00.
A financial questionnaire was completed which showed Mr A:
Was 37 at the time of advice and intended to retire at age 65.
Was married with two young children and was employed, earning approximately 
£44,500.00 per year.
Had a defined contribution pension with his employer which both he and his 
employer were contributing to.
He had no savings or investments
Attitude to risk (ATR) was classed as an adventurous investor.
Portafina completed a pension switch suitability report, dated 2 April 2013. Within the
suitability report there were some risk warnings around unregulated investments. And it
highlighted the various charges including the adviser charges, Transact SIPP charges of
0.2%, initial commission along with annual charges of 0.5% plus £80.00 per year.
Portafina recommended the switch to the Transact SIPP and recommended the funds were
invested mainly in Unregulated Collective Investments (UCIS).
The Scottish Life funds were transferred to the Transact SIPP on 13 May 2013. Over the
next few weeks the fund was invested in the following holdings:
 £11,000  Raithwaites Hypa Fund
 £4,972  Kudos Asia Investments Ltd Fund
 £6,377  Venture Oil International
 £2,115  EOS Solar Investment
In February 2019 Mr A complained to Portafina that the switch to a SIPP was unsuitable and 
the investment exposed him to significant risks which he wasnt made aware of.
Portafina rejected Mr As complaint, explaining why the recommendation to switch was 
appropriate for him and that the investments were suitable and in line with his attitude to risk. 
It said it had listed all of the relevant risk warnings at the time.
Portafina offered to safeguard Mr As income. It said if the issues with interest payments 
from the SIPP hadnt been resolved by Mr As state retirement age, it would pay his income 
instead of it coming from the SIPP. Portafina said the income value would be based on the 
original expectations of fund performance and current annuity rates until the fund issues had 
been resolved when he could resume the income from the SIPP. It said Mr A wouldnt need 
to reimburse Portafina for this at any future date.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this offer and referred his complaint to our service for review.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think the recommendation to 
switch the pension to a SIPP and invest in the recommended funds was suitable. In 
summary, the reasons for the investigator reaching this conclusion were:
In terms of the switch 
From what the investigator could see the objective was to switch Mr As personal 
pension to a SIPP in order to invest in UCIS. In 2008, the regulator issued a report 
entitled quality of advice on pension switching. The report provided examples of 
poor, compliant and good, examples of advice given since pensions A-day. Some 
examples below note what it thought would constitute unsuitable advice:
A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have fulfilled the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was the 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there is no evidence this option was needed)
Mr As previous pension plan had an annual charge of 0.67% per year, but the 
recommendation to switch the pension and use a Transact SIPP resulted in a more 
expensive pension plan. There was an initial transfer fee of 5% charged by Portafina 
and 0.2% by Transact, an ongoing adviser charge of 1%, annual SIPP charge of 
0.5% + £80.00 per year. The overall costs quoted to Mr A didnt include any 
underlying investment charges. Combined, these charges were significantly higher 
than his ceding plan.
The investigator thought the reasons given for the switch didnt justify incurring such 
significant initial charges and more expensive on-going charges.
In terms of attitude to risk
The financial questionnaire determined Mr A as an adventurous investor - meaning 
he had a high level of financial knowledge and was aware of different aspects of 
financial issues. This was despite him having no other investments and his Scottish 
Life plan had been invested in a Cautious Portfolio. Mr A was recorded as wanting 
growth and stability, which the investigator didnt recognise as being classed as an 
adventurous investor. From the information provided, he didnt believe that his ATR 
was correctly captured or fairly reflected his requirements.
In terms of the investments Portafina had recommended
When considering unregulated investments, the regulators good and poor practice report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice. This was the practice of 
restricting such unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. Portafina was aware that the vast majority of Mr As pension 
fund would be invested into UCIS funds. In fact, it recommended he invest 87.5% of 
his overall fund into UCIS funds, with the remainder as cash. The regulator stated 
such unregulated investments may be suitable for a very select group of individuals, 
for example, certified high net worth investors or even sophisticated investors. 
However, the maximum recommendation would not exceed 3% to 5% of their 
portfolio.
Overall, unregulated investments should not be promoted to the general public in the 
UK. So, they shouldnt be recommended to anyone other than the exemptions noted 
above. Its not enough to include risk warnings in the recommendation and in doing 
so, this does not mean that the advice becomes suitable in the circumstances. The 
pension switch suitability report issued, even confirms that these types of 
investments are restricted, and Mr A didnt meet the requirements as set out by 
Section 328 of the Financial Services & Markets Act (FSMA) 2000.
Portafina said it had taken reasonable steps to ensure the UCIS recommended was 
suitable following a full know your customer and ATR assessment. But it was the 
investigators view that the risk questionnaire demonstrated Mr A was not an 
adventurous investor and there is nothing to show he was in any way an experienced 
investor. There was nothing to indicate Mr A wanted or needed a SIPP other than to 
accommodate the unregulated investments.
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina needed to do to 
put things right. The redress was originally to be based on a comparator benchmark 
modelled up to the date of settlement. Portafina argued that, as Mr A had changed to a new 
financial manager in 20 April 2016, the comparator should be capped at that point. It also 
believed the performance of the ceding scheme should be used as the basis for the 
comparator.
The investigator agreed that the comparator should be run to April 2016, but the benchmark 
was unchanged and the ceding scheme wouldnt be used.  As the UCIS funds were likely to 
be illiquid he set out what should be done at the end date by assuming a nil valuation to 
arrive at fair compensation and how the loss figure should be brought up to date.
Both Mr A and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings. 
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it didnt agree with the redress methodology proposed by the investigator. As Mr A hadnt 
received a settlement, he also requested that the matter be reopened. 
As both parties have requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to do so on
this occasion. The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr A but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for
the same reasons. So Im upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments 
Portafina recommended for Mr A were unsuitable. No further points or arguments were 
received in response to the investigators findings about the suitability of the 
recommendation and Portafina have only queried the way Mr A should be redressed. 
The investigator provided a full explanation of his finding, which I agree with so I see little 
benefit to repeating the reasoning here, when no further arguments have been
received to dispute what the investigator has said. Ive only summarised the main reasons 
for reaching this decision, those being:
Mr A didnt have the capacity for loss or appetite for risk that came with an 
adventurous attitude to risk; it wouldve been more appropriate for him to have been 
assessed as having a low/cautious attitude to risk
The investments Portafina recommended were unsuitable. All of Mr As portfolio was 
invested in UCIS, when it was considered by the regulator that even a high risk 
investor should limit investment in UCIS to between 3% and 5% of the overall 
portfolio. So for a low or even moderate risk investor, these funds were completely 
unsuitable. 
Portafina has argued any redress should be modelled on a comparator using the 
performance of the Scottish Life fund Mr A switched out of as the benchmark. It also didnt 
agree with the investigators instruction to bring any loss identified on 20 April 2016 up to 
date using the same benchmark. It didnt specify how or if any loss should be brought up to 
date, for instance if interest should be added.
I believe the methodology set out by the investigator in his updated view on 18 August 2020 
is correct and Portafina should redress Mr A in line with this, as was previously agreed.Benchmark
The recommendation to switch Mr As existing personal pension into a SIPP and invest in 
UCIS was unsuitable, but this doesnt mean the consumer wasnt able to make any changes 
to his pension planning at all. Mr A clearly wanted to review his plans and although he was 
already invested in cautious or low risk funds, Im satisfied he could have invested in other 
lower risk funds, which would have required some change to his pension. As such, I dont 
believe he would have remained in the same fund and his ceding scheme shouldnt be used 
as the benchmark. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would have done instead, but Im 
satisfied the benchmark the investigator set out was fair and reasonable.
End date
Mr A signed an agreement with a new adviser on 20 April 2016 and Portafina believe it 
shouldnt be held responsible for any losses after the new adviser managed the SIPP. I dont 
agree with this position as it ignores the fact that all four UCIS funds were illiquid by 2016 
and, as they couldnt be disposed of, the new adviser had no control over them. The SIPP 
statement we have been provided with shows the EOS Solar Investment was liquidated on 
30 June 2017 with a zero balance and based on my experience of other cases where 
consumers have invested in the same funds, it wouldnt have been possible to achieve a 
resale value for any of the plans once they were in effect.
As the new adviser wasnt able to do anything about Mr As existing UCIS investments, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold them responsible for their performance and the redress 
methodology should take account of this. The best way to do this is to assume the value of 
the investments to be nil on 20 April 2016 to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should 
take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider, which can be deducted from the compensation.
Mr A hasnt been able to exit his UCIS funds and invest elsewhere, because they are illiquid. 
He has missed out on the opportunity of investing in other funds and should be 
compensated for this by bringing the loss figure on 20 April 2016 up to date by comparing it 
with the performance using the same benchmark  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr A £250 for for the trouble and upset experienced.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decisionNot applicable
The loss identified up to 20 April 2016 needs be brought up to date using the same
benchmark. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr A provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean that Mr A would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr A in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Adrian Eyton
Ombudsman