DRN-1852710
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc dealt with a claim against his musical 
insurance policy for a stolen guitar. 
References to Allianz include its agents. 
What happened
Mr S told us he uses his musical instruments as part of his self-employment work, which 
includes rental and lessons.
In August 2018, Mr S said he was on his way to meet a potential client when he was 
approached by two unknown individuals who stole items off his person. Those items 
included two guitars, a mobile phone, bag and wallet. 
One of the guitars stolen was insured with Allianz, so after reporting the incident to the 
police, he contacted Allianz to report a theft claim. Allianz sent Mr S a claims form, which he 
returned roughly two weeks later.  
They then discussed the claim in October 2018, and it was established that further 
information was required. This couldnt be provided until December 2018, due to 
circumstances outside of Mr Ss control. 
In December 2018 Mr S did provide, amongst other things, a photo of the guitar, proof of 
purchase, images of the location of where the theft took place and contact details of the 
people he was due to meet that day. 
Allianz contacted Mr S in January 2019 to request further information to validate the claim. 
Mr S returned this in February 2019. Allianz then told Mr S it needed the police report to 
validate the information hed provided. So, it sent Mr S a consent form so it could request the 
report. 
There were some issues with Mr S receiving the consent form as he was out of the country. 
And once this was returned, further delays occurred due to the police website not being 
updated. The police report was finally received in July 2019 at which point Allianz accepted 
the claim.   
Mr S complained to Allianz about the delays. Allianz accepted it couldve been handled 
quicker and offered to pay Mr S £250 compensation. It also told Mr S it had enough 
information in February 2019 and couldve accepted the claim then, without the police report. 
Mr S didnt think its offer was fair and reasonable. He said Allianz caused over six months of 
delays and failed to be transparent and professional. He thinks Allianz should increase its 
offer and so he brought the matter to our service to consider.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ss case. He felt Allianz couldve handled things better, 
but he didnt think it was fair to hold it responsible for all the delays Mr S experienced.
He queried whether Allianz needed the police report in order to progress the claim, which it 
said it did. Our investigator felt it was reasonable for Allianz to request the police report as 
part of the claim handling. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said hed lost out financially because he used his guitar as 
a source of income and wanted Allianz to compensate him further. But our investigator didnt 
consider this and said Mr S needed to raise this with Allianz first. Mr S raised several other 
points that our investigator felt had already been addressed, and so his opinion on the 
matter remained the same. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how important this matter is to Mr S. But overall, I think Allianzs offer of £250 
compensation to put matters right is fair and reasonable. Ill now explain why. 
But before I do, I must say that Ive not considered Mr Ss loss of earnings as part of this 
complaint. This is because Mr S raised this to our investigator after hed brought the 
complaint to our service about delays. Mr S would need to raise this with Allianz first for it to 
consider. 
Delays 
I accept Allianz caused some delays here. For example, its appointed third party took over a 
month to get in touch with Mr S, and Allianz asked Mr S to provided further information in 
January 2019, which I can see it already had. It also accepted miscommunication on its part 
resulted in further delays. It offered Mr S £250 to put matters right. 
But to give some balance to this dispute, its fair to say some delays werent caused by 
Allianz. For example, I can see there were lengthy gaps between it requesting information, 
and Mr S returning it throughout the claim. Mr S said some of these delays, particularly 
between October and December 2018, were outside his control. 
So, whilst I accept there were delays caused by Allianz, it wasnt responsible for all of them. 
A lengthy delay occurred between Allianz telling Mr S it needed the police report, to 
retrieving it and accepting the claim. I accept Mr Ss frustration here as he was told it 
couldve accepted the claim in February 2019 without the police report. So Ive gone onto 
consider this part of the complaint. 
Allianz requested the police report
Our investigator asked whether Allianz relied on the police report to accept the claim. It told 
us it did. I appreciate Mr S was later told otherwise and have no doubt that wouldve been 
very frustrating to hear. But Allianz has told us it needed the report, so I think it was a 
mistake for it to tell Mr S it didnt. The policy allows for the report to be requested, Im 
satisfied this was done as part of the normal claim handling and therefore didnt cause any 
unnecessary delay. I can see some issues occurred with Mr S returning the consent form. This appears to be 
mainly due to the fact he was out of the country at the time. I can see Allianz made attempts 
to send the form to two different addresses. Once this was received back, Allianz then found 
an error on the police website which caused delays. Once this issue was resolved, it 
received a copy of the police report in July 2019. 
Mr S said Allianz shouldve requested the police report much sooner than it did. I do take his 
point here, but a police report isnt always needed unless the information presented by a 
policyholder needs further validation. So, as above, I dont think Allianz made an error here 
or acted unfairly by requesting it  as ultimately the claim was accepted following that.
Handling of the claim
Mr S said he felt Allianz harassed him due to the amount of information it asked him for 
during the claim. He also said it acted unprofessionally. Ive given this a lot of thought, and I 
accept there was a lot of communication between them whilst Allianz gathered information to 
progress the claim. But I dont think any of the information Allianz requested was 
unreasonable here given the circumstances. 
I agree Allianz couldve handled things better, including the call in October 2018 where it 
misunderstood the information Mr S provided. I think this was an error on Allianzs part which 
its accepted, rather than unprofessionalism. And in any event, I think it fairly compensated 
Mr S in this case by offering £250 compensation. 
Summary 
Ive summarised where I think Allianz couldve been handled things better, and the delays I 
dont think itd be fair to hold it responsible for. 
Overall, I think Allianz has done enough to put matters right by offering £250 compensation. I 
think this amount is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr S rejected this offer as he felt Allianz should increase it significantly. But I dont think it 
should given the reasons Ive set out above. So, in order to put matters right, I require Allianz 
to pay Mr S £250 compensation. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr 
S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman