DRN-4500282
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a life insurance policy in 
2010.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand that Mr D didnt realise that the term of the policy he was purchasing 
was 20 years and he feels that it has been a waste of money as it didnt cover him for 
life. Barclays had a duty to present the information to Mr D in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so Ive looked carefully at the documentation available from the time 
to see if it did so. 
I havent disregarded the submissions now made about Mr Ds reading and writing 
ability. However, I can see that he signed the declaration at the time of sale 
confirming that policys key features, alongside exclusions and limitations of the 
policy had been explained to him.
Additionally the product provider sent details of the policy which clearly shows that 
the plan was for 20 years with a benefit of £15,000. Mr D was also sent a 
cancellation form, so that if he didnt want the policy or changed his mind, he had 30 
days to cancel it.
I understand that Mr D feels that a policy with a term of 20 years was of no use to 
him, but in the circumstances, I dont find that Barclays mis-sold or mis-advised him. 
This wasnt an advised sale and the documentation is clear. Although I appreciate 
that there was a face-to-face meeting, I am not persuaded that Mr D would have 
been told that the policy was for life when all the documentation clearly showed it 
was for a term of 20 years. Mr D has said he was told that his family would be 
covered, but this was not untrue. They would have been covered for the term of the 
plan.
I recognise that Mr D will be very disappointed by my decision and Im sorry it doesnt 
bring Mr D more welcome news. But as I dont find that Barclays did anything wrong, 
there is no basis for me to require it to refund the premiums paid. Barclays has been 
(and I understand still is) on risk and in the event of a claim the benefit would be 
payable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman