DRN-4447454
The complaint
Mr A complains that 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money (247Money) 
irresponsibly mis-sold him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford.
Mr A is represented in this complaint by a claims management company but, for ease, Ill 
refer to Mr A directly throughout my decision.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr A acquired a used car financed through an agreement with 247Money. 
The cash price of the car was around £3,900 and while Ive not seen a copy of the credit 
agreement, a telephone recording Ive listened to between Mr A and 247Money confirmed 
the agreement required him to make 54 monthly repayments of £151.58.
Mr A met his contractual repayments without concern until July 2022 before falling into 
financial difficulties. In September 2022, Mr A agreed a temporary arrangement to clear his 
arrears but failed to maintain repayments and in April 2023, 247Money say Mr A advised 
them he was unable to maintain the agreement. In May 2023, 247Money terminated Mr As 
agreement, before disposing of the car in June 2023 to reduce the debt he owed.
Mr A then complained to 247Money that their decision to lend to him had been both 
irresponsible and unaffordable. He said his credit history showed hed defaulted on active or 
recently settled accounts. Hed also had several accounts passed to debt recovery 
companies at the time of the application and had missed payments or been late repaying his 
debts multiple times in the three months prior. Mr A said if 247Money had conducted 
appropriate checks they would have seen there was clear evidence he was entering a cycle 
of borrowing.
247Money didnt think theyd done anything wrong and said they were satisfied the finance 
approved was affordable. They said at the point of the application thorough checks were 
completed to determine if Mr A met their lending criteria and his maximum affordable 
monthly contractual payment was calculated to be £284.45, compared to his actual monthly 
contractual payments which were £151.58.
247Money said the affordability checks completed considered his active credit commitments 
visible on his credit report, along with statistical data to determine household expenditure 
based on houses similar in size, occupancy, and locality as Mr As. They also said Mr A had 
provided two monthly payslips from which they used the year-to-date figure to confirm his 
annual income matched the income Mr A stated within his application. And 247Money said 
theyd reviewed a bank statement provided by Mr A to further confirm his salary being paid 
into his account and to understand how he managed his finances.
Finally, 247Money said prior to authorising pay-out of the funds, an underwriter completed a 
validation call on which Mr A confirmed there were no negative foreseeable changes in his 
circumstances that would affect affordability and that hed been awarded a 5% pay increase.
Because Mr A remained unhappy, he asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and said whilst she thought 247Money had completed 
proportionate checks, based on what they saw - gambling transactions and payments to a 
debt management company - she didnt think theyd made a fair lending decision when 
approving the agreement for Mr A.
To put things right our Investigator said 247Money should end Mr As agreement with 
nothing further to pay and ownership of the car should be transferred to him. 
Our Investigator said the maximum amount 247Money could ask Mr A to repay was the cash 
price of the car, and if hed paid anything over that amount, 247Money should refund Mr A 
adding 8% simple interest as compensation. Finally, she said if Mr A owed any arrears after 
the settlement had been calculated, 247Money should arrange an affordable repayment plan 
for Mr A and remove any adverse data regarding the original agreement from his credit file.
247Money disagreed with our Investigators opinion saying theyd noted the transactions in 
question at the time of the application, but they were not deemed excessive or a cause of 
concern regarding Mr As affordability.
247Money said Mr As net gambling spend after deducting the income he received from 
gambling companies was less than 3% of his income and they didnt consider the amounts 
or regularity of the transactions to be indicative of an excessive or compulsive gambling 
habit. 247Money said a change in Mr As circumstances after the agreement was approved 
was the root cause of his affordability issues and having considered the repayments he was 
making to debt management companies, his debt-to-income ratio satisfied them he wasnt 
over exposed and that the loan was affordable.
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and 247Money my provisional decision on 11 October 2023. I explained why, 
while I was planning to reach the same outcome to that of our investigator, I intended to ask 
247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money to do something different to put things right. 
I said:
How we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is explained on our 
website. Its this approach Ive used when deciding Mr As complaint. 247Money needed to 
ensure they didnt lend irresponsibly which in practice, means they needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable and 
sustainable for him before agreeing to provide the finance.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the FCAs consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC). Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant here, as  among other things  it 
talks about the need for businesses like 247Money to complete reasonable and 
proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to lend someone money. 
Ive considered these rules by asking the following questions:
1) Did 247Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
Mr A would be able to meet the repayments of the borrowing without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If they did, was their decision to lend to Mr A fair?If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2) Did AFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 247Money complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate in terms of the checks a business 
undertakes will vary dependant on the details of the borrowing and the consumers specific 
circumstances at the time. 
Here, the total amount repayable under the agreement was around £8,200, with monthly 
repayments of £151.58 over a 54-month term. The interest rate confirmed by 247Money in 
their final response letter was 44.90%. This was therefore a relatively significant and lengthy 
credit commitment for someone to enter into, so my starting point is that Id expect to see 
247Money to have completed a thorough affordability check.
247Money say they reviewed Mr As credit profile to gain an understanding of his previous 
and current credit history. While Ive not seen a copy of the report, 247Money have provided 
me a summary of Mr As active credit commitments they saw at the time of the application.
I can see 247Money verified Mr As income using the information contained on two payslips 
as well as sighting his salary being credited to his bank account via a bank statement. It 
seems Mr A had provided an accurate estimate of his income when completing the 
application, so I think 247Money did enough to satisfy themselves what income Mr A was 
receiving.
247Money says it used statistical data to estimate Mr As non-discretionary expenditure and 
they also had sight of one month of Mr As bank transactions. Im aware the regulator is of 
the view a business may consider statistical data in certain circumstances, unless it knows 
or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than described in the data. Ive kept this in mind when deciding if 
247Money made a fair lending decision.
From the information they gathered through a credit check, verification of Mr As salary and 
sight of his bank statement, 247Money said he met their lending criteria and the monthly 
contractual amount agreed was below the maximum amount theyd calculated as affordable.
Overall, I think 247Money completed reasonable and proportionate checks when thinking 
about the amount of information and supporting evidence they gathered to assess Mr As 
creditworthiness. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether I think they made a fair lending 
decision when approving the credit agreement for Mr A.
Did 247Money make a fair lending decision?
While I think 247Money gathered enough information about Mr As circumstances at the time 
of the application, I interpret the information they saw differently. I dont agree the 
information considered by 247Money showed the that agreeing to lend to Mr A was either 
affordable and sustainable or responsible.
247Money say they noticed the gambling transactions Mr A was conducting but they did not 
deem them excessive, nor did they cause any concern over his affordability of the 
agreement. They add the transactions totalled a net spend of £23.79 and accounted for less 
than 3% of Mr As monthly income. I disagree the transactions werent cause for concern.In the 31-day period reviewed by 247Money, Mr A conducted 50 separate gambling 
transactions totalling £278.90 which accounted for approximately 25% of his monthly 
income. Im aware 247Money considered Mr As net spend deducting any incoming 
payments from the amounts spent but I dont agree this should be the case. Any winnings Mr 
A might have received werent guaranteed and Im satisfied the sheer level of transactions 
conducted in a short period of time ought to have given 247Money cause for concern that 
approving the lending for Mr A wasnt responsible, nor would it be sustainably affordable 
over the full term.
247Money completed a validation call with Mr A on which they asked him if he foresaw any 
future changes which would affect his ability to afford the agreement. No questions were 
asked of him regarding the high level of gambling transactions 247Money had seen on his 
bank statement so I can understand why Mr A didnt mention his gambling as a possible 
issue. I cant tell what he would have said if hed been asked. But given the nature of some 
gambling problems, I feel a more evidence-based review  rather than relaying on spoken 
assurances  would have been needed in any case. 
Further, 247Money took note of the payments into Mr As account from gambling companies, 
however the credits included payments from at least one gambling company no outgoing 
payments had been made to. This suggests that the extent of Mr As gambling reached 
beyond the one month of transactions 247Money had seen for his account.
And by 247Moneys own observation they note the bank statement reviewed showed Mr A 
had a marginally higher income in comparison to his outgoings, despite the presence of 
gambling transactions. But Mr As bank statement didnt show anywhere near the level of 
non-discretional expenditure they say was considered as his likely outgoings using statistical 
data when deciding affordability.
247Money say they noted five payments to debt management companies on Mr As monthly 
bank statement but that this was to be expected due to the previous defaults shown on his 
credit history. They also say these defaults were at least six months prior to his application 
for finance with them.
Mr A was also paying a sixth payment towards debt management by way of repaying an 
overpayment previously received. But in any case, Im satisfied the payments 247Money did 
note made clear Mr As struggles with financial difficulty. And when considering that in 
addition to their awareness of Mr As gambling transactions, this ought to have demonstrated 
to them it was irresponsible to grant the loan to Mr A and he would struggle to maintain the 
repayments sustainably throughout the full term of the loan.
In summary, 247Money needed to ensure Mr A could afford to sustainably repay the 
borrowing without causing him financial difficulty and that their decision to lend to him was 
responsible. I think they gathered sufficient information throughout the application process to 
realise Mr A wasnt in a position to sustainably repay this agreement, nor was it responsible 
to grant him the lending.
Given all of the above I dont think 247Money gave appropriate consideration to the 
information it had gathered regarding Mr As financial circumstances, and I dont think they 
made a fair lending decision by approving the agreement they did.
Putting things right
Previously our Investigator said 247Money should end the agreement with nothing further to 
pay and ownership of the car should transfer to Mr A. But the agreement was already 
terminated in May 2023 and the agreement statement shows the asset, in this case the car, being disposed of shortly after to reduce the debt owed. So I think 247Money need to do 
something different to put things right.
As I dont think 247Money shouldve lent to Mr A, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
them to now refund everything he has paid towards the agreement, minus a deduction for 
any fair usage of the car from the time he had it until his agreement was terminated. I say 
when the agreement was terminated because 247Money had a responsibility to act promptly 
to retrieve the car after bringing the agreement to an end so he shouldnt be penalised for 
any time after termination. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, the 
likely use Mr A had of the car and what reasonable costs he mightve incurred to stay mobile 
had he never entered into this agreement.
Having done so, I think an amount of £75 per month for each month Mr A had use of the car 
until his agreement was terminated is fair and reasonable. Mr A had use of the car for 15 
months before his agreement was terminated so I think the amount 247Money can retain in 
total is £1,125.
Anything Mr A paid in excess of £1,125 should be treated as an overpayment and be 
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Lastly, as Mr A should not have been allowed to enter into the finance agreement, it isnt fair 
for 247Money to record any adverse information in relation to it against his credit file. They 
should arrange for any adverse information to be removed.
Mr A confirmed he had no further comments or evidence for consideration. 247Money didnt 
respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider following my provisional 
decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached previously. 
For the reasons set out above in my provisional decision, I dont consider that Zurich needs 
to do anything to put things right.
Putting things right
As I dont think 247Money shouldve lent to Mr A, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
them to now refund everything he has paid towards the agreement, minus a deduction for 
any fair usage of the car from the time he had it until his agreement was terminated. I say 
when the agreement was terminated because 247Money had a responsibility to act promptly 
to retrieve the car after bringing the agreement to an end so he shouldnt be penalised for 
any time after termination. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, the 
likely use Mr A had of the car and what reasonable costs he mightve incurred to stay mobile 
had he never entered into this agreement.Having done so, I think an amount of £75 per month for each month Mr A had use of the car 
until his agreement was terminated is fair and reasonable. Mr A had use of the car for 15 
months before his agreement was terminated so I think the amount 247Money can retain in 
total is £1,125.
Anything Mr A paid in excess of £1,125 should be treated as an overpayment and be 
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Lastly, as Mr A should not have been allowed to enter into the finance agreement, it isnt fair 
for 247Money to record any adverse information in relation to it against his credit file. They 
should arrange for any adverse information to be removed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr As complaint. 247 Money Group Limited 
trading as 247Money should do as Ive set out above. 
If 247Money Group Limited trading as 247Money considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr A, they should tell 
him how much theyve taken off.
They should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman