DRN-4339502
The complaint
Mr L complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) didnt do enough to prevent the loss 
he suffered when he sent money to one of their accounts as the result of a scam.
Mr L has used a representative to bring his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to Mr L himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. In August and September 2020 Mr L made 
two payments to an account held with Co-op. The first was for £1,000 and the second for 
£74,000. Both payments came from Mr Ls own bank which is based outside the UK. At the 
time he believed these payments to be towards a legitimate property investment. He initially 
received some modest returns, but these stopped and Mr L concluded hed been the victim 
of a scam. His outstanding loss is around £71,000 which he is seeking from Co-op. 
In late 2022 Mr L complained to Co-op. He alleged theyd failed when opening the recipient 
account and that theyd failed to appropriately monitor it. Co-op didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong and declined to pay any redress. The complaint was referred to our service 
and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr L disagrees and has 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr L, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I accept that Mr L has been the victim of a scam. But being the victim of a scam 
doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from the bank that received his funds. It would 
only be fair and reasonable for me to direct Co-op to do more if I think they are responsible 
for failures which caused or contributed to Mr Ls outstanding loss. 
Im satisfied that Co-op followed its process and complied with its obligations when opening 
the account that received funds from Mr L. I dont think Co-op reasonably could have known 
at that point, that the account would go on to receive funds as a result of a scam. So I dont 
think the outstanding loss was preventable in relation to the opening of the account. 
I can quite understand the argument made by Mr L about the larger of his two payments. He 
thinks the receipt and dispersal of such a large amount of money ought to have stood out to 
Co-op and that had they intervened, it could have prevented his loss. But each account is 
unique. And the account that received Mr Ls funds was regularly used to send and receive 
large sums of money. And this was in line with what was expected for an account of this type 
and the nature of the business concerned. And it is in that context, that I dont think the 
activity on the account was so unusual, out of character or potentially indicative of fraud 
where Id have expected Co-op to have done more at the time. The arrival and spending of 
Mr Ls funds continued the established pattern of account use. 
Im also satisfied that by the time Co-op were informed of a potential problem with that 
account, all of Mr Ls money had already been transferred out. So, overall, I dont think there 
were any failures in relation to the monitoring of the account (or any recovery efforts) which 
impacted the loss suffered by Mr L. 
Im sorry to hear Mr L lost so much money. But as I dont think this is something Co-op are 
responsible for, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can require them to do more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman