DRN-3307736
The complaint
Miss H complains that First Response Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2016, Miss H acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
First Response. Miss H was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £252. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £12,118.
Miss H says that First Response didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. First Response didnt agree. It 
said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit search which showed 
there were no outstanding commitments and verifying Miss Hs income through a pay slip.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought First Response 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss H didnt agree and said her bank statements showed she had other loans and her 
credit report would have shown she had previously experienced issues with credit and had 
entered a debt management plan. Miss H said that she shouldnt have to pay the 
outstanding amount on her agreement given the car has been returned and sold.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Response will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think First Response gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Miss H about her income. I say this because it asked about 
her employment and confirmed her monthly income with a recent payslip. It then considered 
the information on the payslip regarding earnings to date and used the lower monthly figure 
in its calculations.  
The credit check First Response completed showed some adverse information about 
previous accounts and while I note there was no evidence of outstanding issues at the time 
of the credit check, given the recent history I think it would have been proportionate for First 
Response to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss H financial circumstances 
before lending.
First Response asked about Miss Hs expenditure and she said she was living at home and 
paid £100 towards household bills. It then included an amount for living costs based on an 
external data source. However, given the information in the credit report I think further 
checks would have been proportionate. One of the ways that First Response could have 
verified Miss Hs expenditure was by reviewing bank statements. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements Miss H has provided for the period prior to the application. 
These show limited regular expenditure for living costs but they do show that she had taken 
out loans with individuals. They didnt show any payday loans and based on what I have 
seen I do not think there is enough to say that further checks would have shown the 
agreement to have been unaffordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that First 
Response acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
I understand that Miss H doesnt think she should be required to repay the outstanding 
balance on the account as she no longer has the car. I have looked at the statements on her 
account and can see the car was sold in 2017 and the proceeds offset against her 
outstanding balance. As I am not upholding this complaint, I do not find I can say that this 
balance has to be reduced further. However, as Miss H has explained her situation and the 
distress and anxiety this has caused her, I would expect First Response to treat her 
positively and sympathetically regarding the repayment of any outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman