DRN-1521392
 
complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside 
Mr Cs mortgage in 2002. Mr C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done that, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says he cant remember how the policy was sold. Nationwide says it was sold during a 
meeting in branch and has provided copies of Mr Cs mortgage documents. Having looked at 
these, it looks like the policy was sold during a meeting. I say this because the mortgage 
application has been pre-printed with Mr Cs details and then hand-written annotations have 
been added to the form. I think a conversation took place between Mr C and Nationwides 
employee and the application form has been completed based on what was discussed. So, I 
think its more likely that the policy was sold during an interaction in a branch.
Whatever way the policy was sold Nationwide should have made sure Mr C was aware the 
policy was optional. Mr C says this wasnt made clear. As I cant know exactly what was 
discussed with the adviser when Mr C applied for the advance, Ive looked at the mortgage 
documents Nationwide has provided. Ive also thought about Mr Cs comments and what I 
know about these kinds of sales in general. 
On the copy of the application form for mortgage, I can see under the section for PPI, it 
states yes I would like to protect my mortgage. Its likely there would have also been an 
option to not select the cover. Ive also reviewed a copy of the mortgage product 
confirmation document where it states under the section for PPI that cover has been 
selected for accident and sickness only, and not for unemployment. So, I think its likely that 
Mr C discussed the option for the policy at the time and he chose the cover which best 
suited his circumstances at the time. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think Nationwide made it clear that that the policy was 
optional, and Mr C chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember 
this.
Based on my experience of how Nationwide usually sold these policies at the time, I dont 
think its likely it gave Mr C advice about whether to buy the policy. So, this meant it didnt 
have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have to make sure that Mr C got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. 
Mr C says he would have received sick pay benefits from his employer. But the policy would 
have paid out alongside these benefits. Meaning he could use these benefits to cover other 
essential costs. 
Mr C also said his mother could have helped him with the repayments if he was too unwell to 
work. While I dont doubt Mr Cs mother would have wanted to help, peoples situations can 
change. And I dont think Mr C could necessarily have relied on his mothers help.
Mr C was borrowing additional funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on his home  on his own. On this basis, I think having the security that 
his mortgage repayments would be made if Mr C was unable to work would have been 
important to him. So, it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for Mr C. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mr C has lost out by anything Nationwide might have done wrong. 
my final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
 
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman