DRN-2945904
The complaint
Mr E complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line has unfairly recorded an 
entry on the Claims & Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database which he withdrew and didnt 
pursue.
What happened
Mr E called UKI to make a claim for water ingress 
He was asked if he wanted to pursue a claim, which he confirmed he did. 
Relevant information was given about the process, including that it may affect the 
renewal price and UKI would appoint an expert to make an appointment to inspect 
the property.
UKI sent instructions to its agent who attempted to contact Mr E. 
Theres some disagreement about this but in the end Mr E arranged the repairs 
himself and didnt pursue the claim. 
As the agent had carried out some work in initially setting up the claim file, wrote to 
Mr E and attempted to arrange an appointment the agent charged UKI a £30 fee. 
UKI entered a claim entry on the CUE database including its expenditure of £30.
Mr E complained about this. Hes finding the cost of insurance quotes has increased 
because of the entry and wants it removed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary;
Mr E had registered a claim.
UKI had incurred a cost.
Those had to be recorded on CUE and that was reasonable.
UKI didnt have to explain the fee for cancellation of the inspection but even if it did 
this wouldnt have made any difference.
Mr E disagreed saying, in summary;
He wasnt given enough information to make an informed choice.
He wouldnt have proceeded if hed known the low value of the claim.
The agent didnt make contact for five days and it was they who cancelled the claim.
He was given incorrect information in earlier calls (e.g. Told he had emergency cover 
when he did not).
UKI failed to give cover, by not facilitating a repair, failed to reply in a timely way and 
didnt mention the CUE database.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Es complaint is about the CUE entry and the impact this is having on his 
renewal price. Hes briefly mentioned issues before the main claim set-up call but UKI sent 
him a response on that and offered him some compensation. 
Among other duties, insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and provide reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and information on its progress. 
During the claim set-up call the following is noteworthy;
Mr E was specifically asked if he wanted to make a claim. 
He explained water is coming into his home due to render coming off the chimney 
and so didnt feel he had any other choice. 
Hes told the excess applicable, what next steps UKI would take in appointing an 
agent and that he could, as hed expressed, carry out some temporary work to 
mitigate further damage. 
He was also told that it may impact the premium at renewal. 
He was asked if he was happy to proceed and he said he had no choice. 
UKIs handler talked through the process of appointing the building expert whod call 
within two hours (or the next morning given the time of day) to arrange an inspection 
of the damage. 
Mr E was given the agents contact details. 
From the information provided, I am satisfied the agent tried to call Mr E, sent him an email 
with covering letter and a message that theyd tried to make contact. It is correct that around 
five days had passed before Mr E spoke with the agent, but Im not persuaded that was due 
to any failure by UKI or its appointed agent.
CUE is a database that insurers use to report and record incidents which may or may not 
have given rise to a claim. UKI has recorded the claim as reported by Mr E with £30 against 
other payments. So, Im satisfied that UKI has recorded the claim report from Mr E 
accurately along with its £30 payment and in line with good industry practice.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman