DRN-2797885
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
December 1994 alongside a credit card account. Mrs G, who is represented by a third 
party, says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
The PPI provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mrs G says she was made to think she had to take the policy. She also says she didnt 
need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Because Mrs G disagrees, her complaint 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mrs Gs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mrs G about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI. But from what Ive 
seen it looks like she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Mrs G says she cant remember how she bought the card. Lloyds accepts that it may have 
made a recommendation that she should buy the cover and that the sale most likely 
happened at a meeting in a branch. 
Its unfortunate that we dont have a copy of the actual application form  which isnt 
surprising after so much time. However, I think she would have had the opportunity to 
discuss taking PPI with a Lloyds representative at the time and then to review the application 
form before she signed it. And there would have been a separate section on the form where 
she could tick a box to show she wanted to buy PPI. So I think on balance Mrs G likely had 
enough opportunity to think about whether she wanted PPI to go with her new card and 
decided she did.
Ive looked at the sale on the basis that Lloyds needed to make sure the card was suitable 
for her and also that it gave her enough information so that she could make an informed 
choice about whether she wanted to take it. I think she received some information about 
the policy at the time of the sale and would also have been given the full policy text either 
at the meeting or by post soon afterwards.
But its still possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Given that she chose to take it out, though, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would 
have been useful to her if something went wrong.
I say this having taken into account that Mrs G told us she would have received some sick 
pay from her employer, being 6 months at full pay and 6 months at half pay, if she couldnt 
work due to accident or sickness. But the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, for 
up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding. 
On the question of cost the PPI also looks like it was affordable, being no more than 79p 
per £100 if the outstanding monthly balance. And Mrs G hasnt made us aware of any 
particular issues with being able to pay for it.
Overall, therefore, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs G off 
taking out the cover.
Ive seen that Mrs G has already been paid back some of the cost of the PPI on the 
card. So based on my findings I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more.
I realise that Mrs G will find this outcome disappointing but I would like to assure her that I 
reached my finding having carefully considered all the evidence and information she has 
provided, as well as the response provided by the third party representing her after our 
adjudicators assessment of her complaint had been sent. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman