DRN-3714729
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they asked Santander UK Plc to decrease the remaining term of 
their mortgage, to let them pay the mortgage off faster without triggering early repayment 
charges (ERCs) but Santander said the reduction they wanted wasnt affordable.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs D, as the mortgage is in both their
names, our dealings have been with Mr D. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr D said hed made changes to his mortgage in September 2021, converting an interest
only mortgage to a repayment mortgage, and reducing the term to the lowest possible.
Santander agreed then to reduce this mortgage to six years three months.
Mr D said that since then, hed paid off a further £100,000, and the term had been further
reduced as a result of this. His monthly contractual mortgage payment was a little over
£5,000, and he said he was making sizeable overpayments. But these overpayments
triggered an ERC. So he asked Santander to reduce the term again, increasing his monthly
payments to £10,000 per month. Mr D told us Santander had refused, on affordability
grounds, and said it would only reduce the term by 2 months.
Mr D said Santander was including rolling debt on his credit cards, which was cleared every
month. And it wasnt including rental income he receives. Mr D said Santander was just
doing this to get extra money out of him, in the form of the ERC which he was being charged
for overpaying his mortgage by more than his annual allowance. He said hed paid a
considerable amount in ERCs over the last year. He wanted that back, and he wanted
Santander to reduce his mortgage term so his contractual monthly payment was £10,000 per
month. He said Santander wasnt being reasonable.
Santander said that it hadnt made this decision on the basis of affordability, it had made the
decision on the basis of information obtained through a credit search. It would still only offer
to reduce this mortgage term by two months. And it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had taken
the same steps to review Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage term in September 2021 and then in
February 2022. Our investigator said Santander was entitled to base its decision on what Mr
and Mrs Ds outstanding credit balances and available credit showed at the time. Mr D did
have a large amount of available credit, which can be seen as a lending risk. Our
investigator said Santander had acted reasonably, and it considered Mr and Mrs Ds
circumstances and their best interests when offering the two month term reduction.
Mr D replied to say he wasnt happy. He said he paid off all of his short-term lending, like
credit cards, every month. And he had savings from the sale of a property. He asked how it
could be fair that he had reduced his credit considerably, his income was the same, but he
was being denied the opportunity to reduce the term because of affordability. Mr D said in
his view, the only reason Santander didnt want to reduce the term was because it wanted to
ensure it got the ERC on his fixed rate mortgage. Mr D said he would incur £15,000 in fees
for paying off his mortgage early, that wasnt fair and it was just profiteering by Santander.
Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr D has been clear that he has a considerable amount of surplus income, and can 
afford very much larger mortgage payments. His current mortgage has an interest rate 
which is fixed until 2025, and like most fixed interest rate mortgages, Mr D tells us that 
an ERC is payable if he makes large overpayments. So he wants Santander to shorten 
his mortgage term. That would mean he owes Santander much more each month, and 
would in turn allow him to make larger payments, without triggering any ERC.
Santander has said it wont do this, on the basis of information found in Mr Ds credit 
report. I agree with our investigator that Santander is entitled to assess the risk to it of 
changing the basis of its lending to Mr and Mrs D, and its able to reach its own decision 
on this. I havent seen anything in this case to make me think that Santander has 
assessed Mr and Mrs Ds application unfairly.
Mr D says Santander is only refusing to make a further reduction to his term so that it 
can charge him the ERC on his mortgage, which he considers is profiteering. But an 
ERC isnt just a profit to Santander. An ERC must be based on a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs incurred to the lender as a result of the borrower repaying the 
mortgage back early. Although that more often happens when someone wants to 
redeem their mortgage and move their lending elsewhere than when someones able to 
pay off their mortgage entirely earlier than expected, the effect for Santander is the 
same  its no longer going to be lending against the same schedule as it originally 
planned.
Because the ERC isnt just profit to Santander, but rather is in place to offset costs 
incurred by shortening a mortgage, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Santander 
to say it wouldnt make a further reduction in Mr Ds mortgage, specifically so he can 
avoid paying the ERC which currently applies. In the circumstances of this particular 
case, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Santander to say to Mr and Mrs D that 
they should continue to pay in line with the agreement that they made in summer 2021.
I know that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr D replied, but Santander did not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D sent us evidence of the substantial reductions hed been making to this mortgage. He 
sent us his credit report, and he has also listed the assets his wife and he hold. He repeated that he didnt see how what Santander was doing was treating customers fairly, and that the 
reasons Santander had given for not reducing his mortgage term were wrong. He wanted to 
know how it was acceptable for Santander to charge the same ERC if his mortgage was 
repaid in July 2025 or in June 2024. Mr D complains that Santander was pocketing several 
thousand pounds in fees, and he felt it was simply profiteering.
I set out in my provisional decision that Santander is entitled to assess the risk to it of 
changing the basis of its lending to Mr and Mrs D, and that I havent seen anything in this 
case to make me think Santander has assessed Mr and Mrs Ds application unfairly. I still 
think that. 
I also noted that the ERC isnt just profit to Santander. To expand on this point a little, the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook (in MCOB 12.3.1(2)) sets out that any ERC must be 
a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the customer repaying the 
amount due under the regulated mortgage contract before the contract has 
terminated.
So I dont think I can fairly base a revised outcome here on Mr Ds assertion that Santander 
is just profiteering. If Mr D thinks Santanders ERC is not a reasonable pre-estimate of costs, 
then I must ask him to talk to Santander about this in the first instance. Our service cant 
consider a complaint before the bank has been offered an opportunity to respond to it, so I 
wont make any finding on this point here. 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman