DRN-3768280
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
Miss S works in the fashion industry and, in March 2021, she was approached by a designer 
she had met a few times through work with an opportunity to invest in his business. The 
designer told Miss S he had agreed a contract to provide clothes to a well-known retailer but 
needed some money to complete the order. He said he would pay her back double what she 
lent him, within two weeks. So Miss S made a number of payments to the designer, including 
one payment of £1,500 from her Monzo account.
Miss S didnt receive her money back from the designer by the agreed deadline, so she 
started chasing him for updates. And while he did initially respond, the emails Miss M sent 
him then started being returned undelivered, his phone number stopped working, his website 
was taken down and he blocked her on social media. Miss S also visited the designers 
office, which was permanently closed. Miss S was then contacted by someone else who had 
given money to the designer and spoke to Police who were investigating him. And so she 
then contacted Monzo to report the payment she made as fraud and ask it to refund the 
money she had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it felt the situation was a civil matter between Miss S and the 
designer, so it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Miss S wasnt satisfied with 
Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt the designer set out with the 
intention to defraud Miss S, and so this case should be treated as a scam rather than a civil 
dispute. They also didnt think Monzo had established that Miss S had ignored an effective 
warning when making the payment or didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
designer was legitimate. So they thought Monzo should refund the money Miss S had lost in 
full. Monzo disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only covered by the 
code where they have been the victim of a scam.
Does the CRM code apply to the payment Miss S made?
The CRM code says it applies to payments made as a result of an APP scam, which it 
defines as where:
(i) The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
And it says it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order to decide 
whether Monzo should refund the money Miss S lost under the CRM code, I first need to 
consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether the 
designer set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Monzo has said the designer had a showroom and employees, showed Miss S convincing 
looking paperwork, and that Miss S had met them in person several times. So it appeared 
that this was a genuine business opportunity that just went wrong.
But the information Ive seen suggests there were a significant number of other people who 
lent money to the designer for similar reasons to Miss S and didnt get their money back. It 
appears the paperwork Miss S was shown by the designer was faked, and the designer 
showed similar fake paperwork from different well-known retailers to the other people as 
well. The orders the designer told Miss S and the other people he needed to complete dont 
appear to have ever existed. And the designer has been arrested in connection with these 
agreements. So I think its likely the designer set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud Miss S.
Monzo has also argued that Miss Ss agreement with the designer was just for a loan, and 
the paperwork she and the designer signed for that loan doesnt mention any business 
opportunity or investment. And so the business opportunity or investment is not relevant to 
whether it should have to refund the money Miss S lost. But I disagree. As I explained 
above, the CRM code defines a scam as where a customer transferred funds to another 
person for what they believed were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. So 
I think the purpose of the payment and what the customer believed they were doing or 
getting in return is relevant.
Miss S thought she was lending the designer money so he could complete an order with a 
retailer. And that the designer would pay her back, plus some profit, once the order was 
complete. But the order didnt really exist. So I think the purpose she transferred the funds 
for was fraudulent, and this situation does fall under the definition of a scam from the CRM 
code.So I think Miss S has been the victim of a scam, and the CRM code does apply to the 
payment she made as a result of it.
Is Miss S entitled to a refund under the CRM code?
As I explained above, the CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victim of authorised push payment scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning it says Miss S would have seen before she made 
the payment. And the warning says:
Stop, dont pay. Its very likely this is a scam.
Remember:
Legitimate investments will never guarantee a profit
Legitimate investments arent arranged over social media or things like WhatsApp
Check out the company
See if theyre a legitimate company here. Dont pay unless theyre registered with the FCA 
and youre certain you can trust them.
While the warning does mention that this could be a scam, the specific examples it gives 
about guaranteed profit or being arranged over social media arent really relevant to Miss Ss 
circumstances. They are more focused on traditional types of investment that receive 
ongoing returns, whereas Miss S was just going to receive a lump sum once the order was 
complete. And Miss S had met the designer in person and the agreement was originally 
discussed over the phone. I also dont think the warning goes into enough detail about what 
the scam could look or feel like. So I dont think this warning was specific enough to be 
effective in Miss Ss circumstances.
I also dont think Monzo has established that Miss S made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine. She had met the designer in person and been to his 
showroom, which will have made him seem legitimate. She was also shown a genuine-
looking letter between the designer and the retailer, showing the order he had supposedly 
agreed with them. The designer then sent her a relatively professional-looking loan 
agreement to sign. And he sent her a copy of his passport and gave her a plausible explanation for why he needed the money from her, rather than getting a loan from a high-
street bank. So I think Miss S did have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she 
was making was genuine.
And so I dont think Monzo has established that any of the exceptions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply. So it should refund the £1,500 payment Miss S made, in full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss S the £1,500 payment she lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected her claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman