DRN-1275884
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1995 Mrs B took out a PPI policy following a phone call with AXA. This wasn't at the same 
time as Mrs B took out the store card - she'd had the account for around three years when 
the PPI was added. 
The policy provided protection for Mrs B's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% 
of the outstanding monthly account balance and it would pay out until Mrs B returned to work 
or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs 
B owed on the card and the payments did attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mrs B was employed, and she says she was entitled to less than six 
months' sick pay.  She says she can't remember whether she had any savings she could've 
used to make her repayments. She says she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs B paid around £270 in total for PPI during the lifetime of the policy.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mrs B chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs B disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs B's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs B have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA's records show that Mrs B took out PPI  around three years after the store card was 
taken out  the two things didn't happen at the same time. AXA no longer has a call recording of the phone conversation - and this isn't surprising given the passage of time. But 
it indicates the sale of PPI was a separate and distinct interaction with AXA not linked to the 
original store card application or decision to lend.
So in light of the above and the limited evidence about an event which happened many 
years ago,  I dont think I can fairly say that AXA more likely than not misrepresented the 
policy as not being optional or that Mrs B didn't agree to take it out.
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs B to take out PPI, and I've seen nothing 
to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs B. 
But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could 
make an informed decision.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs 
B about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale 
took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, I think Mrs B chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking 
out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs B PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs B has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs B what she paid for PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman