DRN-2169812
The complaint
Mr A says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr A says he was in a cycle of debt and 
had a poor credit rating. He had been rejected for loans from other short-term credit 
providers and the lending he had with MYJAR caused him significant mental health issues. 
He had already received redress from two other short-term credit providers and wanted the 
same from MYJAR.
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan MYJAR provided to Mr A in March 2019. Mr As 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 25/03/2019 27/09/2019 6 £350.00 £107.00
When Mr A complained to MYJAR its response referred to a loan of £700 that was still 
outstanding. This wasnt noticed until our adjudicator reviewed the business file and who 
then referred back to MYJAR. It said this was an error and the loan details are as listed 
above and there is no outstanding balance due. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They thought there was nothing in the 
information that MYJAR had obtained about Mr A to show that the lending was unaffordable 
for him or unsustainable. Also, there was nothing in that information that should have caused 
MYJAR to carry out more proportionate checks than it already had. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint. I know Mr A will be extremely disappointed, but Id like to explain 
why. 
MYJAR has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. On the 
application forms it asked Mr A about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,000. MYJAR also asked about Mr As normal 
monthly living costs. Mr A was living with his parents and his monthly costs were minimal at 
£145. 
MYJAR says it obtained information from the loan application, credit reference agencies and 
public databases. It also carried out fraud checks and used its own credit scoring system 
before agreeing to lend to Mr A. It says it cross-referenced and validated what it received 
from these sources together with the information Mr A provided. I think it was reasonable for 
MYJAR to have relied upon this information bearing in mind the loan was at the early stage 
in the lending relationship. And Mr As stated monthly commitments werent onerous. So, in 
these circumstances it wasnt unreasonable of MYJAR to lend to him. The lending looked 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
Its possible that Mr As financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the information MYJAR obtained as a result of its own checks. 
And Mr As financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as 
bank statements or more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained. 
But as Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And MYJAR could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. In these circumstances  at the 
beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. This could have included asking Mr A for evidence of his 
income and outgoings which MYJAR could have gathered from documents such as bank 
statement or copies of bills. 
I have considered the information MYJAR was provided with when it carried out its checks. 
And there isnt anything in the information it has given us that may have led MYJAR to 
conclude that it should decline Mr As application for the borrowing. And there isnt anything 
to have given MYJAR cause for concern  bearing in mind this loan was that beginning of 
the lending relationship  or to have prompted it to ask for more information from Mr A.
In these circumstances, I think the assessment MYJAR carried out for this loan was 
proportionate. I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided the loan, based solely on the 
information it gathered from its checks and the information Mr A gave about his financial 
situation. I dont think MYJARs decision to lend to Mr A was unreasonable. 
Its clear from Mr As testimony that he has struggled with his mental health and I am very 
sorry to hear that. But I hope I have been able to explain to him why I have reached the 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman