DRN-4164585
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) blocked his account and has 
not adequately compensated him for the inconvenience that caused.
What happened
On 24 March 2022 Halifax received a report that Mr Bs account had received funds as a 
result of fraudulent activity. Halifax therefore blocked Mr Bs account while it looked into this 
claim.
Mr B discovered his account was blocked the next day and subsequently spent time visiting 
a branch and calling Halifax trying to resolve this issue. Halifax removed the block on Mr Bs 
account on 1 April 2022.
Mr B was unhappy with how Halifax had handled things and so raised a complaint. Halifax 
looked into his concerns and agreed it should have notified him when it added the block to 
his account, so it offered him £30 for the cost of his calls and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this. But Halifax didnt agree it had done anything wrong in adding 
the block to Mr Bs account in the first place or in how long it took to remove the block.
Mr B was unhappy with Halifaxs response, he feels that any compensation should reflect his 
hourly wage and the hours he spent dealing with Halifax regarding this complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened and, overall, they agreed with 
Halifaxs approach and felt the compensation offered was fair. Mr B remained unhappy, so 
his case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr B when his account was blocked. But banks have 
an obligation to act on and investigate any reports of fraudulent behaviour on an account. 
Halifax had been told that Mr B had received funds fraudulently and I consider it was 
reasonable for it to block his account  to ensure any remaining funds could not be spent  
and to then investigate this report before agreeing to unblock the account.
I understand that it then took around a week for Mr Bs account to be unblocked, but I dont 
consider that to be an unreasonable length of time. Mr B had provided evidence to support 
his assertion that no fraud had taken place, but it was reasonable for Halifax to take time to 
consider that evidence.
Overall then, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Halifax to place the temporary block on 
Mr Bs account, and that it was also reasonable for it to then take some time for the block to 
be removed. I also note that during this period Halifax did, on one occasion, nonetheless 
allow Mr B to withdraw some funds from his account that had recently been paid in so that 
he wasnt without access to money. 
It follows that as I dont think Halifax caused any unreasonable delays here I wont be asking 
it to compensate Mr B for the time it took for his account to be unblocked or for the time Mr B 
spent contacting Halifax about this issue.
I do acknowledge that, as Halifax has itself noted, it should have told Mr B the block had 
been added to his account in the first place, and this did cause Mr B some distress and 
inconvenience as he was unaware of the block until he tried to use his account. But Im 
satisfied that Halifaxs offer of £30 for the calls Mr B made and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels he should receive much higher compensation  in line with his 
hourly rate and the time he has spent dealing with this complaint  but that is not how we 
determine the appropriate award in the cases we consider. The £130 that Halifax has offered 
is in line with what I would have awarded, so while I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr B, I wont be asking Halifax to increase that award.
 
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Mr B the £130 it has offered, if it hadnt done so already.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above as I am satisfied that what it had already offered was 
reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman