DRN-4187333
The complaint
Mr K complains that Zopa Limited are holding him liable for a loan agreement which he says 
he didnt enter into.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2016 Zopa agreed a loan in Mr Ks name. The application was made online and 
signed electronically. The £10,000 loan funds were paid into a joint account held by both 
Mr K and Mrs K (his wife at the time). This was with a bank Ill refer to as H. Of those funds, 
£9,000 was promptly moved into another account which H says was also in the same joint 
names. 
Repayments were made towards the loan from the initial account with H between 
March 2016 and August 2018 after which five consecutive payments were missed. Zopa 
ultimately defaulted the loan and passed the debt to a debt recovery company. Mr K says 
the debt isnt his. He says his ex-wife took the loan in his name without his knowledge or 
consent. He says his wifes business failed and they were both in significant financial 
difficulty at the time. He says hes acted responsibly and has accepted his debts with various 
other lenders, and Zopa is the only one hes disputing as he genuinely had no knowledge of 
it until late 2018. 
Mr K complained to Zopa who maintained their position of holding him liable for the debt. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. Mr K disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. 
Key to this decision is whether Mr K agreed to the loan agreement that Zopa are holding him 
to. This would mean either that he entered into it himself, or that his wife took it out in his 
name with his consent and agreement (effectively acting as his agent). 
Mr K has made much of a letter which appears to be signed by his ex-wife. This letter was 
address to a debt management company and is dated 8 October 2022. Ive copied part of it 
below:
I can confirm that I had applied for the loan and not Mr [K]. I made regular timely payments 
on the loan until my business began to fail At the time of making the application I had 
incorrectly used [Mr Ks] name in the application, it was an administrative error. This is 
further supported by the facts that the email, and mobile phone number used in the online 
application was my own and not [Mr Ks].
Mr K says this evidences the loan was taken without his knowledge and that his ex-wife 
should be responsible. Zopa say that theyve considered this letter but still maintain that 
Mr K is responsible for the loan. They said they had no way of verifying the letters 
authenticity. They also pointed out that the loan application included Mr Ks date of birth and 
details of his employment and salary. I agree with Zopa on this point. The letter suggests 
that the wrong name was put on the application in error, but its harder to accept that the 
wrong date of birth, employment and salary details were also included by mistake. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Zopa to not place much weight on that letter. 
Payments were made towards the loan from the joint account (which Mr K would have had 
access to) for over two years before it was disputed. The majority of the loan funds were 
also moved into another account that Mr K was party to, and again he would have had the 
opportunity to have seen and questioned these funds at the time. I appreciate Mr K says he 
often worked away and his wife must have hidden statements etc. I accept this is possible 
and that payments to Zopa on the statement wouldnt automatically evidence that this was a 
loan in Mr Ks name. 
But I find a letter that Mr K wrote to Zopa in September 2018 to be persuasive evidence. Ive 
included part of that letter below (my emphasis added). 
My wife and I are unable to meet the contractual payments on my credit line with your 
Company With regards to our personal assets and liabilities, we have a property which is 
on the market for sale and from the sales proceeds we should be able to pay our personal 
creditors in full. While the property is on the market for sale waiting to be sold I should be 
grateful if you would withhold from taking legal action against us. During this period we are 
prepared to make a token payment of £1 per month. We have taken insolvency advice from 
a Licenced Insolvency Practitioner and hope that you will allow us to proceed and conclude 
the sales as noted above.
Although the letter is signed by Mr and Mrs K, the phrases my wife and I and my credit line 
indicate that it was written by Mr K himself. And this suggests at this stage he was fully 
aware that the loan was his  yet there is no mention of it being disputed or in the wrong 
name. One of our Investigators asked Mr K why hed written a joint letter promising payment 
for a loan he hadnt taken out? Mr K said at that time he and his wife hadnt yet decided to 
separate and he was under a lot of pressure looking after three children and an 
incapacitated wife. He says its understandable that a mistake could have been made. Ive 
taken this into consideration, but if Mr K didnt know the debt was his prior to September 
2018, Im surprised he didnt include anything in his letter to Zopa about it at that time. 
Mr K said that his wife had attempted to include the loan in her IVA, but Zopa declined this 
as it wasnt in her name. Ive not seen evidence of this and Zopa told our service theyd only 
received contact from Mr K about an IVA in relation to this loan. But even if the contact from 
Mr Ks ex-wife could be evidenced, it wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this 
complaint. This is because Mr Ks ex-wife later seeking to include the loan in her own IVA 
doesnt evidence that Mr K wasnt aware of the loan when it was taken out. 
Overall, I dont think Zopa concluding, based on the evidence available to them, that the loan 
was most likely taken by Mr K is unfair. And it follows that there isnt a reasonable basis 
upon which I can direct them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman