DRN-1970944
 
The complaint
Mr B complained about the way London General Insurance Company Limited (LGI) dealt 
with a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy when his phone stopped working.
What happened
Mr B bought a new phone. At the same time, he bought an insurance policy from LGI to 
cover him if the phone was damaged accidentally.
In mid-2019, the phone was damaged. So Mr B contacted LGI to make a claim. LGI 
arranged to collect and examine the phone. They couldnt source what they needed to repair 
it, so they provided Mr B with a replacement phone. The replacement wasnt new but had 
been refurbished. The replacement had a 90 day recall period in place, should there be any 
issues with it.
A couple of months later, the refurbished phone also developed a fault. LGI arranged for this 
phone to be collected and inspected.
Mr B complained to LGI. He was unhappy that his original phone had been replaced with a 
refurbished model  not a new one. And that the refurbished phone had developed a fault 
when hed only had it for a short time. Mr B also raised concerns about the length of the 
recall period LGI offered  he felt this was too short.
LGI investigated the complaint. They agreed theyd provided Mr B with a faulty replacement. 
They apologised for this and offered him £15 compensation. But they said that the 90 day 
recall period was satisfactory to address any issues with a refurbished phone  so they didnt 
accept Mr Bs concerns about this being too short. And they said that the policy allowed 
them to replace damaged phones with refurbished ones.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with LGIs response, so he brought his complaint to us. As well as the 
issues hed raised with LGI, Mr B told us that hed lost photos because the fault on the 
refurbished phone had stopped him backing things up to the online storage facility he usually 
used. And because hed been without a phone while the fault was investigated, hed had to 
buy a replacement. He thought LGI should cover the cost of him doing that.
Our investigator considered the evidence and reached the conclusion that LGI shouldnt 
have done anything differently. He said that, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
LGI were entitled to replace Mr Bs phone with a refurbished model. And that the policy 
excluded liability for the loss of photos and other data. He acknowledged Mr Bs frustration 
that the refurbished replacement developed a fault. But he said that this happens 
sometimes, which is why theres a 90 day recall period - which Mr B was able to use. And 
that, even though it took time to examine the phone and sort the problem, Mr B had told him 
that this was done within the time LGI had told him it would be. So he couldnt say anything 
had gone wrong there.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view, so Ive been asked to make a decision about 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. It says that LGI will decide 
whether to repair or replace a phone thats been damaged. If they decide to replace it, the 
replacement wont necessarily be identical  but it will be of an equivalent specification. And 
it says that LGI may use refurbished phones as replacements.
I understand Mr Bs unhappy that he wasnt given a new phone. But Im satisfied that the 
policy allowed LGI to provide a refurbished phone as if they replaced a damaged one. So it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say they did anything wrong here.
I agree with our investigator its unfortunate Mr Bs replacement phone also developed a 
fault. I can see how this would have been frustrating and inconvenient. But Im satisfied that 
LGI acted as soon as they were aware of the problem, using the arrangement they had in 
place to deal with a problem if it arose. Given the fault was with the replacement phone LGI 
had provided, this is what I would have expected them to do.  Im aware they fixed the 
problem/provided Mr B with a replacement phone, to ensure he was put back in the position 
he should have been in  that being having a working phone, equivalent to the one he 
originally had.
I know Mr Bs upset that he lost photos from the faulty phone. I can understand this  they 
captured particular moments that he cant replace. But the policy doesnt cover data 
(including photos) stored on the phone. So I cant say that LGI should compensate Mr B for 
them being lost.
LGI offered Mr B £15 because the replacement phone they gave him was faulty, which they 
accepted this would have been inconvenient for Mr B.  Mr B didnt think that was enough and 
said LGI should pay for the replacement hed bought himself. I can understand why Mr B lost 
some confidence in the replacement process. But LGI had procedures in place to deal with 
the fault. It was his choice to buy a different phone, rather than wait for LGI to complete their 
inspection. And he told our investigator that LGI dealt with the issue within the time limits 
they set. So it wouldnt be fair for me to say LGI should pay Mr B for the phone he bought  
or to decide they should pay him any more compensation than theyve already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about London General 
Insurance Company Limited. So I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.Helen Stacey
Ombudsman