DRN-1979123
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). Hes 
unhappy about the way it proposes to pay his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) from his 
Section 32 Buy-out plan (S32).
What happened
Mr C says that L&G arent paying the GMP element of the plan as contracted as they say it 
will be paid from two different plans. Hes also unhappy that L&G said he couldnt keep his 
funds invested after he reached 75 despite the pension freedom rules.
L&G upheld the complaint in part. It accepted Mr C had been misinformed at some points 
and offered him £150 for any inconvenience this had caused. It explained that the GMP was 
being paid correctly and why Mr C couldnt leave the S32 in place after he was 75. It offered 
to allow him to switch the S32 into a drawdown plan instead.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. She 
didnt think that it should be upheld. She noted that Mr C had started this S32 in 1997 on 
advice from an independent financial adviser. The retirement date was set at age 60. Mr C 
didnt want to take the benefits at 60 and it was only as he approached 75 that he looked into 
his options. He was told that he would have to take an annuity but subsequently L&G offered 
to allow him to switch to a Flexi Access Drawdown (FADD) arrangement.
In relation to the GMP, the investigator explained that L&G were contractually obliged to pay 
the GMP at retirement age. The S32 was funded by a transfer value from Mr Cs former 
employer and L&G had to pay the GMP regardless of the eventual value of the fund. 
Although the transfer value had been divided into two funds for investment, they were linked 
and formed one S32 policy. An IFA had confirmed this to Mr C in a letter from 2017. Both 
funds could be used to pay the GMP if necessary.
In relation to the options at 75, the investigator explained that although there had been 
changes to pension laws in 2015 these changes didnt mean that providers couldnt rely on 
the existing terms and conditions of the pension plans. The S32 set out that the pension 
could be delayed, but only to 75. However, L&G had agreed that Mr C could move to FADD 
anyway.
Mr C didnt accept that view. He said that he hadnt been sent the £150 promised. He also 
said that he had been led to understand that the GMP fund was separate. He referred to 
statements L&G had made and in particular a statement when it had said that part of the 
transfer value would be invested in the with-profits fund to cover the GMP.
Mr C also added that L&G had refused to offer an enhanced annuity despite his poor health.
The investigator responded and restated that the S32 was one policy and the whole of the 
transfer value invested could be used to pay the GMP. She also explained that the GMP was 
the amount the occupational pension would have agreed to pay in order to be allowed to contract out of the State Related Earnings Pension Scheme. It is this amount that remains 
payable and so enhancements wouldnt apply to it. 
Mr C responded and referred to correspondence from L&G which said that there were two 
plans and that it was unable to hold the GMP on the same plan as the rest of your fund.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has a S32 plan with L&G. These plans were introduced in section 32 of the Finance 
Act 1981. While that legislation was repealed years ago, the old label is still used today.
S32 plans allowed the trustees of a workplace pension to wind up that pension, transferring 
the value of the members benefits into individual plans. They also allowed former 
employees with preserved benefits to transfer away from the workplace pension.
Section 32 plans can only be set up by transferring from certain types of workplace 
pensions. They cannot accept new money from the pension holder.
Many S32 plans were invested in with-profits funds, as appears to be the case here, 
especially when the plan included a GMP liability like this one. In effect, the S32 is required 
to pay the GMP Mr C built up as a member of his former employers pension scheme which 
was contracted-out of SERPS and provided a GMP instead. 
In many cases this service sees, the S32 plans are only paying the GMP with no other 
benefits because the fund value isnt enough to cover the cost of the S32 benefits. The 
pension provider is required to pay the GMP regardless of the fund value. That doesnt 
appear to be the case here and Mr Cs concern is that there are two plans and he thinks that 
only one of these should be used to pay the GMP.
I can understand Mr Cs point, and some of the correspondence he has received is slightly 
ambiguous. L&G has also accepted that there has been misinformation at some points. But 
essentially, I agree with the investigator, there was one transfer value which has funded one 
S32 policy. Although the investment may have been split into two funds, L&G is entitled to 
use the whole combined value to pay the GMP. That is what the S32 was designed to do. If 
there is a surplus in funds after the GMP is paid this is payable to Mr C.
Its also true that correspondence Mr C has referred to which referred to two plans also 
went on to say that although there were two plan numbers, but they are one policy.
And I also agree with the investigator that the S32 must pay the GMP, and so the issue of 
enhancement doesnt really apply.
S32 policies are not simple and straight forward. I can understand why there has been some 
confusion, but Im satisfied that L&G is correct in potentially using the money from both funds 
to pay the GMP. 
So Im not upholding this complaint. I think the offer L&G has made is fair. It should pay Mr C 
£150 if it hasnt already done so.I understand L&G has agreed with a successor firm which is to take over this policy that it 
will honour the agreement to allow a move to FADD.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. I consider the offer Legal and General has made to be fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman