DRN-2083065
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has settled a medical expenses claim he made on his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr A was on holiday abroad with his family. Unfortunately, he fell and he broke his glasses. 
He sought treatment from an optician, who removed something from his eye. The optician 
arranged a follow-up appointment for Mr A and sold him a pair of new glasses. So Mr A 
made a claim on his policy for the appointment costs and the price of his replacement 
glasses.
Mapfre settled the claim for Mr As opticians appointments under the medical expenses 
section of the policy. But it didnt agree to cover the cost of Mr As new glasses. It didnt 
consider these to have been an emergency medical expense. It explained it could consider 
the cost of Mr As old glasses under the baggage section of the policy. But as the policy 
didnt provide new for old cover, it wouldnt pay the cost of the new glasses. And it said the 
old glasses fell below the policy excess.
Mr A was unhappy with the settlement Mapfre had paid out and he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
evidence to show that the cost of Mr As new glasses could be treated as emergency 
medical costs. He also thought the cost of replacing Mr As new glasses was below the 
policy excess. So he thought it was fair for Mapfre not to pay out for these items.
Mr A disagreed. He said he had a medical condition which meant that without his glasses, 
he was unable to see properly. So he still felt the cost of his new glasses should be settled 
under the medical expenses section of the policy. Hed chosen the cheapest pair of 
replacement glasses possible and he felt Mapfre should cover the cost of them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfre has settled Mr As claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mr As 
policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether I think Mapfre has acted fairly.
First, Ive considered the medical and other expenses section of Mr As policy to see what 
cover it provides. It says:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 5 and 6 for any costs 
for the following that are as a result of you being unexpectedly injured or ill during your trip.
1. Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment and ambulance costs. (You are 
covered up to 250 for emergency dental treatment, as long as it is to immediately
relieve pain only).
The policy doesnt define what Mapfre means by emergency, so Ive taken the ordinary and 
natural meaning of the word. This is generally something dangerous or serious, which 
happens suddenly and which needs an urgent response. 
Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence from Mr As treating optician abroad. I 
can see two appointments are listed. The first appointment happened following Mr As fall 
and the optician has included a diagnosis. The optician stated: removal of  object in left 
eye as a result of fall. During the follow-up visit, it seems photos of Mr As eyes were taken 
to check for any other objects in his eyes.
Mapfre agreed to cover these costs as emergency medical expenses and I think this was a 
fair and appropriate response. I think removing an object from Mr As eye and investigating 
whether there were any further objects inside was urgent and needed to be investigated as 
an emergency. Thats because his sight couldve potentially been at risk.
But I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr As new glasses should be treated as an 
emergency medical expense. While I appreciate Mr A needs glasses to see clearly and to 
correct his vision, I dont think him being without them was potentially life-threatening or 
needed an urgent response. So I dont think Mapfre needs to pay for Mr As new glasses 
under this section of the policy.
Mapfre let Mr A know that it could consider a claim for the cost of his broken glasses under 
the baggage section of the policy. So Ive looked at this part of the insurance contract. This 
says:
We will pay for the following
After taking off an amount for wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse you for an 
item that you own that you have lost or that has been damaged or stolen.
I think the policy is clear that it only covers the damaged item - in this case, Mr As broken 
glasses. It also sets out in the key information section that the policy doesnt provide new 
for old cover. The policy is intended to put a policyholder in the position they were in 
immediately before the loss or damage. 
In this case, Ive seen a copy of the receipt for Mr As damaged glasses. These did cost less 
than the applicable policy excess of £200. The policy defines what it means by an excess. It 
says:
Under most sections of this policy you have to pay the first part of any claim. This is called 
an excess. This will apply to each person claiming and to each incident and to each section 
of the policy you claim under. This amount is shown under each of the sections where it 
applies.I think the policy clearly explains how and when an excess will be applied to a claim. In this 
case, because the cost of Mr As broken glasses was less than the excess amount set out in 
the table of benefits, there simply wasnt anything for Mapfre to pay under this section of the 
policy.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr A because hes been left out of pocket, Im satisfied 
Mapfre has settled his claim fairly. So Im not telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman