DRN-3829368
The complaint
J, a charity, is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after 
it made a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Js supplier made a claim against it for unpaid charges. J sought assistance under its legal 
expenses policy to defend the claim. DAS asked panel solicitors whether the defence would 
have reasonable prospects of success. Their view was it didnt.  In April 2021 J obtained 
counsels opinion which found the defence claim would enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success. But the opinion said the suppliers power to charge was derived from statute and 
not contract and there is no contract between the Claimant and the Defendant. 
DAS said the claim was being considered under the contract disputes section of the policy. 
As counsel had concluded the matter arose from statutory rather than contractual rights it 
didnt believe an insured event under the policy had taken place. It turned down the claim on 
that basis. A complaint about that decision has previously been considered by our service. 
Our investigator thought DAS acted fairly. That complaint is closed. 
In December 2021 J provided a fresh counsels opinion which said there was a contractual 
dispute between J and its supplier; counsel concluded the claim is an insured event and is 
covered by the policy.  DAS asked a different panel firm to consider that further. 
In March 2022 J made a further complaint because it was unhappy with lack of progress on 
the matter. Our investigator issued his view in August 2022. He was satisfied J had now 
shown an insured event under the policy had taken place. He thought if DAS wanted to 
challenge the legal advice J obtained it should have obtained its own counsels opinion. He 
said DAS should either accept and progress the claim under the terms of the policy or obtain 
an alternative counsels opinion if it wanted to dispute those obtained by J. And he said it 
should pay J £200 to recognise the inconvenience it had been caused.  
DAS agreed to the suggested compensation. And it confirmed panel solicitors would instruct 
counsel to provide an opinion. However, as there were then further delays in action being 
taken, J asked for an Ombudsman to review matters. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I appreciate this matter has been ongoing for some time. However, in this decision Im 
considering what happened after J made a fresh complaint to us in February 2022. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of its legal expenses policy and I dont think its in dispute 
the only part of cover this claim could potentially fall under is the contract disputes section. 
And the onus is on J to show an insured event has taken place. 
I think its now done that because its obtained a properly reasoned counsels opinion which 
unequivocally concludes there is a contractual dispute and the terms of the policy are met. If 
DAS wanted to challenge that I agree it should have sought an alternative counsels opinion 
rather than referring the matter to panel solicitors for them to review. 
But Im not sure thats a current issue because the panel firm said in June 2022 we consider 
the claim against the policyholder by the third party to be one under breach of contract, 
specifically a deemed contract and not one of which arises under statute. However, it said 
further investigations would be necessary before confirming an assessment of prospects and 
that counsels opinion would be sought on this. 
The policy requires that reasonable prospects exist for any claim. It says that means for 
civil cases, the prospects that the Insured Person willmake a successful defencemust 
be at least 51%. In this case J did obtain counsels opinion (in April 2021) which confirmed 
the defence of the claim met that term. That opinion was provided to the panel solicitors who 
initially considered the claim and they were satisfied it could be relied on. 
However, when the current panel firm asked J for a copy of the advice in March 2022 J 
indicated it wasnt prepared to provide this prior to DAS having accepted the claim. Its this 
issue which appears to have now prevented the claim moving forward and a further 
counsels opinion on prospects being obtained. 
Ive thought about whether there was more DAS should have done to assist with this issue; 
for example whether it should have provided a copy of the prospects assessment with its 
instructions to the solicitor. But Im not clear whether DAS had a copy of that opinion. The 
original panel solicitors refer to it being passed to them but I cant see any record of that 
contact on the file DAS provided. And while J has suggested DAS and the original panel firm 
are the same business that isnt the case; they have separate company registrations and 
different regulators. 
In any event at the point the matter was referred to the new panel firm some months had 
passed since the original prospects assessment was completed. Given the requirement for a 
claim to have reasonable prospects of success is an ongoing one I think DAS would have 
been entitled to ask for a revised assessment at that point to check nothing had changed. In 
fact I can see in correspondence with us J said it would be happy to obtain a revised 
assessment if that was required. 
But that hasnt happened and matters appear to have reached an impasse, possibly caused 
by confusion over terminology. As Ive said it no longer appears to be in dispute an insured 
event has taken place as both counsel and the panel firm are in agreement on this. So the 
claim is one that Js policy would cover; the question is whether the requirement it enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success has been met. And although that was previously 
confirmed, as Ive said, I think DAS is entitled to seek an up to date assessment on this 
before confirming cover (particularly as I understand the underlying legal case has now 
moved on). Ive thought about what the right way to resolve this complaint is. Im mindful of the fact that 
its not our role to become involved with ongoing claims handling. I think issues that have 
arisen after our investigator issued his view will need to form part of a fresh complaint if J is 
unhappy with what happened since then. But I do need to take into account what the current 
situation with the claim is in order to make directions for the resolution of this complaint that 
are both practical and achievable.
I agree with our investigator there have been some failings in the period Im considering 
which its reasonable to say DAS is responsible for. For example, if it wanted to challenge 
the opinion on policy coverage J had obtained it should have sought an alternative counsels 
opinion on this. But I think £200 is the right amount to recognise the inconvenience that 
caused J and DAS has agreed to pay that.
The outstanding issue is whether the claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success. J did 
obtain a positive opinion on that but its now nearly two years old and I think it would be 
reasonable for an updated opinion to be obtained. If DAS is prepared to accept that from Js 
counsel it should obtain and pay for that. If it isnt then it will need to obtain and pay for an 
opinion from an alternative counsel. 
If prospects for the claim are then confirmed DAS will need to cover it in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It will also need to consider what cover should 
be provided for legal costs J has already incurred. If J is unhappy with the decisions that 
DAS then makes then thats something it could raise as part of a fresh complaint. 
DAS will also need to pay J £200 if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman