DRN-3572268
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (trading as 
Ulster Bank) didnt update its information when requested causing it inconvenience.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by one of its directors, Mr P. 
What happened
Mr P told us:
Ulster bank (Ulster) sent letters requesting information to the incorrect address, 
despite being notified of a change of address more than twelve months earlier.
A data protection breach had occurred as the letters werent returned to the bank. 
Ulster admitted their error but didnt do enough to put things right.
When Ulster didnt get a response to the letters, it suspended Ts account causing 
salary and direct debit payments to be missed.
Since the complaint had been brought to this service, there had been another error 
by the bank as a request for information had been sent to a director, not the 
requested contact.
Ulster told us:
It acknowledged it didnt update Ts business address when requested, which meant 
three letters were sent to the wrong address.
It suspended Ts account to comply with its regulatory obligations as it needed 
information from the business which hadnt been received  albeit because the 
requests had been sent to the wrong address.
It had apologised to T and offered £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
The second error had been caused because the system had been reset when the 
bank received the information from T. It had apologised to T and explained how the 
error had taken place and had updated the system accordingly. 
Our investigator thought £500 for the initial error was enough to put things right. She said the 
salary payments had been made as they would normally, and that missed direct debits were 
set up shortly after the error had occurred and no unpaid charges had occurred. So whilst 
she recognised that T had been caused inconvenience, she felt the bank had done enough 
to put things right. However, she said that because a further error had occurred causing T to 
contact the bank again, Ulster should increase its compensation by a further £100 to £600 in 
total.
Ulster agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Mr P didnt. He thought this wasnt 
enough compensation to put things right and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed by either party that Ulster caused errors by not updating Ts business 
address and then sending a follow-up letter to the wrong business contact. So Ill focus my 
decision on the key dispute here, which is whether £500 compensation for the original error 
plus the investigators recommendation of a further £100 for the second error is enough to 
put things right. I think that is a fair way to resolve things, and Ill explain why. 
The banks error meant that three letters were sent to the incorrect address in October, 
November, and December 2021. Mr P says this was a data breach by the bank and hes 
concerned about the information which a third-party may have been able to access. 
However, Ive seen copies of the banks internal records which show the mail was 
returned/undelivered, so I dont think the information was accessed by a third-party. Ive also 
seen a copy of the letters and Im satisfied there wasnt any information within the letters 
which posed a risk to T. I recognise the letters contained the name of one of Ts directors, 
however this is publicly available information, so I cant reasonably say this had a 
substantive impact on T.
Mr P says that if the letters were returned to Ulster, then it was negligent to send further 
correspondence. But I dont agree. Its usual practice for a bank to send several notifications 
to a customer in case there has been an issue i.e. with the postal delivery or a temporary 
address move. So I think it was reasonable for Ulster to make several attempts to contact T 
before it took action to limit the bank account.
I appreciate this has caused frustration for T and I recognise Mr Ps concerns, but Ulster has 
accepted it made a mistake and apologised for the error. The bank has also shown evidence 
that its updated its records so Im satisfied the bank has resolved this in the manner we 
would expect. 
However, I recognise that the banks error had a knock-on effect for T. As the letters were 
sent to the wrong address, T wasnt aware that Ulster had asked for information to update its 
systems. This meant the bank suspended Ts account for four days from 14 to 17 December 
2021. Mr P says Ts direct debits and payroll were affected by the banks error which caused 
inconvenience. I dont dispute thats the case here, but Ive seen that for the two direct debits 
that were missed, double payments were made in January 2022. And I havent seen any 
evidence of any charges being made by T in relation to either of these payments.
Mr P says that the £500 compensation offered by Ulster wasnt enough to cover the 
inconvenience caused to T. He says that T was caused inconvenience because although the 
wage payments were made, these had to be done by cheque rather than by BACS as usual. 
Mr P says this meant extra time and cost, however as a service we dont make awards 
based on hourly rates, and he hasnt given us any evidence to show any other associated 
costs. Furthermore, where an error takes place, we would expect a complainant to mitigate 
any losses, which in this case T did by making the wage payments by cheque. So based on 
all the evidence Ive seen, I think the £500 compensation was enough to put this part of the 
complaint right. 
That being said, I can see that there was a further issue with Ts letter being sent to the 
wrong contact. Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and Ulster 
has apologised and explained that this error occurred in the process of resolving the issue 
with Ts registered address. Although there was minimal impact here as the letter was sent 
to another of Ts directors, I can see this caused further inconvenience as Mr P had to contact the bank again after being told Ts records were now correct. Therefore I think Ulster 
should pay T a further £100 compensation as Ts contacts werent updated correctly when 
the bank corrected the address error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay T £600 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman