DRN-3064488
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc favoured the joint mortgagor his wife 
when she got an Approval in Principle (AIP) and access to a mortgage adviser, but he 
didnt. Mr K wanted NatWest to treat both parties the same and to have given him the same 
opportunity as Mrs K.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a mortgage with NatWest on the former family home from 2014. Mr and 
Mrs K separated in 2015 with Mrs K remaining in the property and were in a dispute about a 
financial settlement which has been the subject of proceedings before the family courts. An 
order in those family proceedings was made in August 2017 when the judge ordered that the 
family home be sold and that there was to be a 50/50 split of the proceeds. Under that order, 
Mrs K was to be responsible for the mortgage in the meantime. But that order didnt prove 
capable of implementation. There appears to have been a title defect which prevented the 
house being sold. The dispute came before the courts on several subsequent occasions 
culminating with a further order made on 13 July 2021 transferring title of the property into 
Mrs Ks sole name on the basis that she paid a lump sum of £179.592 to Mr K and secured 
his release from the mortgage.
Previously, the mortgage account had been in arrears and NatWest obtained an Order for 
Possession in August 2017. Mrs K then was making the mortgage payments under the court 
order but from February 2019 made reduced payments towards the mortgage which resulted 
in increased arrears.
Mr K enquired from NatWest as to a possible solution of him buying the property and 
transferring the mortgage into his sole name. NatWest said that its criteria would be:
- Both parties to agree to the transfer of title
- The arrears need to be repaid in full prior to applying for the transfer
- Due to the previous arrears, the mortgage must remain up to date with regular
   payments due for a period of six months after the arrears have been repaid
- The remaining party would need to be able to demonstrate affordability
NatWest said that because of the arrears, it was unable to progress a transfer of title 
application for Mr K. But at that stage Mr K discovered that NatWest had issued Mrs K with 
an AIP dated 27 July 2020. Mr K, who felt that NatWest was discriminating against him, 
complained. NatWest set up an appointment with a mortgage advisor but then cancelled it 
without notice to Mr K. After a further complaint, NatWest apologised for cancelling the 
appointment and offered Mr K £100 for the trouble and upset that had caused. NatWest 
would not disclose to Mr K why they gave Mrs K an AIP but said that any mortgage 
application would be subject to the same criteria as they stated to Mr K and that an AIP was 
only an indication and not a commitment to lend. It seems that since then that in June 2021 
in advance of the further court hearing, that NatWest issued Mrs K with a further AIP and 
indicated that it would be prepared to consider her transfer of title request.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Mr K 
could have contacted NatWest about clearing the arrears in order to submit his own transfer 
of title request and obtain an AIP.
Mr K disagreed saying in summary that both he and Mrs K were both in arrears on the 
mortgage but were treated differently. Mrs K got an appointment and an AIP which she was 
able to submit to court whereas he was refused an appointment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint against NatWest relates to the treatment of Mr K a joint borrower with Mrs K. 
Mr K says that he was treated differently to Mrs K in that whereas NatWest provided an AIP 
to Mrs K, it refused that opportunity to him. Mr K makes the point that this different treatment 
of him led to his financial detriment in the matrimonial proceedings. To decide on that point, 
Ive had to look at the relevant court judgements.
 
I have to consider several questions. Firstly, was Mr K treated differently than Mrs K by 
NatWest and if so, was this fair and if not, what compensation should be awarded. Although 
Mr and Mrs K were joint borrowers with NatWest, the court order of August 2017 had the 
effect of treating them differently in respect of the repayments of the mortgage and indeed 
other outgoings on the property. Paragraph 9 of that order says:
9. Payment of mortgage and outgoings on property
The applicant (Mrs K ) shall discharge as and when each payment becomes due, be solely 
responsible for and in any event indemnify the respondent (Mr K) against:
a. all future interest and capital repayments due in respect of the mortgage;
b. all reasonable sums due in respect of council tax , utilities (including but not limited to 
gas, electricity,water and telephone accounts), and buildings and contents insurance 
premiums in respect of the family home.
The effect of that order seems to me to have divided and altered the responsibility of 
performing the terms of the mortgage agreement making Mrs K who occupied the former 
matrimonial home solely responsible for payment of the mortgage whilst requiring her to 
indemnify Mr K for non-payment. That switching of responsibility by the court would 
inevitably have had some knock-on effect on how NatWest dealt with the borrowers as it 
gave sole responsibility to make payment to Mrs K. To that extent I can understand why 
during the period between the court orders that NatWest was more engaged with Mrs K than 
Mr K as a result of this differentiation.
Mr K and Mrs K were joint borrowers who would be expected to be treated similarly. But the 
reality on the ground was that Mr K hadnt been living in the property for some time and the 
court had made Mrs K solely responsible for repayment of the mortgage from 2017. So, I 
dont consider it unfair that NatWest may have treated their cases differently. In this case it 
issued two AIPs to Mrs K who was living in the house and under the court order solely 
responsible for the mortgage not to Mr K. But I would consider it unfair if the actions of 
NatWest resulted in financial loss to Mr K.
     
At the heart of this complaint is Mr Ks belief that NatWests different treatment of himself 
and Mrs K resulted in a financial loss to him in the matrimonial proceedings between himself 
and Mrs K. So as to consider that point, Ive looked at a number of orders related to the dispute between Mr and Mrs K about the former family home and in particular the judgement 
delivered in the family court on 13 July 2021. I note in her judgement that the judge is quite 
clear to emphasise that the division of the matrimonial property was already decided in the 
family court in August 2017. At paragraph 13 she says: My aim is to uphold the fundamental 
decision-making that (the previous judge) made, but to resolve the difficulties in the practical 
implementation of that order. These practical difficulties were related to problems with title 
that affected the marketability of the property so that several years later the property hadnt 
been sold.
At paragraph 28 the judge says that she has two potential purchasers of the property, Mr K 
or Mrs K. She notes that Mr K wants to vary the shares 65/35 in his favour and that Mrs K 
wants to maintain the 50/50 split. At paragraph 30 the Judge says that Mr K is looking for a 
variation of the 50% shares and that she has no power to do that. At paragraph 31 the judge 
says that the offer by Mrs K to buy the property is a sensible way forward and that Mr K 
will be in no worse position than under the terms of the 2017 order. The following 
paragraphs are taken up with what figures are to be used to decide on the value of the 
property and at paragraph 48, the Judge rules that Mrs K is to pay Mr K £179,592.
At paragraph 50 the judge then turns to whether this can be paid by Mrs K. At this point the 
judge refers to the AIP as evidence that Mrs K is likely to get a mortgage and that the 
division of the asset which she is proposing is likely to be effective.
Mr Ks point is that NatWest dealings with Mrs K and not with him were to his financial 
disadvantage as expressed in the final court order. I dont believe so. In the judges 
sequence of reasoning the AIP only features when the judge has decided on the split of the 
assets. It is then that she turns to whether Mrs Ks offer is feasible. In terms of the effect on 
Mr K at paragraph 57 she says:
Mr K will be in no worse a position; he will be in an identical position. In fact,
in terms of the money, given that time has moved on, he will be in a better position than he
would have been in under Judge B's order, on the basis that he will share in the benefit
that the mortgage has reduced over the course of these four years. 
Clearly the judge does not see any financial detriment to Mr K in coming to her decision. Its 
not my role to review that case but must accept the Courts reasoning and decision. 
Although I accept that Mr K was treated differently than Mrs K by NatWest, in the sequence 
of the Judges reasoning, that doesnt appear to have influenced her decision that Mrs Ks 
offer to buy the property on a 50/50 split was the preferred offer. But even if it had, the judge 
held that the eventual split wasnt to Mr Ks financial detriment. So, I cant fairly say that Mr K 
suffered a financial loss because of NatWests actions. 
I accept that Mr K was treated differently than Mrs K by NatWest but it seems to me that the 
inevitable result of the order of 2017 whereby Mrs K was the occupant of the house and 
solely responsible for the mortgage payments meant that the parties could no longer be 
treated simply as if they were in the same position and as if the 2017 order hadnt been 
made. So, I dont consider it unfair that the parties were to an extent treated differently and 
that Mr K who wasnt living in the property and not solely responsible for the mortgage 
wasnt given an appointment to explore an AIP whereas Mrs K was. But, Im also of the view 
that any different treatment of Mr K by NatWest didnt result in any financial loss to him. 
Thats clear from the judgement in 2021. I accept that it was unfair for NatWest to give Me K 
an appointment and then cancel it and accept that the compensation offered of £100 was 
appropriate. But for the reasons set out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman