DRN-2593572
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limited because he believes the 
value of the third-party claim it settled on his motor insurance policy was unfair.
What happened
A named driver on Mr Bs policy was driving his car and had a crash. Mr B accepted that the 
named driver was at fault. But when the third-party insurer sent settlement details to Calpe, 
Mr B felt they were excessive. The car was deemed a total loss due to necessary repairs, 
but Mr B felt the cost of repairing damage unrelated to the accident had been included. He 
noted the cost of repairing his car, which he felt was similarly damaged, was much less. 
Before deciding to settle the third-party claim Calpes engineer considered the report on the 
third-party damage, and he reviewed it again later after Mr B complained. The engineer felt 
the values were reasonable, that if they included the cost of non-accident damage, this was 
likely minor. He said that it was reasonable to view the car as a total loss as it was likely that, 
if stripped for repair, more damage to the car would be found. The third-party costs were 
more than the policy excess of £3,000 so Calpe wasnt minded to revise its decision to ask 
Mr B to pay his £3,000 excess. Mr B complained to us.
Our investigator felt Calpe had acted fairly and reasonably in respect of assessing and 
settling the third-party damage. She explained that Mr Bs policy required him to pay an 
excess for any claim. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B said he didnt think the outcome was fair. He said no reasonable person would think it 
was fair to pay £3,000 (his excess) given, what he felt was, such limited damage to the front 
of the other car. Mr B said he was unclear why the discovery of further damage found (if the 
car was stripped for repair) would be his responsibility. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate its disappointing for Mr B to be asked to pay such a large amount of money. But 
he arranged a policy with Calpe to cover him for damage caused to third-parties and for/by 
fire and theft, which included a £3,000 excess. And the policy explains this excess is payable 
against all areas of cover. As Calpe settled a third-party damage claim against Mr Bs policy, 
in the sum of over £5,000, Mr B is obliged, under the policy, to pay Calpe the excess.
I understand Mr B thinks the settlement sum Calpe paid was excessive and/or may have 
taken into account damage to the other car which wasnt accident related. But that is not a 
view shared by Calpes engineer. I note the engineer: 
verified the costs; 
confirmed it was appropriate, in his view, for the claim to be dealt with as one of total loss 
(meaning it wasnt economical to repair the other car); and 
determined that if any uninsured damage had been taken into account this would have 
had a negligible impact on the total loss decision. In other words the decision wouldnt 
have been any different even without that uninsured damage being factored in. 
I havent seen any evidence to contradict this from a similarly qualified expert. 
I can understand that Mr B thinks damage to his car was similar but cost less  but that 
doesnt mean the third-party insurers engineers assessment, as verified by Calpes 
engineer, of what it would have cost to fix its policyholders car, was wrong. That was initially 
assessed at nearly £4,000, with the engineer placing a pre-accident value on the car of only 
£5,400. Those sums alone would be sufficient for an insurer to reasonably view the car as a 
total loss. 
But there was the prospect of further damage to factor in as well. The likelihood of further 
damage being found once the car is stripped for repair has to be taken into account. Thats 
because when cars collide damage can be caused that isnt immediately visible on an initial 
engineers inspection (which is usually non-invasive). So an engineer will consider, given 
things like the type of car and the point of impact, whether its likely there might be other, as 
yet undiscovered, damage present, likely caused by the accident. Any additional damage 
found would increase the cost of repair. So, particularly where the known cost of repair for 
damage which can be seen already is approaching the pre-accident value of the car, an 
insurer wont want to start repairs if it seems likely that this work will uncover more damage. 
Rather, in order to mitigate their outlay, most insurers, relying on the engineers opinion in 
this respect, will settle the claim for the pre-accident value of the car (also known as total 
loss). Generally thats not seen as unreasonable. 
On this occasion, Im satisfied Calpe acted fairly and reasonably. Im not persuaded to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman