DRN-3805962
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided when trying to apply for a business bank account 
with Metro Bank PLC. Mr S also complains that Metro Bank declined his application. 
What happened
Metro Bank advised Mr S the best time to complete a business bank account application at a 
branch that accepts walk in appointments was at the start the working day. On 15 March 
2022 Mr S visited a branch of Metro Bank to apply for a new business bank account. But due 
to the number of other customers in branch, Mr S wasnt seen during his visit. Metro Bank 
says Mr S visited in the afternoon. 
Mr S visited another Metro Bank branch on 18 March 2022 and a business bank account 
application was processed. The application was declined. Metro Banks explained it had 
previously taken the decision to close a personal account in Mr S name. As a result, Metro 
Bank said it wasnt able to approve a business bank account application for Mr S. 
Mr S complained and Metro Bank issued a final response. Metro Bank apologised that Mr S 
hadnt been offered the option of booking an appointment. But Metro Bank didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly by declining the business bank account application.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint and said they thought Metro Bank 
had dealt with it fairly. Mr S asked to appeal and said he hadnt been told why Metro Bank 
had issued a notice to close his old account and remained of the view it had treated him 
unfairly. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has told us he was advised to visit a certain branch to complete the business account 
application but when he arrived there were no advisors available. Ive looked at the emails 
between Mr S and Metro Bank and can see the business noted that the branch in question 
was quietest in the mornings, between 9 and 10am. Mr S visited in the afternoon, at which 
point there was no advisor available to complete the business account application. I 
understand Mr S paid for a taxi to attend the branch, but Metro Bank advised it was a walk in 
service and that its not always possible to open business bank accounts during busy times. 
I note Mr S was subsequently able to make an appointment to complete a business bank 
account application to be considered at another branch. Im satisfied thats fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr S business bank account was declined because Metro Bank had taken the decision to 
close a personal account in his name in 2019. Metro Banks final response explains it wasnt 
able to approve a business bank account application in the circumstances. Businesses are 
free to decide how to assess an application. Metro Bank wasnt obliged to approve Mr S 
application. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent seen any evidence that shows Metro 
Bank misled him or acted unfairly when it took the decision to decline his business bank 
account application. 
Mr S has told us he wanted Metro Bank to explain why it issued the notice to close his 
personal account in 2019. But to close an account Metro Bank needed to give written notice 
of its intention. Metro Banks letter dated 29 May 2019 explains that it would close his 
account in 60 days and that it wouldnt look to offer new banking services in the future. Metro 
Bank retained a record of its decision to close Mr S account and took this into account when 
assessing his business account application earlier this year. I havent been persuaded that 
Metro Bank acted unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Metro Bank dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman