DRN-2481915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS5) 
caused delays whilst they were attempting to redeem their mortgage. This led to 
unnecessary costs and interest being added to the balance, as well as legal action being 
taking unfairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had an interest only mortgage with MAS5, which was redeemed in October 
2021. The mortgage term ended in 2014, but as a result of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, 
MAS5 offered extensions to the term until May 2018.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs D complained to MAS5 about the fees and charges that had been added 
to the mortgage balance, as well as the interest rate that had been applied to the mortgage 
over the term. Our service is considering that complaint separately.
In August 2019, MAS5 started legal action to take possession of the property, and a 
possession order was granted by the courts in November 2019.
Mr and Mrs D complained to MAS5 about how theyd handled things. They were unhappy 
that MAS5 had not responded to their requests for a redemption figure for the mortgage, and 
as a result had not been able to repay the mortgage, incurring additional interest and 
charges. They didnt think it was reasonable of MAS5 to continue to take legal action whilst 
there was an ongoing complaint with our service disputing the mortgage balance. 
MAS5 issued their final response letter in December 2019. They said that to date they hadnt 
received an offer of payment for the mortgage from Mr and Mrs D. They said legal action 
had started as the mortgage term had ended in August 2014, and theyd provided Mr and 
Mrs D with sufficient time to arrange redemption of the mortgage. They said they had 
informed Mr and Mrs D of the possibility of legal action and the associated implications of 
this, but the mortgage still hadnt been redeemed. 
Mr and Mrs D asked our service to look into the complaint. Our investigator considered 
things, and explained that whilst she thought MAS5 could have been clearer at times, she 
didnt think overall that Mr and Mrs D had been treated unfairly.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed, and so the complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst what Ive set out in the section above is only a summary of the events that are being 
complained about, I want to reassure both parties that Ive considered their extensive 
submissions carefully before issuing this decision. I mean no discourtesy by not referring to 
each and every point made by both parties, rather I will focus in this decision on what I 
believe to be the crux of the complaint, and what I think an overall fair outcome would be. Im 
also aware that Mr and Mrs D have complained more recently about more recent events. For 
clarity, this decision will only cover Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about events that led up to 
MAS5 issuing their final response letter in December 2019.
Redemption of the mortgage
MAS5 have said that they hadnt received any redemption requests from Mr and Mrs D since 
they made their previous complaint about the outstanding balance. Mr and Mrs D have sent 
our service copies of the letters they sent to MAS5 by fax asking for information about what 
they owed. However, Mr and Mrs D were not simply asking for a redemption statement so 
they could settle what was owed, they wanted to know what the balance was, excluding the 
amounts that were in dispute under their other complaint. I havent seen any evidence 
provided by either party that Mr and Mrs D asked MAS5 for a redemption statement during 
the period between when they complained about the outstanding balance, and MAS5 issuing 
their final response letter in December 2019. 
Ive seen notes of a conversation that took place in May 2019 between Mr D and MAS5. But 
in this conversation Mr D explained he wanted to wait until the outcome of the other 
complaint that was with our service before he redeemed the mortgage. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs D attempted to redeem the mortgage, and were 
prevented from doing so by MAS5. 
Mr and Mrs D chose not to make all of their monthly payments whilst these disputes were 
ongoing, and that resulted in the overall balance increasing as a result of additional interest 
and charges. I agree with the investigator that MAS5 could have responded to Mr and Mrs 
Ds requests more clearly. But Mr and Mrs D were aware of the balance of their mortgage 
from previous enquiries theyd made which led to the initial dispute in the first place. MAS5 
also wrote to them repeatedly explaining how much was owed, and asking Mr and Mrs D to 
contact them about their plans. 
There was nothing preventing Mr and Mrs D from making lump sum payments to the 
mortgage to prevent further interest being charged whilst their complaint was being 
investigated. Overall, Im not persuaded that the balance remaining unpaid, and therefore 
increasing, was a result of unfair action by MAS5 and the way they were handling the 
mortgage account at that time.
Taking legal action unfairly
Whilst our service was considering Mr and Mrs Ds previous complaint, MAS5 put litigation in 
relation to their mortgage account on hold. The complaint was closed at our service in July 
2019, and as the outstanding balance remained outstanding MAS5 started legal action again 
in August 2019. 
Based on what MAS5 knew at the time, I dont think that was unreasonable. The mortgage 
was over a year past its extended term without being repaid. Mr and Mrs D had said they 
had the means to repay the mortgage, but were choosing not to do so until the complaint 
was resolved. After the complaint was resolved, MAS5 tried to contact Mr and Mrs D by 
phone and by letter but they didnt receive a response. All things considered, I dont think it 
was unfair of them to start the legal action again.
I appreciate Mr D did then write to MAS5 to inform them he had been in hospital. He also 
said he was planning to sell the property and downsize after theyd completed some 
renovations. MAS5 tried calling him to discuss his situation and his plans but were unable to 
get through. In September 2019 MAS5 did have discussions with Mr D about his plans for 
moving, but confirmed that unless there were specific timeframes around expected 
completion, or evidence that the house was on the market, then they wouldnt put the legal 
action on hold again. 
Our service re-opened Mr and Mrs Ds previous complaint as theyd asked for a final 
decision. MAS5 said it wouldnt be in Mr and Mrs Ds interests to put legal action back on 
hold as the process was already underway and costs had already been incurred. Mr and 
Mrs D were no longer making their mortgage payments and the outstanding balance was 
increasing each month. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs D were disputing some of the costs added to the balance, they had the means to repay the balance, but had said they were 
choosing not to. As a result, I dont think it was unreasonable for MAS5 to continue with the 
legal action, which ultimately led to the courts issuing an order for possession in November 
2019.
Other customer service issues
Mr and Mrs D have also raised some other concerns about how it was difficult to 
communicate with MAS5, and also that they were confused about who the lenders of the 
mortgage were as the court papers mentioned The Co-operative Bank. As Ive said above, I 
do think MAS5 could have responded to some of Mr and Mrs Ds correspondence more 
clearly at times. But looking at the whole contact history from what both parties have 
provided, Im satisfied that MAS5 was in regular contact with Mr and Mrs D, and replied to 
their faxes by letter. They also tried to call them on the phone on several occasions to 
discuss things. So I dont think theyve acted unfairly.
MAS5 are Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage lender, but they are part of The Co-operative Bank 
group. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs D may have been confused by this, Im not satisfied 
MAS5 need to do anything to put that right.
Summary
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, Im not 
persuaded MAS5 have treated them unfairly. I do acknowledge that Mr and Mrs D have 
been through very difficult times in recent years, but ultimately, they needed to repay their 
mortgage which had already been extended to May 2018. They had the means to do so, but 
they were choosing not to pay. As a result, Im not satisfied MAS5 treated them unfairly.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman