DRN-1320012
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in May 2002. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a plan known as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP 
can be split into three sections: Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life 
Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC). Mr and Mrs H has complained about the MPPI cover 
so Ive only looked at the sale of this part of the package in this decision. They say the policy 
wasnt optional  they had to buy the policy in order to get the mortgage. They say it wasnt 
suitable and it wasnt explained to them at the time.
The policy cost just over £40 each month and it covered Mr H only in the event he wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment  and it wouldve provided a monthly 
benefit of £661.11 for up to 24 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Having considered everything, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-
sold and Ill explain why.
I think its likely Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if they cant remember this 
given how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I dont 
think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However, I do know that the 
way MPPI was presented in 2002 showed that it was optional, and that a customer needed 
to agree for a policy to be set up.
Mr and Mrs H say it wasnt clear the policy was optional. And, if itd been clear, they wouldnt 
have taken it out. But their recollections of the sale arent detailed and so I havent been able 
to understand how they werent given a choice to have the policy by Halifax. Taking this into 
account along with documentation Ive seen in relation to other sales around this time, and 
from what I know about how these sales were conducted, Im satisfied the policy was 
optional and I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a choice about the 
MPPI.Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them and, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  
he told us he was employed and in good health  so he wouldnt have been affected by 
limitations or exclusions in connection with existing health conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances such as being self-employed.
And they seem to have had a need for the cover. I say this because Mr H told us he had no 
occupational sick pay in the event he wasnt working  he only had the benefit of statutory 
sick pay. Yet a mortgage is a significant financial commitment  and the consequences of 
defaulting on a mortgage can be very serious. So, it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs H 
had an interest in protecting their repayments. Overall, I think they had a need for the policy 
and could have benefited from it. So, it was reasonable of Halifax to recommend it to them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out to protect themselves  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything else Mr and Mrs H and their representative have said but these 
points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman