DRN-3333692
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) credited a 
refund to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard. In October 2016, the debt was £29,860.10. Barclaycard issued a 
Notice of Default and the debt was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA). In July 2020, 
Barclaycard wrote to Mr B to tell him that after a review of operating procedures, theyd 
agreed to refund interest and default fees of £12,624.05. This was to be transferred to Mr Bs 
debt with the DCA  to reduce his debt with them.
Mr B complained. He said the money should be paid to him. He was in financial difficulty and 
needed the money for his business. He said Barclaycard couldnt evidence the notice of 
assignment of the debt, nor the Consumer Credit Agreement for it. He said that by 
transferring the debt to the DCA, Barclaycard relinquished all rights to it. He said it wasnt fair 
to reduce the debt and the money was due to him personally.
Barclaycard said the refund was in respect of the interest and fees applied to Mr Bs account 
between April 2014 and March 2019. The refund was applied to Mr Bs debt with the DCA. 
They provided Mr B with the Notice of Default issued to him in October 2016 before the debt 
was transferred to the DCA  and said that this gave them the right to do so. They also sent 
Mr B statements of his Barclaycard account. They apologised for not dealing with his 
complaint in a timely way and for not responding to his requests for a copy of the credit 
agreement or letter of assignment. For this, they offered compensation of £100  which Mr B 
didnt accept.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she could only look at what 
Barclaycard had done and couldnt comment on the actions of the DCA. Barclaycard only 
needed to keep documents for six years  and so they wouldnt have the CCA agreement. 
She said Mr B still owed the money  albeit to the DCA. In the eyes of the bank, the debt 
was still enforceable.  By applying the refund to the debt, Barclaycard were placing Mr B 
back in the position he wouldve been in had the interest and fees not been applied. So  he 
benefited by the amount of the refund. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is about the actions of Barclaycard  and I can only comment on what 
Barclaycard have done. If Mr B wishes to make a complaint about the DCA, he should 
approach them.
I can see that Mr B had a Barclaycard account for many years. By October 2016, the debt 
was £29,860.10  and Mr B was in financial difficulty. Barclaycard sent him a letter on 28 
October 2016 saying that a default had been registered with the credit reference agencies. 
The letter also said our recoveries team may decide to pass your account to an external 
Debt Collection Agency.and they collect the full amount from you And so  thats what 
happened. The debt was transferred to a DCA in December 2016. Ive seen that in 
Barclaycards records.
In July 2020, Barclaycard wrote to Mr B to say they would refund fees and interest of 
£12,624.05  this was following a review which concluded that Barclaycard didnt meet 
certain standards for assessing customers circumstances and didnt provide them with the 
most appropriate support. Barclaycard told us it was their policy to reduce customers debts 
where these had been transferred to a DCA  including Mr Bs debt.
I note Mr B has asked for a copy of the original CCA agreement for the card and a copy of 
the letter of assignment of the debt to the DCA, neither of which Barclaycard have produced. 
Theyve said these are held by the DCA and Mr B should approach them for a copy. I can 
only comment on Barclaycards actions here  and this does seem a reasonable approach to 
take. And even if there isnt evidence of a CCA agreement or letter of assignment  Mr B 
clearly had a debt with Barclaycard (as shown by the statements and default notice). And the 
debt was clearly transferred to the DCA to act for Barclaycard in its collection (as stated in 
the default notice).
I note also that Mr B doesnt contest that he owes the DCA money  as he told us hes been 
making payments to reduce the debt.
The central point here is that Mr Bs Barclaycard debt was transferred to the DCA. So, he 
owed the debt of £29,860.10 to the DCA. That balance at the DCA included the fees and 
interest of £12,624.05 that was refunded  and therefore, it seems fair and reasonable that 
Barclaycard credited the refund to the debt to reduce it by the same amount. Mr B benefitted 
to the extent of £12,624.05  as his liability to the DCA went down by that amount. I 
acknowledge that Mr B would rather have received the cash  to help his financial situation. 
But equally, it wouldnt seem fair and reasonable for the Barclaycard debt (as transferred to 
the DCA) to have been left outstanding at the higher figure either.
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and will be disappointed by my 
decision. I was sorry to learn of his ongoing financial difficulties. But I wont be asking 
Barclaycard to do anymore here. If Mr B wishes to receive the compensation of £100 offered 
by Barclaycard, he should get in touch with them to arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman