DRN-1413024
The complaint
Mr P has complained about two claims which Great Lakes Insurance SE declined under his 
Home Emergency policy which he holds jointly with Mrs P.
All reference to the insurer, Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr P reported a leak in his hallway. Great Lakes appointed an engineer to 
visit Mr and Mrs Ps home. In order to trace the source of the leak, access needed to be 
gained to below the floor which had tiles covering it. Mr P said the first engineer believed the 
floor to be concrete. As Mr and Mrs Ps policy didnt cover trace and access the engineer 
didnt carry out further works. He also said it was possible the leak was coming from the 
neighbouring property.
Mr P was unhappy with the outcome of the first engineers visit. Great Lakes offered for a 
second engineer to attend. The second engineer also reported access issues to identify the 
course of the leak. He suggested possibly accessing under floorboards from the living room 
next to the hallway. Great Lakes said there was an unacceptable health and safety risk due 
to the small space and the risk of a pipe bursting. It said the scope of works fell outside the 
cover available under the policy and suggested Mr P contact his home insurance policy to 
see if trace and access cover was available. 
Mr P didnt agree and complained to Great Lakes about its handling of the claim and its 
decision. But Great Lakes said it had acted correctly. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
In June 2019 Mr P made a claim as he was having problems with his front door and Great 
Lakes appointed an engineer to attend. The engineer .offered to put a lock on the door 
overnight to make it secure, but Mr P refused. He said the lock was too big and wanted the 
locking system to be replaced in full. 
Great Lakes agreed as a gesture of goodwill to provide a full repair as quoted by a 
locksmith. A month later Mr P reported issues with the same door and an engineer attended. 
The engineer said the issue was with the hinges of the door. The door was in fact a porch 
door. There was an internal secure door to the property from the porch door.
Great Lakes appointed two door fitters to look to obtain replacement hinges to repair the 
door Unfortunately the hinges were obsolete. A third door fitter said there was a crack in the 
lower hinge, but there was no risk of the door coming away and confirmed it was secure. So 
Great Lakes said it wouldnt authorise any further works as the door was functioning and 
there was no emergency present. 
Mr P complained. He wanted Great Lakes to replace the door. But Great Lakes didnt uphold 
Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P asked us to look at both of his complaints. He said that he arranged for a plumber to 
repair the leak and it was discovered that the floor beneath the tiles in the hallway was wood 
and not concrete. So he believes the engineers Great Lakes instructed should have done 
more to access the leak. 
Mr P said his door doesnt close properly. He said various companies told Great Lakes that a 
door replacement was required. He said Great Lakes said it would pay Mr P some 
compensation but he hadnt received any.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted in line with the policy terms in both cases 
when deciding to decline the claims. But in respect of the leak claim, he thought Great Lakes 
could have better managed Mr Ps expectations about the access issue after the first 
engineers visit. He could see Mr P made many calls and he thought Great Lakes could have 
been clearer in its communication with Mr P. For this he recommended Great Lakes pay 
£150 compensation to Mr P.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr P didnt agree. He says the term Great Lakes applied to reject the leak claim doesnt 
apply in his case as he believes it wasnt difficult to access the leak. He says his floor wasnt 
concrete as the engineers reported. 
Mr P says his door still doesnt close properly and isnt secure. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out each complaint under headings below.
Claim for leak in March 2019
Mr and Mrs Ps Home Emergency policy provides cover in the event of a leak, subject to 
exclusions and limitations. The exclusion Great Lakes relied on says:
general exclusion - Any design defect or any repair that is rendered, in our opinion, 
either difficult or impossible due to problems with the access needed to facilitate the 
repair;
The first engineer said that he could hear the leak was coming from underneath the hallway 
and water was sitting above the floor along the neighbouring wall between the two 
properties. He thought it was possible that the leak could be coming from the neighbouring 
property. As Mr Ps floor in the hallway was covered with tiles, the engineer reported that 
accessing underneath the floor would involve breaking through the tiles. As Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy doesnt provide trace and access cover, Great Lakes advised Mr P to contact his 
home insurance provider to see if this cover was available, but Mr P refused. 
To resolve Mr Ps complaint, Great Lakes arranged for a second engineer to attend. The 
second engineer thought the source of the leak was coming from underneath the hallway. 
He said it might be possible to access by lifting a carpet and going under floorboards in the 
living room and crawling underneath in a small space to access pipes under the hallway. 
Great Lakes sought advice from a Health and Safety manager and decided it wasnt safe for 
the engineer to do this. And so Great Lakes maintained its decision and advised Mr P to 
contact his home insurance provider, or arrange for the work to be carried out privately. I think Great Lakes acted reasonably in applying the exclusion. I think it correctly checked for 
health and safety and made a fair assessment when alerted to the difficulties in the access 
needed to facilitate a repair. It followed the advice received; which was that the engineer was 
at risk of getting stuck in the small space, and at risk of harm if the pipe burst while he was 
underneath the floor. As the policy excludes cover for such circumstances, I think Great 
Lakes decision to decline Mr Ps claim was fair. 
Mr P says the floor in his hallway isnt concrete. But I dont think this makes a difference as 
in their opinion the exclusion term still applied   and Mr P didnt have cover for trace and 
access under the Home Emergency policy. 
However, I think Great Lakes could have been clearer in explaining which term it relied on 
when reaching its decision. And I think it might have better managed Mr Ps expectations 
following the first engineers visit. There was some back and forth between Great Lakes and 
Mr P between the first and second engineers visit which I think caused Mr P distress and 
inconvenience. For this I think Great Lakes should pay compensation of £150. Great Lakes 
has agreed.
Claim for door security in June 2019
When the engineer attended, he was able to secure the front door. But he told Mr P not to 
use the door as he may not be able to close it again once opened. The engineer left the door 
secure, which meant Great Lakes obligations under the policy had been fulfilled. However, 
Great Lakes agreed to carry out a full repair of the door as a goodwill gesture. 
When Mr P reported a problem with the door a month later, no issue with the lock was 
identified as it was working. But a door fitter found that the hinges were causing the door to 
stick when closing. Great Lakes notes show that two door fitters tried to obtain replacement 
hinges, but they were no longer available. So Great Lakes instructed a third door fitter to 
look at Mr Ps door. The third door fitter said that the lower hinge was cracked, but that the 
door was safe and left secure, and the lock that had previously been replaced worked. 
I understand that Mr P wanted Great Lakes to replace the door. He says the door isnt 
secure. But as there was no emergency and the door was working so no risk to security, I 
dont think Great Lakes were required to do that. The term of the policy Great Lakes applied 
to this claim says;
Security, Lost keys, Roofing and Pest infestation Cover. We will assist you and pay 
for the call out, labour and parts and materials involved in emergencies relating to the 
security or roofing of your home, a pest infestation and lost keys of your home.
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS - We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in 
connection with: 5. General maintenance work or any system that has not been 
regularly maintained; 8. Any parts or item that may need to be replaced as a result of 
natural wear and tear; 11. Replacing lead, steel or iron pipes, rusting, corrosion, 
general wear and tear and/or gradual deterioration;
From the information available, I think Great Lakes fairly dealt with Mr Ps claim. I think the 
issue with the hinges is down to wear and tear and isnt covered under the Home 
Emergency policy.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Great Lakes decision to 
reject his claims was reasonable and in line with the policy. For not being clear in its 
communication under the leak claim, I think it should compensate Mr P as Ive set out below. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay Mr P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor communication 
caused him. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman