DRN-2842649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly increased 
their pet insurance premium. They are also unhappy with the way RSA handled their 
complaint. 
As the policy was taken in Mr S name only, I will be referring to him in this final decision as 
he was the policyholder. 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 2021, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr S took out a lifetime pet insurance policy to cover his dog. The policy is underwritten by
RSA.
In 2020 Mr S made a complaint to RSA when he realised his premium had significantly
increased over the years. He says that he hadnt noticed the premiums increasing by so
much as they were paid out of a seldom used account. Mr S says that as a renewing
customer he has been financially punished with unfair and disproportionate levels of
increases. He has since cancelled and taken alternative cover with another provider. He is
also unhappy with the way RSA have investigated his complaint.
RSA say the premiums were calculated correctly for the risk presented to them. They have
also pointed to the fact that as Mr S hadnt made a claim on his policy there wasnt anything
stopping him from seeking alternative cover if he was unhappy with the cost.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what their
insurance should cost or how they calculate the risk they are insuring. I would be, in effect,
determining or telling a business how they should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant
say the cost of Mr S policy was too high or he should have been charged less for the policy.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr S took out, will continue to cover any
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. Providing
this cover is expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at
renewal. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Mr S says hes been financially punished as his policy was automatically renewed  I dont
think thats the case. I know hes been able to find a new cheaper policy with another
provider, but I dont think thats surprising  a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy
that was taken out some time ago, and renewed each year since then. The risk for a
business providing pet insurance for a new customer is lower than continuing the cover for
an existing policyholder  so there are legitimate, risk-related reasons for the premium
increasing when a lifetime pet insurance policy is renewed.
A new policy wont provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell usually
be an exclusion period, which limits the risk the insurer is taking  so a new policy will
generally work out cheaper. In addition to that, often a discount incentive will be applied to a
new policy  its a common for insurers to offer this to attract new business.
Insurers will also take into account the possibility a pet may have visited the vet since the
policy started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too.
With some types of insurance, there is a risk, when the policy automatically renews, that a
customer who doesnt shop around or negotiate the price of their policy regularly, might find
theyve been paying more than they might have been had they taken out a new policy. And if
there are no risk related reasons for the premium increasing, we might think the insurer was
treating that customer unfairly. But as Ive explained, in Mr Ss case, there are reasons why
RSA would be taking more risk by offering to renew Mr Ss policy, compared to offering him
a brand new policy. So there are legitimate reasons for the cost to increase.
While Mr S premium has seen a significant increase over the years, I havent seen any
evidence to suggest RSA has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other
policyholder in the same position. So I cant say it has acted unfairly when pricing the policy.
But I do recognise that Mr S premium increased by a lot more than he expected it to  and I
dont think RSA gave him the information he needed when he took the policy out, to
understand this could happen. Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats
likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mr S chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover for his dog. And, as
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some interest in the greater level of
cover it provided. I recognise that its possible he might have gone with another provider
offering a similar policy from the start. But its impossible to know what policy Mr S would
have ended up with  it might have been cheaper, but it might also have been more
expensive. I do think its likely he would have been paying for some pet insurance. And its
unlikely better information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted
in Mr S paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance
tend to operate in a similar way.
Although I do think RSA should have given Mr S better information about the potential policy
costs, I dont think Mr S has lost out. The cost of the policy has increased quite steadily since
the start and I cant hold RSA accountable for him not checking his account sooner. I accept
it might have been a shock to find out what his premium was in 2020, but I think it would
have been less of a shock if he at looked at his renewal notices or his bank account sooner.
Mr S hadnt claimed on the policy and his dog does not appear to have any existing
conditions, so I dont think there was anything stopping him from changing his policy if he feltthe cost was too high  which hes told us he did when he discovered the premium increase.
I know Mr S is also unhappy with the way RSA handled his complaint. And from what I can
see I think RSA could have given him clearer information about why it was not upholding his
complaint. And I appreciate it must have been frustrating to feel his concerns were not being
investigated and addressed properly.
I hope that this provisional decision makes it clearer for him. But it is not my role to punish
RSA or investigate the quality of their complaint handling.
Having considered all the above, I currently dont think RSA unfairly priced his pet insurance
policy and so I wont be looking to ask them to do anything.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider
before I reached my final decision. Neither Mr S or RSA had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman