DRN-3312303
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr R took had a short term income protection policy. It would pay £800 per month for up to 
12 months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness. Mr R stopped working in 
May 2018, following an accident in which he injured his shoulder. Hes not returned to work 
since and has had ongoing problems with his shoulder. 
He claimed on the income protection policy, but the claim was declined because hed made 
it more than six months after hed last worked and as hed not been under the care of a 
consultant as required by the policy terms. Mr R complained as he wanted Fairmead to pay 
his claim. Fairmead maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr R referred 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said that Fairmead had fairly declined 
the claim. Mr R didnt agree and asked an Ombudsman to review the complaint. In response 
to the investigators opinion he said it had been over 3 years and six months since his last 
day at work. He explained that hed had surgery in October 2018 which was within 180 days 
of the beginning of his sick leave. He questioned whether the investigator had considered or 
reviewed the medical evidence hed provided. Mr R also reiterated that he was in receipt of 
state benefits and had been since May 2018. As Mr R didnt agree the case has been 
referred to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Fairmead has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions explain what a policyholder needs to do when making a 
claim. It says: 
You must tell us about your claim as soon as reasonably possible, but within 180 
days of the date you were last in work. 
So, in summary, Mr R had to let Fairmead know about his claim within six months of him 
stopping work. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr R had an accident in May 2018 and injured his shoulder. Since May 2018 Mr R 
has had ongoing health issues including shoulder pain, back pain and hip pain. 
Ive looked at all of the medical evidence provided. I think it is most likely that Mr R 
stopped working in May 2018. Ive looked at the sick notes from Mr Rs GP which 
show that he was first signed off work in May 2018. Thats also consistent with what 
Mr R has told us. He said hed been receiving state benefits since May 2018. And, in 
November 2021 Mr R told us, it has been 3 years, six months, 3 days since my last 
day at work. So, all of the evidence points to Mr R having last worked in May 2018. 
Mr R needed to contact Fairmead within 180 days of stopping work. He didnt contact 
them until at least November 2019, which is more than 180 days after he stopped 
working. So, he didnt report the claim within the timeframe set out in the policy. 
Ive thought about whether there was a good reason why Mr R didnt report the claim 
to his insurer within the six-month time frame and I dont think there was. During this 
time he was engaging with treatment and travelled to a different country for surgery. 
So, theres no obvious or persausive reason why he didnt get in touch with his 
insurer as required by the policy. 
Since May 2018 Mr R has had various health issues. Fairmead hasnt had the 
opportunity to engage with the claim and get contemporary information about his 
health during that time. Had Mr R notified them as required I think theyd have been 
able to do so. Therefore, I think Fairmead has been prejudiced by Mr Rs late 
notification of the claim. 
Mr R says that the surgery on his shoulder took place within 180 days of the 
accident. But the policy says Mr R must let Fairmead know about the claim within 
180 days of stopping work. So, I dont think the number of days between the accident 
and the surgery is relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
I dont think I need to make a finding about whether Mr R was under the care of a 
consultant which was another reason Mr Rs claim declined. Thats because I think 
Fairmead is entitled to decline the claim in line with the policy terms as 
Mr R didnt notify them of the claim within the required time limit. And I dont think 
there are any fair and reasonable grounds to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman