DRN-2740095
The complaint
Mr D complains that United National Bank Limited (trading as United Bank UK) is unfairly
asking him to pay its legal costs related to his home purchase plan.  
What happened
Mr D took out an Islamic home purchase plan facility with UBL secured on his property. In 
early 2019 UBL received notice that Mr Ds ex-wife was applying for Mr Ds interest in the 
property to be transferred into her name. UBL took legal advice and debited the cost (about 
£5,700) from Mr Ds bank account in mid-2019. This put his account into overdraft.
Mr D says UBL had no right to debit these costs from his bank account, which isnt linked to 
the home purchase plan. And he says the legal costs were incurred unnecessarily as UBLs 
security wasnt at risk. Mr D said while the court could order him to transfer his interest in the 
property as part of the divorce proceedings, it couldnt require UBL to consent to this or to 
give up its security interest in the property. He said UBLs security wasnt at risk and the 
contract didnt entitle it to charge him for its legal fees. He says hes received letters from 
UBL saying it intends to recover legal costs of about £20,000 from him.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said UBL should refund any costs, charges or interest (if any) applied to Mr Ds 
bank account as a result of it deducting its legal costs in mid-2019, pay compensation of 
£200 and not seek to recover certain legal expenses above the amount awarded by a court 
order.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. I see no reason to change my findings 
and the outcome from those set out in my provisional decision, which were substantially as 
set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ds complaint is about what happened in mid-2019. However, since he brought the 
complaint to us theres been a court order which I must take into account to reach a fair 
outcome.
UBL received notice that Mr Ds ex-wife had applied for Mr Ds interest in the property over 
which it has security to be transferred into her name. This was part of their divorce 
proceedings.
Mr Ds home purchase plan is structured to meet the requirements of Shariah law. UBL 
wanted to protect its security in what could become a complex situation and so it took legal 
advice, as its entitled to do.
UBL says its entitled to be indemnified for its legal costs under the security document signed 
by Mr D in 2009. It says it has received legal advice to this effect, and this is supported by 
copies of correspondence from its solicitors.
However, thats not the end of the matter for me. I also need to consider whether it was fair 
for UBL to ask Mr D to pay the costs. Id only consider it fair if UBL reasonably believed its 
security was at risk and it incurred these costs to protect its security.
UBL provided correspondence from its legal advisers. UBLs legal advisers said that its 
security was at risk, and it needed to take action to protect its interests. In particular, UBL 
was advised the proposal for the transfer of Mr Ds interest in the property to his ex-wife was 
unworkable and would prejudice UBLs position. It was told it was possible the court might 
make an order for the property to be transferred without UBLs consent. And UBL received 
advice from counsel that it needed to be a party to the legal action to protect its position and 
legal rights.
UBLs legal advisers say that once the court decided in principle that the property should be 
transferred to Mr Ds ex-wife, they worked with the other legal advisers to agree a form of 
order that would implement this and protect UBLs interests.
I think, based on the evidence Ive seen, it was fair for UBL to take legal advice about how to 
protect its security, and ask Mr D to pay these costs. However, I also have to take into 
account that a court has already issued an order relating to these costs.
Mr D and UBL both provided copies of a court order issued in April 2020 and relating to 
transfer of property as part of the divorce proceedings. This says Mr D and his ex-wife are 
jointly and severally liable to UBL for 50% of UBLs expenses. Both Mr D and UBL say the 
agreed judicial expenses for which Mr D and his ex-wife were liable was £8,550. While Mr D 
and his ex-wife might have agreed to pay 50% each, as this is a joint and several liability 
UBL can ask Mr D to pay all or part. UBL has received £4,275 and so Mr D is liable (jointly 
and severally) for the remainder.
UBL says it is entitled to seek recovery of its remaining expenses (of about £24,000) from 
Mr D as these were incurred in protecting its security. UBL said the judge was explicit that 
the court order was entirely without prejudice to UBLs rights to seek recovery of their 
remaining costs from Mr D as a matter of contract under the lending document. I cant see 
that the court order says this, and UBL didnt provide other evidence to support this.
UBL says its judicial expenses were assessed at about £19,300 (this included some legal 
work that wasnt then required). The court order allowed it to recover half, about £8,550. As 
a court issued an order saying this was the amount UBL could recover I dont think it would 
be fair for UBL to seek to recover expenses that were considered by the court and not 
included in the court order.
I think its fair for UBL to recover £8,550 of its legal costs incurred up to the date of the April 
court order (less any amount already paid). I dont think its fair for UBL to seek to recover 
further expenses included in the assessment of judicial expenses for the purposes of the 
April 2020 court order, above the amount awarded by the court.
Ill return then to the complaint that Mr D brought to us: that UBL had no right to claim legal 
expenses from him, and no right to deduct them from his bank account. I think UBL was entitled to recover some of its legal costs from Mr D. It could have asked him to pay them or 
added them to the loan. However, I dont think it was entitled to deduct its legal costs from 
Mr Ds bank account.
UBL has already re-credited Mr Ds account with an amount equal to the costs it deducted. It 
says there werent any charges and interest applied as a result of deducting the legal costs 
from Mr Ds bank account. For completeness though I should say that if there are any such 
charges or interest UBL must refund them. I also think it should pay Mr D £200 for the 
inconvenience and upset this caused  and which put his account into overdraft.
Mr D stopped making payments to the home purchase plan in mid-2019. UBL is pursuing 
him for the arrears. This might be why Mr D says UBL is now asking him to pay legal costs 
of about £20,000. This is a different issue to the complaint brought to us, and so I wont be 
considering it here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order United National Bank Limited:
To pay £200 to Mr D; and
To refund any costs or charges or interest (if any) applied to Mr Ds bank account as a 
result of it deducting its legal costs in mid-2019.
Not to seek to recover expenses included in the assessment of judicial expenses for the 
purposes of the April 2020 court order, above the amount awarded by the court.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman