DRN-2097884
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy at how a claim was dealt with under his home insurance policy underwritten 
by Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Mr M went to Thailand in December 2019 but, when he arrived, he couldnt find one of his 
suitcases on the luggage carousel. He reported this to the airport staff, and it was later 
established that the suitcase had arrived. But Mr M didnt have it. The suitcase included Mr 
Ms wallet, some cash and some expensive clothes. 
Mr M initially claimed for a stolen suitcase against his travel insurance policy, but he was 
unhappy with how this claim was being dealt with. So he claimed against his home 
insurance policy underwritten by RSA. They instructed a claims investigation company to 
look into the claim, and they didnt think there was enough evidence to prove a loss occurred 
in the way Mr M had described. So RSA declined the claim, avoided the policy in line with 
the terms and conditions, and placed a fraudulent marker against Mr Ms name.
Mr M has complained that RSA declined the claim, cancelled his policy and accused him of 
fraud. Hes also unhappy with how the claims investigation company treated him  he feels 
they were rude and vindictive, and they took too long in dealing with his claim. Mr M has also 
complained about the advice he was given from his bank  to claim against the policy with 
RSA instead of his travel insurance policy. So hes brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said, because the photos Mr M provided of some of the items in the missing 
suitcase were taken after the date the suitcase went missing, it was reasonable that RSA 
fully investigated the claim, and instructed a company to do this for them. He thought the 
claims investigation company asked probing questions, and challenged some of the answers 
they were given, but he didnt think this was rude or vindictive  he thought it was reasonable 
they established the circumstances of the loss and questioned any inconsistencies.
The investigator also said that, because Mr M initially claimed elsewhere for his loss, RSA 
were reasonable in contacting the travel insurance company as part of their investigation. 
And he didnt think RSA could be held responsible for the delay in the travel insurance 
company responding to them. 
The investigator thought that RSA had considered all of the evidence theyd had from Mr M, 
the claims investigation company and the travel insurance company when making their 
decision. And he thought the decision to decline the claim wasnt unreasonable given this 
evidence. So he said RSA didnt need to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said his luggage was stolen, and the airline has 
confirmed this. Hes said he didnt make a fraudulent claim, so its unfair that he has a 
fraudulent marker against his name  he believes that RSA and the claims investigation 
company were biased against him. Mr M has also commented on the role of his bank in this 
claim. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Firstly Id like to say that its not my role to re-underwrite the claim and say whether RSA 
shouldve paid out or not. My role is to look at whether RSA considered all the evidence they 
had, and if they made a fair decision based on that evidence. And my decision will only 
consider the actions of RSA and the claims investigation company, who were acting as their 
agent. I wont be considering the advice provided by Mr Ms bank about where to make his 
claim. Mr M would need to raise a separate complaint to his bank about this.
Ive seen a copy of the claim Mr M made, which explains he waited for his suitcase at the 
luggage carousel, but it wasnt there. This also explains that the airline has confirmed his 
suitcase arrived at the airport. So Mr M said his suitcase must have been stolen by either 
another passenger or a baggage handler at the airport. But Ive also seen an email from the 
airline dated 26 December 2019, which confirms your luggage was collected / taken by 
three adults but clearly not yourself. I havent seen that Mr M provided this email to either 
the claims investigation company or to RSA. And he didnt mention it on the claim form.
I understand that Mr Ms travel insurance company had concerns about the items that were 
in the suitcase, and with the photographs hed provided. But, before they could investigate 
this, Mr M withdrew his claim and claimed against his policy underwritten by RSA instead.
Ive listened to the call between Mr M and the claims investigation company that took place 
on 9 January 2020. On this call, Mr M explained hed chosen to make his claim through his 
policy underwritten by RSA, even though it had a £250 excess and his travel insurance 
policy didnt have any excess. He said this was because hed had a positive experience with 
a previous claim on this policy.
When he was asked to explain whatd happened, Mr M said his suitcase still hadnt been 
found. He said that, while he was in Thailand, the airline told him that his suitcase had 
arrived in Bangkok but that it was not found. He also said that, because hed completed a 
report at the airport, and because he thought there was a possibility that his suitcase could 
still turn up, he didnt report the matter to the local police in Thailand.
When asked what he thought had happened to his suitcase, Mr M said if they cant find it 
after this length of time I think its been stolen. He also said he thought the suitcase was 
taken by either a baggage handler or was taken off the luggage carousel by someone else. 
This explanation matched with what Mr M had put on the claim form when he made the 
claim to RSA after returning from Thailand. But it didnt match with what Mr M knew from the 
airlines email of 26 December 2019. 
The claims investigation company told Mr M hed need to make a retrospective report of the 
loss of his suitcase and explained how he could do this. Mr M was initially reluctant to do 
this. But he agreed to when he was told his claim couldnt progress without it.
On the call Mr M also confirmed that everything hed told the claims investigation company 
was true and accurate to the best of his knowledge. But he didnt tell them about the email from the airline, which hed received while he was still in Thailand, and which confirmed that 
his suitcase had been collected by someone else. And Mr M has subsequently said to us 
that it was because of this email that he knew his suitcase had definitely been stolen.
Mr M had provided photographs of some of the items in the missing suitcase. In a follow-up 
call on 15 January 2020, Mr M initially told the claims investigation company that hed taken 
these photos at home in December 2019, when he was doing a catalogue of his clothes.
But the electronic properties of these photos showed they were taken on 1 and 2 January 
2020. When challenged on this point, Mr M said these werent the items that were in the 
suitcase but were photos of virtually identical items  he said he had two of the same 
jackets and suits. And he was providing these photos so it could be seen whats missing. He 
also said that he took the photos, and said they were of the items in his suitcase to try to 
strengthen my case, and because he didnt have any photos of what was actually in the 
suitcase. And he thought not having any earlier photos wouldnt help his case.
Its also the case that, if the claim investigation company hadnt been able to get the property 
details off the electronic photos, the claim wouldve been settled on false information. Mr M 
acknowledged this in a call with the claims investigation company on 20 January 2020. 
On this call Mr M also confirmed that he purchased the items in the suitcase within the last 
six to seven months. He was asked for proof of purchase for both the items in the suitcase 
and the virtually identical items in the photos. The claims investigation company said these 
were needed because of the false information Mr M had given in the call in 15 January 2020.
For relatively large value items purchased within the last year, Id expect someone to be able 
to provide at least copies of bank or credit card statements showing the purchases being 
made. But Mr M said he couldnt provide anything.
Mr Ms suitcase was also discussed on this call. Mr M had originally provided a photo of a 
suitcase which he now said was of a similar suitcase he owned from the same manufacturer. 
The photo of the suitcase showed a luggage tag from the same airline Mr M had travelled to 
Thailand with, but Mr M said this was from a previous trip hed taken. But when asked if he 
still had this luggage tag, Mr M said he didnt. So he couldnt provide it.
Having listened to the calls between Mr M and the claims investigation company, Im 
satisfied they treated him fairly. They had concerns about the claim and questioned him 
about these. They also gave Mr M the opportunity to explain why hed given them false 
information about the photos, and to provide additional evidence to support his claims. I 
dont think that the claims investigation company were rude or vindictive during these calls.
Ive also seen there were problems in trying to get the information from Mr Ms travel 
insurance claim, and there was a delay in this being provided. This delay was outside of the 
control of either the claims investigation company or RSA, so I wont be holding them 
responsible for this. 
The report produced by the claims investigation company says they recommended declining 
the claim because they were concerned Mr M was still in possession of some/all of the items 
he was claiming for. They were also concerned that Mr M was claiming for cash that was 
packed in the suitcase. I think its reasonable for them to expect that items such as a large 
amount of cash would be kept on Mr Ms person, and not packed separately in luggage that 
would be out of his possession for a long period of time and could easily go missing. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, there were a number of things that RSA would have 
reasonably have concerns about. These are:Mr M was withholding the information hed had from the airline about whod collected 
his suitcase  he didnt put this on the claim form, and he didnt tell the claims 
investigation company when he had the opportunity to do so.
Mr M didnt report the theft to the Thai police when he knew from the airlines email 
that his suitcase had been collected by someone else. And he initially expressed 
reluctance to report this retrospectively.
Mr M cancelled his travel insurance claim and made a claim against the policy 
underwritten by RSA, which had a higher excess. This cancellation happened at a 
time when the travel insurance company had concerns about the claim and were 
starting to investigate these concerns.
Mr M admitted providing false evidence by trying to pass off photos of similar items 
as being photos of the items in the suitcase, in order to strengthen his case.
Mr Ms wasnt able to provide any proof of purchase, including any bank or credit 
card statements, that would support the purchases hed made six-to-seven months 
earlier.
The large amount of cash and credit cards Mr M had decided to keep in his suitcase, 
rather than on his person.
Notwithstanding the fact that RSA probably werent aware that Mr M had withheld evidence 
from the airline when they made their decision; because of the above concerns I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably by reaching the decision they did. So I wont be asking them to 
reconsider Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman