DRN-3037873
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following a 
claim for damage to his boiler. 
What happened
Mr A held a home insurance policy with Aviva which included home emergency cover. 
On 11 January 2021 Mr A contacted Aviva and explained that his boiler wasnt working. 
Aviva arranged for an engineer to attend to Mr As boiler but the engineer couldnt order 
parts or fix anything. Aviva arranged for another engineer to find out what was wrong. 
Avivas engineer attended on 13 January and replaced the printed circuit board (PCB).
Mr As boiler continued to have problems. Mr A contacted another provider who he also had 
cover with (provider B). Provider B attended Mr As property and completed repairs, 
including changing the programmer. That same day, Mr A noticed that his boiler was getting 
too hot. So, problems with the boiler didnt appear to be remedied by provider B either.
Mr A contacted Aviva on 15 January, as things still werent sorted, and there was now a 
further issue with the boilers temperature. On 16 January an Aviva engineer attended and 
changed the fuse for the boiler. Mr A says that during this visit he was told that another 
engineer would attend to check the work carried out, and Mr A would receive a call about 
this. Mr A says he was advised not to touch the boiler or thermostat in the meanwhile. So, he 
didnt. But this meant the house was very hot.  
On 20 January Mr A called Aviva and the case notes recorded Call back request, our eng 
attended & fitted a new PCB. The oust feels that the eng advised of another call to fix an 
issue with the thermostat & was expecting a call back on Tuesday. I rang the contractor & Ift 
a VM for them to call the oust to update him. 
On 24 January Mr A called Aviva as he still hadnt from the engineer. Mr A also told Aviva 
that hed not touched the boiler or thermostat, as he was waiting for Aviva to get in touch. 
Because of the raised temperature in the house, his daughter had fainted. Aviva arranged 
for an engineer to attend Mr As property the same day. The engineer found that everything 
was working ok. The electricity had tripped since the programmer had been changed so the 
engineer reset this. 
Mr A contacted Aviva on 27 January and explained that the fuse board was still tripping. 
Aviva arranged for an electrician to be sent, but no fault was found. Avivas case notes 
recorded theres power going to the boiler, so there is no electrical fault so needs gas 
engineer back, re attend raised on /3.. . Customer says not able to control temperature so 
issue with boiler system beyond spur. Needs boiler engineer to investigate and rectify. 
The case notes indicate that an engineer attended Mr As property on 1 February but no fault 
was found with the boiler or system by the engineer. Mr A continued to experience issues 
with his boiler and fuse board. Mr As wife changed the fuse board, but on 6 February the 
fuse board blew up. 
On 9 February the electrician attended and it was noted checked the internally fuse to 
boiler, which has blown, fault with boiler raised. Aviva then sent an engineer. The engineer 
replaced the fuse, and reported that problem appears to be water ingress from the flue due 
to weather i.e rain and recent snow. 
Mr A continued to experience problems. On 10 February Aviva sent an engineer to 
investigate the same issue with the fuse board and electrics. The engineer that attended 
found that PCB had blown. The engineer also found that Water was getting into boiler from 
flue and thats what could have caused continuous electrical problems which has damaged 
to front and base of the insulation. Mr As boiler was deemed beyond economical repair. 
Mr A complained to Aviva about the poor service hed received while trying to get his boiler 
fixed. He was particularly unhappy with the information hed been given by the engineer who 
told him not to touch the boiler or thermostat as another engineer would be sent to 
investigate the problem. Mr A said because hed relied on this, his daughter collapsed due to 
the high temperature. Mr A sought private medical care for her treatment costing over £700, 
as the consultant had advised The investigations confirmed that her collapsing episode is 
secondary to the high heat within her home.   
Aviva responded to Mr As complaint on 1 March. They acknowledged that the service 
provided couldve been better, and offered £65 for the inconvenience caused to Mr A. Aviva 
said they couldnt find any evidence to support the advice given by the engineer not to touch 
the boiler or thermostat. 
Mr A was unhappy with this decision, and so brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found that the compensation offered by Aviva didnt go far 
enough in recognising the upset caused to Mr A. The investigator recommended Aviva pay 
Mr A £200 for the poor service hed received and the impact it had had on him. The 
investigator didnt recommend Aviva pay for the medical costs Mr A was seeking. 
Aviva didnt agree with the investigator, saying that theyd contacted the engineer whod 
attended on 16th January, and the engineer had advised I can find no documentation to 
confirm that a conversation was had re the thermostat temperature, but according to 
customer he did have other contractors in attendance during that time too'. Aviva also 
commented If there was to be a further visit the engineer would have put this in his notes 
and the job would not have been closed off. Therefore, I cannot accept that we informed [Mr 
A] of this. 
Mr A also didnt accept the investigators findings, saying the reason for going private was 
pure concern for my Daughter as she has never collapsed and shook like that before I was 
as you know advised not to turn down heating by the engineer and was advised that 
someone will come next day to check work. that was the very cold snowing period and I 
had no hot water and I am also asthmatic which effects me. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.It is an insurers duty to ensure a claim is progressed promptly and fairly, and that the insurer 
provides guidance to the consumer in terms of the claim.      
Mr A contacted Aviva in early January to report a problem, and it wasnt until a month later 
the problem causing the emergency was identified. There were nine visits to the property 
before a correct diagnosis was given. And Mr A didnt receive any communication after he 
told Aviva he was under the impression he would be hearing from another engineer. Despite 
Aviva then contacting the engineer to raise a query about this.
As the above is accepted, the dispute now relates to the award of compensation that should 
be paid in recognition of what went wrong, and the impact this had on Mr A.
The crux of Mr As complaint, and the compensation he wants Aviva to pay, concerns the 
misinformation he says he was given on 16 January 2021 when he was told by the Aviva 
engineer that further inspection was required, and hed receive a call to arrange for this to 
happen. Mr A says he was advised not to touch the boiler or thermostat in the meantime. It 
was reliance on this information which led to the trouble and frustrations Mr A is seeking 
compensation for.  
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was discussed with Mr A on 16 January 2021. 
So, I cant be sure what Mr A was told about another engineer getting in touch with him. But 
what is clear is that four days later Mr A told Aviva he was of this impression. And Aviva said 
they would contact the engineer and get back to Mr A.
On 20 January Avivas case notes recorded rang the contractor & Ift a VM for them to call 
the oust [sic] to update him. Even though a message was left with the engineer that had 
visited Mr A on 16 January, it doesnt appear that the engineer made any further contact with 
Mr A. Or that Aviva itself contacted Mr A after this message either.
Given that at this point Aviva knew Mr A was struggling with boiler problems and was 
awaiting a response from them before turning the heating down, Im satisfied Aviva should 
have got back to Mr A promptly to discuss next steps.
Aviva didnt do this, and this meant Mr A had to chase the matter. By this point Mr A had 
been living in his property, with the heating too warm, for a further four days. And he has 
provided information to show the level of heat at the property caused his daughter to faint.
Aviva say theyre not responsible for this. And If there was to be a further visit the engineer 
would have put this in his notes and the job would not have been closed off. But whether 
Aviva told Mr A theyd be visiting again or not, they had the chance to put things right by 
getting back to Mr A and arranging for another engineer after Mr A called them on 20th 
January. But by not following up with the engineer after leaving a voicemail, I think they 
treated the job [as] closed off. Despite knowing the property was too hot.
The evidence indicates that the issues Mr A was reporting were often relating to the same, 
or a linked problem, but had to be raised several times before being detected. Although I 
take on board Avivas comments that their engineers couldnt find any faults at the time of 
inspection, I think the continual calls for similar issues only days apart, suggest the problem 
wasnt being correctly assessed and remedied by Aviva. I can appreciate how all of the 
above wouldve caused Mr A further frustration and inconvenience to what was already a 
very stressful time for him. 
Mr A says that Aviva should be held responsible for the medical expenses incurred as a 
result of his daughter fainting due to the high temperature. He feels strongly that Aviva is 
responsible for what happened to his daughter. I dont doubt what an upsetting time it mustve been for Mr A when dealing with the issues with his boiler, and the impact on his 
family. 
I appreciate Mr A was acting in his daughters best interest by taking her through private 
healthcare for treatment. And I note his comments that because of the pressure on the 
public health system, he didnt feel he had a choice. But balancing whats happened, I dont 
think it would be proportionate to ask Aviva to pay for this, when treatment could have been 
sought without incurring costs. So I wont be asking Aviva to cover the medical expenses Mr 
A is claiming. 
But I do think its fair that Aviva pay further compensation than the £65 offered, in recognition 
of the impact on Mr A. 
Having considered these events, I think a payment of £200 is fair compensation to Mr A for 
the poor service received from Aviva. I say this because I think it fairly reflects the level of 
inconvenience Mr A experienced by needing to call Aviva a number of times, and the 
frustration caused by the lack of response to his call of 20th January. I also think this 
recognises the worry Mr A felt at the temperature in his house and the effect on his family. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended a payment of £200 (minus any compensation already paid) 
to recognise the impact on Mr A as a result of the poor service provided by Aviva. 
I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct Aviva to pay Mr A £200 (minus any compensation already paid) in recognition of 
the impact on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must follow my directions above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman