DRN-2441623
The complaint
Mr R complains that, although he expected the interest rate on his credit card with NewDay 
Ltd to go down, it actually went up.
What happened
Mr R said he took out a card with NewDay some years ago. He told us that hed understood
that the interest rate on the card would be reduced from the initial rate of around 35% to just
under 20%, once he showed he was running the account well. He said that was clearly
indicated in the literature when he took the card out. But in fact the interest rate had gone up.
Mr R said hed asked NewDay about this, and it had just made some general statements. He
wanted to know why his interest rate had gone up. And he didnt think this was fair, given
that his card had been managed well.
NewDay said it had reviewed Mr Rs interest rate. It has set out some general reasons why it
would do this, but it hasnt told him which of those reasons were most important in his
particular case. It has said it doesnt have to give more details than this, and also that it
acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account.
NewDay said that Mr R hadnt paid towards his card since January 2020, and it had now
been closed and defaulted. NewDay told us it had sold Mr Rs debt in May 2020.
NewDay didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that NewDay offered
Mr R a card at an initial rate of 34.9% APR, in November 2014. In November 2017 it wrote to
him to say it was going to increase the rate on the card, from 8 January 2018. That letter had
explained that if Mr R didnt want to accept the increase, he could close the account, and still
repay the existing balance at the old rate.
Our investigator said she was satisfied that NewDay had acted within the agreement it had
with Mr R, when it increased the rate. Hed asked for detailed reasons why this was done,
but NewDay isnt obliged to give that information.
Mr R didnt agree. He said we seemed to have missed the main thrust of his argument,
which was that the card he took out was offered as a way to rebuild his credit file, and that
a well run account should see the interest rate charged reduced. Not only was his rate not
reduced, his rate was increased to over 40%.
Mr R said hed never missed a payment, and must have operated the account well, as
NewDay offered him increased credit limits and upgraded his account to Gold status. So he
wanted to know why his interest rate had gone up. He didnt think NewDay should be able to
hide behind commercially sensitive information.
Mr R also said that although NewDay knew about his complaint to us, it had refused to put a
hold on his account, and sold it on with what he considered to be indecent haste. Mr R
wanted us to look at all the complaints people were making online about NewDay. Mr R said
he was very disappointed. He wanted his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr R says NewDays bad behaviour towards its clients is well documented. Even if 
that were the case, I would still only be able to consider, as part of this complaint, 
what has happened to Mr R. And I dont think NewDay has behaved badly here, or 
treated him unfairly. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr R said he had an expectation that his interest rate on this card would decrease 
over time. And he said he expected that because this was set out very clearly in the 
literature he read at the time he took out this card.
If Mr R could show that NewDay had said this, then I would need to investigate what 
it had promised Mr R, and why it didnt do what it had promised. But Mr R hasnt 
shown us any of the literature that he says indicated his rate would come down over 
time. I know he took out this card a while ago. So he may no longer have that 
literature.
But it is possible to view online (using an independent internet archive) at least some 
of the promotional material that was available in 2014, for this credit card. And I cant 
see any indication that NewDay was saying in 2014 that it would bring the interest 
rate on this card down over time if the account was well managed. I havent seen that 
in other cases for this lender either.
I dont think it is likely that Mr R did receive a clear indication from NewDay that it 
would bring his interest rate down over time if his account was well managed.
Even if NewDay didnt tell Mr R that his interest rate would decrease, I do still need to
consider if NewDay acted fairly and reasonably in increasing Mr Rs interest rate. I 
can see that it followed its own terms and conditions when it did that. Its given Mr R 
a general indication of the issues which would lead it to take this step. I dont think 
thats unreasonable or unfair. And I dont think that NewDay has to be more specific 
than it has been about why Mr Rs interest rate was changed.
Mr R also said that NewDay had closed, defaulted and sold this debt, although he 
said it knew that hed complained to our service. Although lenders will sometimes 
pause action on a debt when someone complains to us, they dont have to.
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NewDay didnt reply. Mr R sent a substantive reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R said he thought Id reached my decision on the basis that NewDay wouldnt have 
offered him a card with a reducing interest rate. But he said that was exactly what it had 
done. He said that unfortunately he didnt have the original paperwork, or access to emails 
from back then. But he said that he was sending us various documents that clearly showed 
NewDay was still actively advertising these cards, exactly as they were in 2014 when he 
took out his card. 
Mr R said the adverts might not be identical to those in 2014, but the premise is the same, 
the card offered a reducing interest rate to eligible borrowers. Mr R said that other people 
must have been affected by this too, and he might want to take legal action in future.
Mr R has sent us a number of adverts. He was seeking to show that NewDays aqua brand 
of cards do offer a reducing rate of interest. I dont think that Mr R has shown us that all aqua 
cards do this. But I do think hes been able to show that NewDay offers more than one 
version of this card. And one of the versions of this card, the aqua advance, has an interest 
rate that reduces over time. 
So, we do now know that there is a version of the aqua card which does have a reducing 
interest rate  the aqua advance. And, armed with this additional information from Mr R, Ive 
been able to find that this card was available in 2014. 
But I hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mr Rs aqua card was an aqua advance. As Mr R 
was adamant that hed applied for the card after seeing an advert for reducing interest rates, 
I wanted to check whether it was possible that Mr R had applied for an aqua advance card, 
with the reducing interest rate, but got a different version of the aqua card, with the standard 
rate. So I asked NewDay for evidence of which card Mr R applied for. 
NewDay has told us that Mr R applied for the aqua reward card, which is the only aqua card 
to pay cashback. It said it wouldnt have offered him a different card to the one he applied 
for, it just doesnt have a system to do that. 
NewDay has shown us Mr Rs original application, which was for an aqua reward card. I can 
also see from Mr Rs statements that he has received cashback on his card, which he 
wouldnt have been paid with any of the other aqua card products. 
So I dont think theres been a mistake about the card Mr R received. And I think that the 
reason Mr R didnt see his interest rate reduce on his card was because he hadnt applied 
for the card which offered a reducing interest rate. Instead, he applied for, and got, the aqua 
reward card which offers cashback. 
And, for that reason, I still dont think that NewDay has done anything wrong here. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman