DRN-3605259
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax told her ex-partner that she 
wanted to switch to a new fixed interest rate product on their joint mortgage, despite saying 
that it would not do so. She said her ex-partner was abusive. 
What happened
Miss M has a mortgage with her now ex-partner. She asked Halifax to switch the mortgage 
to a new five-year fixed rate product  and asked it not to contact her ex-partner as he was 
physically and emotionally abusive to her. Miss M said that Halifax agreed not to contact her 
ex-partner, but then did so. He then would only agree to a new two-year fixed rate product 
and that he wanted Miss M to sell the house. Halifax eventually agreed to the five-year fixed 
interest rate product.
Miss M said that Halifaxs actions have made her very anxious and upset and that she had 
to receive medical treatment for that.
I issued a provisional decision, upholding this complaint. My findings, which form part of this 
complaint were:
Miss M had a joint mortgage with her ex-partner. I accept the very difficult and traumatic time 
she has been through because of that relationship. But her ex-partner is jointly and severally 
liable for the mortgage debt. It was reasonable for Halifax to tell her ex-partner what was 
happening even though it was aware of the dispute between them.
But rather than simply notifying Miss Ms ex-partner, Halifax wrongly sought their consent 
briefly reversed the change to the interest rate product and passed on a threat that he would 
force a sale of the property
The evidence from both Miss M and Halifax suggests that Miss Ms ex-partner told Halifax 
that he wanted to sell the house  and that information was passed on to Miss M. I am 
satisfied that information was only passed to Miss M as a result of the mistakes made by 
Halifax. If it had acted correctly, the only communication it would have had with the ex-
partner was to tell him about the new rate, not to ask his permission for it to go ahead. And it 
would not have enabled the ex-partner to pass on information to Miss M from him. Halifax, 
as the expert here, ought to be aware of the issues around domestic abuse and take care 
not to pass on information that might be intended to cause the victim of abuse distress.
Putting things right
Halifax has not treated Miss M fairly or reasonably. In the circumstances here, it did not need 
to ask her ex-partners permission to switch the interest rate product. And when it did so, it 
allowed Miss Ms ex-partner to take advantage of that and to decline to accept the new 
product and threaten Miss M with the sale of the home where she lives with her children.
This has clearly caused Miss M distress and inconvenience. She had arranged a five-year 
fixed interest rate product. That was withdrawn because of Halifaxs mistake. She had the 
trouble and stress of sorting that out  and I accept that she was already suffering with 
mental health problems before this matter.
I also accept that this matter will have had an impact on Miss Ms mental health and added 
to the suffering that she has experienced. Her ex-partner would not have had the opportunity 
to refuse the new fixed rate product or to threaten to sell the home had Halifax acted 
correctly. In saying that, I cant see that Halifax was aware that the restraining order 
prevented Miss Ms ex-partner contacting her through a third party. 
In the circumstances, Halifax ought to have exercised more care before passing on 
information to Miss M from her ex-partner. In saying that, I dont consider it would be fair to 
say that Halifax was solely responsible for the distress and suffering caused by passing on 
the information from the ex-partner. If Miss M considers there has been a breach of the 
restraining order then she should seek legal advice about that. 
Miss M has told us that she suffered a breakdown, had suicidal thoughts and had to seek 
medical treatment when Halifax passed on what her ex-partner had said. Overall, in view of 
what Miss M has told us about the distress, inconvenience and suffering this matter has 
caused to her  and bearing in mind that Halifax enabled that to happen but was not solely 
responsible for the impact on Miss M, I consider it would be fair for it to pay her £750.
Halifax accepted my provisional findings. Miss M responded to re-emphasise the impact that 
this had on her and her children and how it has affected her mental health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with what Miss M has said. Halifax should have understood her situation. It was 
wrong for it to pass on what her ex-partner said about selling the house and to withdraw the 
fixe year fixed rate. But Halifax had to tell her ex-partner about changes to the mortgage. So 
it wasnt wrong for it to send information about the changes to him  although it shouldnt 
have led Miss M to believe it wouldnt do that. 
I need to make an award of compensation to reflect the distress, inconvenience, pain and 
suffering caused by Halifaxs actions. I have thought carefully about what Miss M has told us 
about how it affected her family and her mental health when Halifax passed on the message 
 and about how that would cause her extreme difficulties. But I still consider that £750 is a 
fair amount to reflect the impact of this matter on Miss M, bearing in mind that Halifax was 
able to resolve the underlying issue regarding the interest rate quickly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland UK PLC trading as Halifax should pay Miss M 
£750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman