DRN-3264558
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with Santander UK Plc. She explains she has been the victim of a scam
and does not consider that the bank has properly investigated the matter.
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by her daughter, Ms M.
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs J contracted with a building firm to convert her garage. She wanted
to make a more comfortable living space for her husband who was seriously ill. Sadly he
passed away before work could be completed.
Ms M found the building firm by searching the internet. She explains they had a website, a
brochure and reviews from previous customers. Before Mrs J entered into the contract with
the building firm, she visited a renovation the building firm claimed to have undertaken at
another property. There were no concerns identified with the workmanship that had been
done there.
The building firm squeezed the job in. The work was to be completed between
18 November 2019 and 23 December 2019. The quotation shows the total cost of the job
was £9,519.94. The balance was to be paid in four instalments as it progressed.
Mrs J made the first payment by a cheque made payable to the building firm on
15 November 2019. She made the second and third payments by cheque made payable to
the directors girlfriend on 27 November 2019 and 10 December 2019 respectively. The final
payment of £2,378.24 was made by bank transfer to the directors girlfriends bank account
on 23 December 2019.
The work commenced on schedule and was progressing as expected up until the plastering
happened in late November. After the break for the plaster to dry, Ms M says the work
slowed and became more sporadic.
Ms M explains that around the time of the third payment, they had some concerns and it was
unclear whether all of the plastering had been completed. She says the third payment was
made as they desperately needed to get the windows fitted.
Some of the emails Ms M exchanged with the director around this time suggest there was a
potential wait for windows to arrive.
On 23 December 2019, the director and a colleague visited the property. The director told
Mrs J that the work would be finished that day. Mrs J went to her local branch to make the
final payment. But the work was not completed. Ms M explains that they only screwed in two
sliding door rails and appear to have left once the money had cleared.
Mrs J had spoken to the director about refitting the other windows at the front of her house at
the same time as the garage conversion. Ms M has shared copies of emails she exchanged
with the director on this point which show discussions about whether to go ahead with this
work continued into January 2020. Ms M explains they ultimately decided the garage
conversion should be finished before starting any additional work.
In the email correspondence between Ms M and the director from January 2020, it appears
that he got married and went on honeymoon around this time. An email from the director
dated 7 January 2020 suggests one final day of work at the property was required to
complete the job and attend to the snagging list. He asked Ms M to leave a comment and a
rating on social media.
The emails Ms M sent to the director around this time contain details of the snagging list,
including issues with spot lights and light switches, filling required around both windows,
boxing up the fuse box, replacement for a cracked window pane and attending to the
entrance hall flooring which was bouncy underfoot.
Ms M explains that workmen attended the property on 9 January 2020. She explains that
they looked around and then went to buy supplies but did not return. In Ms Ms email
dialogue with the director, he explains that members of the team originally assigned to
undertake the work at the property had set up their own businesses which was causing
problems with the outstanding jobs and work that was booked in.
The director was eventually able to agree a completion date of 2 March 2020. Different
workmen attended the property and went through the outstanding work. The workmen did
not return. The director did not respond to any of Ms Ms messages.
In late April 2020, Ms M left a negative review on social media. The director contacted Ms M
and explained that hed had to close the business down and it was no longer operating. He
said hed had trouble sleeping after reading her comment and wanted to make things right.
No further action was taken.
Ms M then found out the limited company had been dissolved whilst undertaking the work at
Mrs Js home. She thought the director had misled Mrs J and tricked her into believing it was
a genuine company when in reality it was due to dissolved and the director knew that when
he asked Mrs J to make the final payment. Ms M contacted Action Fraud and took steps to
report the building firm to Trading Standards.
On 7 May 2020, Ms M contacted Santander on Mrs Js behalf and reported that shed been
the victim of a scam. She wanted the bank to help recover the final payment made on
23 December 2019. Santander says that it contacted the receiving bank the same day.
When Santander looked into things further, including by having a conversation with Mrs J
over the phone on 12 May 2019, it concluded there was nothing more it could do to help.
It felt Mrs J had an established business relationship with the building firm when she made
the final payment. It told the receiving bank to discontinue its enquiries. Santander then sent
two letters to Mrs J saying the situation was a civil dispute.
Ms M disagreed. She was unhappy with the way Santander had investigated the situation
and pointed out that it had not confirmed that it had contacted the receiving bank or what the
outcome of that had been. Ms M said the tone Santander took with Mrs J was
confrontational and not appropriate, especially considering that she was elderly and recently
bereaved. She highlights that Action Fraud had issued a crime reference number in relation
to this matter so there is enough evidence to say a crime has been committed.
On 28 May 2020, Santander issued its final response. It said the payment did not meet the
criteria to be reviewed as a scam payment and that it would be more appropriate to take the
matter to court.Ms M referred Mrs Js complaint to this service. She explained that she was unhappy with
how the bank had handled both its original investigation and the later complaint that was
made about the investigation.
Our Investigator said at the time that Mrs J initially made payments, he didnt think the
director had intended to scam her. He thought it was unusual that the building firm had
carried out work and continued to be in contact after payments had been made if the
intention was to obtain money under false pretences right from the outset.
But he felt the situation had evolved by the time Mrs J made the final payment. He said that
by that point, the director was aware that the company had been dissolved and he
highlighted there was little evidence to show the firm had completed any of the remaining
work. He considered that final payment was covered by the Contingent Reimbursement
Model Code (CRM or the CRM Code) and felt Santander should refund it, along with
interest.
He also said that Santander should have looked into Mrs Js concerns about the level of
service that had been provided and recommended it should pay her £100 in compensation
for the distress and inconvenience the lack of response had caused her.
Santander disagreed that it should be refunding any part of the claim and asked for the
matter to be referred to an Ombudsman. In summary, it said whilst it accepted Mrs J had not
received all of the building work she had employed the building firm to do, it did not agree
the situation was a scam that fell within the scope of the CRM Code. It said it was a failure of
the building firm to discharge the obligations under the contract they had. It felt the banks
policies and procedures had been followed correctly.
It also disagreed that it had provided poor service to Mrs J. It said it had listened to the
recording of the conversation Ms M had referred to and Mrs J was not angry or upset at any
point. The bank concluded there was no signs that its advisor had spoken to her
inappropriately or that she had been treated unreasonably.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
On 7 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to uphold 
this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Having done so, I think Santander dealt with the claim appropriately. I can appreciate that
this will be a considerable disappointment to Mrs J, especially following our Investigators
position. But having looked and considered everything both sides have said and provided,
I can see no basis on which I can fairly instruct Santander to take further action or to refund
the transfer Mrs J made on 23 December 2019. I will explain why.
In this case, Mrs J made four separate payments, initially to an account owned by thebuilding firm and then to an account belonging to the directors girlfriend. In this complaint,
I am only considering whether Santander has any responsibility to refund the final payment
Mrs J made on 23 December 2019. This is because the earlier stages of the job were
completed as expected and have been signed off as being done to the appropriate standard
and comply with the relevant building regulations. Ms M has said the lining of the floor and
the insulation and brickwork were checked and looked to have been done to standard. This
was the first things they did on the job and so justify the earlier payments.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Santander made the payment, it was complying with Mrs Js instructions. At the time,
Mrs J wanted to pay the directors girlfriends account and there was no mistake made as the
money was sent to those account details. As I dont think Santander acted incorrectly by
making the payment, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Mrs J for any
other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Santander
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mrs J made the payment.
The CRM Code
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the
circumstances of the payment Mrs J made and, in particular, whether Santander ought to
reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt
apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
From what I have seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Mrs J finds herself in is
a scam, although I accept and acknowledge that the director has treated her poorly by not
completing the work she has paid for. I think the payment Mrs J made forms part of a civil
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. This means I dont think Santander
is responsible for reimbursing Mrs J because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I can appreciate why Mrs J and her daughter have concerns about the legitimacy of the
company. The director asked for his girlfriend to be paid and they consider that he
deliberately kept the status of his company from them, although this information would have
been in the public domain on the central database for limited company records,
Companies House.
Nonetheless, I broadly accept Ms Ms position that there was a lack of transparency in how
the director chose to run the business. There may well have been some sharp practice in
terms of how the director organised his affairs and documentation. But this doesnt
automatically mean that he was willingly and intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately
setting out to scam Mrs J at the time he requested the money. Its possible the directorasked Mrs J to pay his girlfriend so that he was able to access the funds needed to complete
the work. I am not privy to any further information about the status of the building firms bank
account and I dont have the power to compel the director to provide me with evidence, or to
cross-examine him or have him cross-examined in order to establish his true intentions.
Questionable trading practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be
that the director acted dishonestly and deceitfully by taking payment from Mrs J in
circumstances where he had no intention of completing the remaining work. Companies get
wound up or struck off for many reasons, not all of which are linked to fraud.
I have thought about what Ms M has told us about referring the matter to both Action Fraud
and Trading Standards and obtaining a crime reference number. But I am not currently
aware of any ongoing investigation by Trading Standards or any other authority which would
lead me to safely conclude that there was an intent to defraud Mrs J.
I have seen email conversations Ms M had with the director for quite some time after the
final payment had been made. It seems to me that the director intended to complete the job
but was unable to because members of his team had decided to leave and set up
independently. The directors actions around the time the final payment was made, including
asking Ms M to leave a review on social media and discussing the potential to replace
windows at the front of the property, dont fit a typical pattern of fraudulent activity and are
not strong enough indicators that he had no intention of completing the job.
I do not dispute that not all the work Mrs J paid for was completed and that remedial work is
required to complete some elements of the job to the required standard. On balance, I cant
safely say this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud.
I consider that Mrs Js dissatisfaction with the lack of completion of the contract and the
quality of the work thats been undertaken is a civil dispute rather than a scam. This type of
dispute isnt something that the CRM Code was designed to cover. As such, I dont think
Santander treated Mrs J unfairly when it concluded that it was unable to refund the money
shed paid.
The banks investigation
Ms M felt Santanders investigation into the potential claim was inadequate and she has
highlighted that the bank did not follow up on what happened with the receiving bank.
From the information Santander has provided to me, it did contact the receiving bank on
7 May 2020 when the concerns were first raised. This was an appropriate initial step for
Santander to take to try and assist Mrs J.
But when Santander looked further into the situation, it did not consider Mrs J had been the
victim of an APP scam. It noted she had an ongoing business relationship with the director of
the company and that a not insignificant amount of work towards that contract had already
been undertaken. Santander considered the situation to be a civil dispute. It contacted the
receiving bank to say that no further action needed to be undertaken.
From what Ms M has said about the depth and quality of Santanders investigation, she was
expecting more to be done. She was concerned that Santander was referring Mrs J to
Action Fraud when she had already taken that step. But Santanders actions overall are in
line with what I would expect it to have done in situations such as this. I dont think there was
anything else Santander could or should have done to help Mrs J to try and recover the loss.
Ms M has raised concerns about the level of service Santander provided to Mrs J. Shes
explained that the bank was confrontational over the phone when investigating the claim,
especially considering that Mrs J is elderly and was very recently bereaved. Ive listened to a
recording of the conversation Ms M has raised concerns about. It is a short call and there
are no audible signs that Mrs J is upset or uncomfortable during the conversation. Shespeaks clearly and confidently. I think the questions the banks advisor asks her are
appropriate and relevant to the situation. I have not heard anything that leads me to think the
advisors line of questioning was more akin to an interrogation or that the call was
inappropriate in its nature. Taking everything into account, I think the level of service
Santander provided to Mrs J in this case was acceptable.
Overall
I am sorry to hear what Mrs J and her family have been through. This dispute was the last
thing they needed at an already difficult time. Mrs J has found herself in an unenviable
situation as she has paid a company to undertake a job in good faith and now completing the
work will require more time, effort and expense.
But having considered everything, I dont think Santander treated Mrs J unfairly when it
concluded this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Mrs J isnt
due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could
say that Santander should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss.
It follows that I am not currently minded to make any order or award. I am minded to
conclude that this matter is something that needs to be resolved between the parties through
alternative methods, if they are able to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have invited further comments and evidence from both parties. 
Santander confirmed it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Ms M responded to the provisional decision and said she was incredibly disappointed with 
the proposed outcome. She did not consider the answer to be fair treatment of an elderly 
woman and felt it was placing barriers in front of someone to prevent them from accessing 
the proper services designed to help. 
She highlighted that the company was not a legitimate company right from the offset and it 
should not have taken on any work from the point of applying for dissolution. She said Mrs J 
had been pushed to pay the final instalment when the director had no intention of doing the 
work, which fulfils the criteria to be a fraud or a push scam. 
Ms M added that I was treating the communications from the director as being truthful and 
his attempts to garner sympathy were a lie as the decision to close the company had already 
been made and his workers would have naturally organised alternative employment. 
I have thought carefully about everything that Ms M has said in response. But Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and for much the same 
reasons. 
I do not dispute that the agreement Mrs J entered into with the director did not go as planned 
and its evident that not all of the work that was paid for was completed. I can understand 
entirely why Ms M feels so strongly about what has happened. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I accept there may even have been some sharp practice in terms of how the 
director organised his affairs and documentation. But based on whats been said and 
provided, I cant be as sure as I would need to be that the director set out with an intent to 
defraud Mrs J.Ms M has pointed out that the director would have already known the company was to cease 
trading at the time he accepted the job and this is enough to confirm this is a fraud. Shes 
also pointed out that what the director said in his communications with her was untrue. But 
I have to consider these points alongside all of the other factors that I highlighted in my 
provisional decision and impartially consider everything in the round. 
Having looked at the testimony and evidence thats been provided, on balance, I cant safely 
say it meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. When Mrs J paid the final 
instalment, she was making payments to an account that she had paid previously for a 
director that had provided a service to her. Whilst I accept there was a snagging list and 
work still to be done at the property to complete the job, I consider this to be a case of the 
director failing to honour the agreement by providing a service that fell below the standard 
reasonably expected in some areas. Im not persuaded that the interactions with the director 
can be fairly considered a scam. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs J and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained both here and in my 
provisional decision which is outlined above and forms part of this final decision, I cant fairly 
or reasonably ask Santander to refund the payment she made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman