DRN-2445941
The complaint
Mr W complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined claims that he made
on a pet insurance policy. He also complains about the delays in the decline being
communicated to him and the consequential loss he has incurred as a result of these delays.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint on 3 November 2020. I did this 
because I wanted to explain my reasons for not upholding Mr Ws complaint in more detail. I 
also gave both parties the chance to respond with any additional information they wanted me 
to consider.
For context, I have copied my provisional decision below. This also forms part of this final 
decision.
Mr W had a pet insurance policy with L&G to cover his pet dog, who I will refer to as F.
F became ill on two separate occasions with two different conditions. F received treatment
for these conditions abroad. And Mr W subsequently submitted a claim to L&G for the cost of
the treatments. Mr W says he submitted his claim for these two treatment costs on 12
August 2019.
Then, on 20 September 2019, F became ill again and needed treatment from a vet. Again,
the treatment took place abroad and F was diagnosed with vestibular disease.
On 27 September 2019, Mr W says he called L&G to find out what was happening with his
claim as he hadnt heard anything more from them. Mr W says he was initially told that it
hadnt received his claims, and then on the same day it said that it was declining the claim
on the basis that treatment costs were incurred outside of the UK and were not covered
under the policy.
Mr W was unhappy with this. He says it wasnt made clear to him that F wouldnt be covered
for treatment outside of the UK, and had he have known this he would have taken out
another policy that would have covered F.
Mr W has also complained about the length of time it took for L&G to decline his claim. He
says that if L&G had told him sooner that F wasnt covered, then he would have taken out
another policy that would have covered F while in abroad. He says this would have meant F
would have been covered for the third treatment cost (for vestibular disease), and this
condition wouldnt be considered pre-existing under any new policy.
L&G responded to Mr Fs complaint to say it had fairly declined the claim. But it
acknowledged the delay in it declining Mr Ws claim and so it offered to pay him £50 to
compensate him for this.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr W. He thought L&G had fairly declined the
claim based on the policy terms and conditions. He also thought that L&G had offered a fair
amount for the delay in it declining the claim.
Mr W didnt agree. He said (in summary) he wasnt complaining about the decline of the two
initial treatments. And that his complaint stems more from the delay in L&G letting him know
that his claim had been declined  and the impact and consequential loss this has had on
him.
Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information available to me, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr
Ws complaint. And Ill explain my reason for this below.
Declined Claim.
While I appreciate Mr W says his main concerns are now about the delay in L&G responding
to him, I still think I need to make a finding on whether L&G were fair to decline the claim in
the first place. Mr W still says that information about treatment abroad wasnt made clear to
him, and he says the information in the policy documents are misleading.
On the front page of the policy book that relates to Mr Ws policy it says:
You are entitled to use the services of any registered veterinary practitioner in the UK,
Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
So F would have been covered for treatment within the UK, Channel Islands and the Isle of
Man.
Looking at the policy documents Mr W and L&G has sent us, it doesnt specifically state
anywhere that F would be covered for treatment outside UK, Channel Islands and the Isle of
Man. It also doesnt state F wouldnt be covered. But I think the intention of this term is to
only insure treatment that has happened in the covered areas. It would be unreasonable for
a policy document to include absolutely everything it didnt cover.
Mr Ws says that this term wasnt made clear to him, and had it been, he would have taken
out a different policy that would have covered F for treatment outside of the UK. The term
that L&G declined the claim on isnt an unusual one. It is quite standard for most UK
insurance policies to only cover events that happen in the UK. And so, I dont think that this
is something that would or should have been specifically pointed out to Mr W. And had the
policy provided cover for outside of the UK, Id expect it to have been included in the key
facts document as a feature of the cover, and it doesnt mention this.
Because Fs treatments took place outside of UK, Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, I
agree that F wasnt covered for treatment abroad, and so I think it was fair of L&G to decline
the claim.
Mr W has sent me a copy of what he says is the policy book that related to this L&G policyhe
says that the statement is very misleading. It says:
This policy is valid if your home address is in the UK, Chanel Islands or Isle of Man.
Mr W hasnt provided me with the whole policy book, so I dont know if this relates to thesame policy Mr W had with L&G or not. However, even if I accept that this was in the policy
book that applied to Mr Ws policy at the time L&G declined the claim, it doesnt change my
provisional decision on the outcome of Mr Ws claim. While I agree that this term might have
been misleading to Mr W, I cant ignore that the policy documents say that F was covered at
any vets in the UK (Channel Islands and Isle of Man). The extract Mr W has sent me, above,
means that if Mr W didnt live in the UK, then the whole policy would be invalid, and he
wouldnt be able to claim on it for anything.
So while I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr W to find out that F wasnt covered
for treatment abroad, I dont think that L&G has acted unreasonably in declining the claim
and not pointing this particular term out to him in the first instance.
Delays in claim outcome and consequential loss
Theres no dispute that there was a delay in L&G letting Mr W know that his claim had been
declined. L&G has already accepted this and offered to pay Mr W £50 to compensate him for
this.
So its now for me to decide if L&G has done enough to compensate Mr W here. And based
on all the information Ive seen so far, I think it has.
Mr W says he submitted his claim on 12 August 2019 and it was only when he contacted
L&G on 27 September 2019 that he found out his claim had been declined. However, based
on the information Ive received from L&G, it looks like it first received his claim on 20 August
2019.
Mr W says if L&G had let him know the outcome of the claim sooner, he would have
arranged cover for F elsewhere. And this would have led to F being covered for the third set
of treatment costs (for vestibular disease), and any further treatment relating to this condition
wouldnt be considered pre-existing. But I dont currently agree with this.
Any claim takes time to consider by an insurer. Even when the issue is relatively
straightforward. So, L&G would have needed a reasonable amount of time to consider the
claim.
F received treatment and diagnosis for, vestibular disease, on 20 September 2019. If I
accept that Mr W submitted his claim on 12 August 2019, F visited the vets for the third
illness around 5-6 weeks after Mr W submitted the claim.
Even if L&G had taken three weeks to decline the claim he made on 12 August 2019, and Mr
W had taken out a new insurance policy immediately, I still think it unlikely that Mr W would
have been covered for this condition. And so I dont think Mr W has lost out as a result of
L&G not declining the claim sooner.
I say this because, Mr W has sent us a copy of parts of the policy documents for the new
policy he took out to cover F. I can see that it says under that it will not pay out for any costs
relating to treatment for any illness or injury that was first present at the time the policy
started, or where there were signs of illness within the first 21 days of the policy starting. So
Fs illness and treatment is likely to have occurred within the first 21 days of the policy
starting.
Its not unusual that insurance cover has a period at the start of a policy where a claim cant
be made for anything that happened in that period. Based on the above, the new policy Mr
W took out says that he wouldnt be able to make a claim for anything that F became ill with
or showed signs of illness within the first 21 days of inception. So even if L&G had dealt withMr Fs claim quicker, I still dont think hed have been able to make a successful claim for
vestibular disease  and its likely that any further treatment for this condition still wouldnt
have been covered.
If Mr W had been aware of the waiting period, then I imagine that he might have tried to get
a policy with a lesser waiting period. I think it would have been difficult for him to find a policy
with a lesser waiting period than the one he took out  21 days is about normal. But in any
event, I dont think he could have foreseen F becoming ill again, and so he may not have
even taken cover out straight away.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I think the £50 L&G has offered Mr W for the delay in it
communicating the outcome of the claim to him is fair. And I dont think Mr W has suffered
any consequential loss as a result of these delays.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. 
L&G responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr W responded with a copy of the policy terms and conditions, and a response. Id like to 
thank Mr W for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. I have read everything 
he has sent me carefully. Much of the points he has raised, have already been covered in 
my provisional decision, and so I wont be reiterating these same points again in this 
decision. But I will look at the below points he has made, as these werent previously 
covered:
Mr W provides an extract from his new policy document, with another insurer, that 
provides clarity on the geographical areas of cover.
Mr W doesnt agree with my interpretation of a reasonable amount of time to deal 
with a claim. Mr W explains that in his line of work, five working days would be an 
acceptable amount of time to do a full investigation. 
Mr W has more recently had issues with L&G sending him communication about a 
renewal.
L&G didnt tell him that they offer a policy where F would be covered for European 
travel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint.
As Ive said, I have already covered most of the points Mr W raised in my provisional 
decision, but I will also respond to the additional points he raised here.
Mr W provides an extract from his new policy document, with another insurer, that provides 
clarity on the geographical areas of cover.
Just because another policy document with a different insurer might cover the specific point 
Mr W has raised about geographical cover, this doesnt mean that what L&G did was wrong 
or that the policy terms and conditions were unclear. The purpose of the terms and 
conditions is to explain what is covered under the policy. It also explains some events that wont be covered, but as Mr W agrees, it would be unreasonable for the document to cover 
everything that isnt insured. The policy terms and conditions say:
You are entitled to use the services of any registered veterinary practitioner in the UK,
Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
So, this clearly states that F could use the services of any vet in the UK, Channel Islands 
and the Isle of Man. The fact that other geographical areas arent mentioned at all would 
suggest that services outside of the specified areas wouldnt be included in the cover. 
While Mr Ws new insurer might specifically say where isnt covered, it doesnt mean that 
L&G did anything wrong by only stating where would be covered.
Mr W doesnt agree with my interpretation of a reasonable amount of time to deal with a 
claim. Mr W explains that in his line of work, five working days would be an acceptable 
amount of time to do a full investigation. 
Mr W says that in his line of work, five working days would be the target time to investigate 
something. I have taken this point on board, but this decision isnt about how quickly Mr Ws 
work offers resolutions. And it wouldnt be fair of me to hold L&G to the same standard. This 
is about what would be considered a reasonable amount of time. 
Mr W has said that he posted the claim form to L&G on 12 August 2019, and so he says it 
should have been received by 14th August 2020. L&G then began to process his claim on 
20th August 2019. I dont find this to be an unreasonable amount of time to start the claim 
process  this is four working days after it ought to have received the form.
L&G as already apologised for mis-processing his claim  it has offered him £50 for this. I 
explained in my provisional decision why I think this is fair, and why I dont think Mr W has 
lost out anything more as a result of these delays. 
Mr W has more recently had issues with L&G sending him communication about a renewal.
I wont be considering this issue, as this is something that has happened more recently, and 
L&G hasnt had a chance to investigate this so it wouldnt be fair for me to make a finding on 
this point in this decision.
L&G didnt tell him that they offer a policy where F would be covered for European travel.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr W asked L&G for a policy which covered 
European travel. And I imagine it is unlikely that it would have been aware Mr W was 
travelling in Europe until it received the claim forms  at which point it would have been too 
late for F to be covered for European travel anyway. Because at the point in which F 
received treatment, Mr W was paying the premiums for a policy that provided cover in UK, 
Channel Islands and the Isle of Man only.
There was no requirement for L&G to let Mr W know about a policy that could have covered 
F for European travel. And even if Mr W had been offered this cover, and he had chosen to 
take it, its unlikely F would have been covered retrospectively for the treatment costs Mr W 
incurred while he was away. And its likely he would have had to take out a new policy for the 
European cover, which would probably have excluded any of the conditions F had already 
been treated for. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman