DRN-3329653
The complaint
Mr K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined his legal liability 
claim.
Ageas use intermediaries to administer their policy and manage claims on their behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In brief summary, Mr K made a claim under the landlords legal liability 
section of his policy after his tenant was injured on the stairs in his property and made a 
legal claim against him. But Ageas declined the claim as they said Mr K had failed to 
adequately maintain the staircase and keep it in a state of good repair.
Mr K complained this was unfair and referred his complaint to this service, where the matter 
was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
The policy terms and conditions state that Ageas will cover landlords legal liability:
Up to £2,000,000 unless stated otherwise on your schedule for which you 
are legally liable to pay as compensation for accidental death or injury to any 
person or loss or damage to third party property arising directly as a 
consequence of your ownership of the property, including defence costs and 
expenses incurred without prior consent.
Ageas declined Mr Ks legal liability claim citing the following exclusion:
Loss, damage or injury as a result of Your failure to adequately maintain the 
Property in a good state of repair.
However, the policy terms and conditions show that this exclusion is only applicable 
to section 2: Landlords contents; 12 Employees liability. Mr K has not made a claim 
under this section, and neither is his legal defence concerning employee liability. His 
claim has been made under section 3 of the policy, where this exclusion does not 
feature. It is not clear why Ageas has sought to decline the claim using an exclusion 
from another section of the policy. But given that it is not listed as an exclusion 
applicable to section 3, the insurer cannot decline the claim on this basis.
Ageas has also cited the following conditions as a reason for not paying the claim:
You must take actions to prevent loss or damage to your property and 
ensure that your property and equipment is maintained in a good state of 
repair.
You must take all steps to prevent incidents that may give rise to a claim and 
to minimise the amount payable by us.
The insurer said that Mr K had not kept the staircase maintained in a good state of 
repair, which led to the tenants injury. They reached this conclusion based on a 
report submitted by Mr Ks carpenter, but I do not consider they have sufficiently 
demonstrated that Mr K has failed to comply with the above conditions. 
The fact that the tenant was injured on the stairs does not automatically mean that 
the staircase was not properly maintained. The report from the carpenter states that it 
was very unusual for the steps to have collapsed and that the reason for the 
collapse was that the stair string had warped inwards which was also very unusual 
in an enclosed staircase. The expert concluded that no one could have said with 
any certainty the step would indeed collapse and he also remarked that the top steps 
were still of exceptional quality, which one would have expected to deteriorate first.
So, in light of this report, it is not clear on what basis the insurer has concluded the 
Mr K has failed to keep the staircase in a good state of repair, or that the tenants 
injury was caused by this. Indeed, the report states that the bottom steps that gave 
way had previously been repaired, and that this work had been done with due 
diligence. Mr K also said he had previously had the staircase serviced. So everything 
Ive seen indicates that action had been taken by Mr K to keep the stairs well 
maintained in a good state of repair. Ageas also hasnt sufficiently demonstrated that 
Mr K failed to take steps to minimise the chances of a claim  for example, theres 
nothing to suggest Mr K was alerted to a fault with the stars that he failed to address 
before the tenant was injured. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that Ageas has declined the claim fairly in these 
circumstances, and I intend directing it to reconsider Mr Ks claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Mr K is also unhappy with the way the insurer has handled his claim, as they often 
failed to keep him updated and call him back when they promised to do so. And 
having considered the way Ageas has handled this matter  coupled with the fact 
that they have not acted fairly or reasonably when declining the claim  Im inclined 
to agree that their handling of the claim has been significantly poor. Ageas 
acknowledged that the service theyve provided has not been satisfactory and agreed 
to pay £75 compensation. But I do not consider this to be commensurate to the way 
theyve handled the claim. I therefore intend directing Ageas to pay a further £175 on 
top of the £75 theyve already offered (£250 in total), which I consider to be fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Ageas responded and explained 
that they had already accepted liability with the claimants solicitor on 23 July 2021, and their 
liability team are currently awaiting a medical report. Mr K said he had not been made aware 
of this, but did not put forwards any further submissions or evidence for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision, albeit Ageas appear to have already reconsidered the claim after initially declining 
it, but without informing anyone they were doing so.Therefore, Ageas may want to inform Mr K and their intermediaries that the claim has since 
been accepted, as it appears neither of these parties have been made aware of this. Davies 
Group, for example, continued to defend the reasons for declining the legal liability claim as 
late as October 2021  three months after Ageas say they accepted liability with the 
claimants solicitor. Mr K has also told us that he has not been informed of Ageass decision 
in this regard.
This all further demonstrates the significantly poor handling of this claim on the part of both 
Ageas and their intermediaries, who evidently need to improve overall communication, and 
further validates the increase in compensation I recommended in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Ageas says it has since accepted the claim. But seeing as no other parties 
seem to be aware of this, I will still be directing the insurer to reconsider the claim and pay 
compensation as set out in my provisional decision. If Mr K accepts this decision, Ageas 
should get in contact with him as soon as possible to update him on the current status of his 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider Mr Ks legal liability claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions;
Pay a total of £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman