DRN-3534985
The complaint
Mr G complains that Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) didnt offer their new higher savings rate 
on his account with them and then refused to back date and apply that rate.   
What happened
Mr G had a 120-day notice savings account (issue 20) with Paragon. In or around June 
2021, Paragon released a new version of the account under issue 21. The new issue 
attracted a higher rate of interest.
In or around November 2021, Mr G called Paragon about his existing savings account. 
Having confirmed the balance held and rate that applied, Mr G wanted to know why their 
new rate hadnt been applied to his savings. Paragon said that as the new issue was a 
separate account, the rate Mr G currently benefitted from wouldnt change. They also said 
that Mr G hadnt specified that he wanted to receive marketing information from them. This 
meant they werent able to send him information about any new products available.
Mr G explained that due to serious health issues during 2021, hed been hospitalised for an 
extended period. This meant he wasnt able to keep track of his financial situation or any 
new products or rates offered by Paragon. He thought Paragon should show some sympathy 
towards his situation and retrospectively apply the new higher rate to his savings. He offered 
to send a letter to a senior manager or executive to consider his situation.
Paragon said they could consider an option for early withdrawal without incurring a penalty 
or giving notice. Paragon couldnt guarantee Mr Gs application would be successful. But a 
request could be considered based upon his personal circumstances together with any 
supporting information or documents Mr G might choose to send. If successful, this would 
result in closure of all accounts Mr G held with Paragon with funds being returned to him. But 
this wouldnt be an option where he was transferring the funds to a new higher rate issue. 
Mr G felt it was unfair of Paragon not to allow him to benefit from the new higher rate issue 
and retrospectively apply it. He wanted to speak to a director of Paragon but that wasnt 
possible. So, Paragon agreed to set up a complaint for Mr G to be investigated.
Paragon responded to Mr Gs complain in a letter on 20 November 2021. They 
acknowledged Mr Gs circumstances but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They 
provided details of how Mr G could give notice to close his existing account and open a new 
(issue 21) account.
Mr G wasnt happy with Paragons response to his complaint. So, he wrote back giving 120 
days notice on his existing account with funds to be transferred to his nominated account 
with them. He also wanted Paragon to provide contact details for their Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) so that he could deal with them direct.
Paragon wrote to Mr G again on 16 December 2021. They said that as theyd not received 
any further evidence, they were unable to change their decision. They said their response 
had been reviewed and approved by a senior director. Paragon also provided Mr G with 
details of a new 120-day notice account with a higher rate of 1.00%.
After further written exchanges, Mr G decided to refer his complaint to this service. Paragon 
told this service they were unable to change the outcome of Mr Gs complaint. But they did 
acknowledge there had been some other service issues since they issued their final 
response to him. This delayed Mr G receiving the funds from his notice account. They 
offered £30 as compensation for those subsequent issues.
Having considered the circumstances here, our investigator didnt think Paragon had done 
anything wrong or made a mistake. He also didnt agree that Paragon had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought Paragon were unsympathetic 
to his circumstances and as a result, were treating him unfairly. He suggested Paragon had 
asked for evidence of his hospitalisation and subsequently withdrawn that request. He 
thought this was unreasonable and suggested it hadnt been required by other financial 
institutions hed spoken to. Mr G also wasnt happy that Paragon had refused to provide 
contact details for their CEO.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account Mr G held was Paragons 120-day notice savings account (issue 20). At the 
time of Mr Gs complaint to Paragon, the rate on his account remained unchanged at 0.45%. 
Although this was a variable rate account, Paragons terms and conditions meant they were 
under no obligation to increase that rate. 
The higher rate Mr G refers to related to Paragons 120-day notice savings account (issue 
21). This was a new and separate account. To benefit from the new issue, Mr G needed to 
specifically apply for that account. That rate couldnt be applied to any existing account or 
issue number. Transferring funds from his existing account would also require him to give 
notice of 120 days.
Mr G explained that due to his personal circumstances and a resulting period of 
hospitalisation, he wasnt aware of the new issue or able to deal proactively with his 
finances. I do appreciate this wouldve been a very difficult and worrying time for Mr G. But I 
dont think Paragon could reasonably have been expected to be aware of his circumstances.
Paragon have confirmed that Mr G hadnt elected to receive marketing updates from them. 
This meant they couldnt send him any information about new products, rates or services 
they had available. So, I also cant reasonably hold Paragon responsible if Mr G wasnt 
made aware of the new rate when it was issued or for not ensuring the new rate applied to 
his existing savings. 
Mr G says that when he spoke to Paragon, they requested evidence of his hospitalisation. 
Having listened to recordings of the telephone conversations, Im unable to agree with Mr 
Gs recollection. Paragon were referring to their early withdrawal option, which it was 
established didnt apply in Mr Gs circumstances here anyway. In addition, they didnt 
specifically request that information, only that he could provide any evidence he felt would 
help, then giving examples.
Mr G suggests Paragon requested more evidence in their responses to his complaint. A 
request he says they later withdrew. Again, Im unable to agree. Their letter said they werent 
able to change the outcome of Mr Gs complaint in the absence of any new evidence. I dont 
consider this a request for evidence  only confirming that the decision was based upon all 
the information they had, and as Mr G hadnt provided anything new, it couldnt be 
reconsidered.
Mr G is also unhappy that Paragon wouldnt provide contact details for their CEO. I can 
understand why they might say that, and I dont think they were obliged to provide those details. Paragon told Mr G his complaint would be considered by their complaint specialists. 
Thats what happened here and is what I would expect to see. 
Mr G told our investigator that he hadnt said Paragon had made an error. Only that theyd 
acted unfairly and unsympathetically towards him and his circumstances. I do acknowledge 
Mr Gs strength of feeling here. My role is to independently decide whether Paragon made a 
mistake or did anything wrong. And whether, as a result, Mr G was treated unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
I realise Mr G will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Paragon did anything 
wrong. And while I understand his point of view, Paragon are under no obligation to make 
special exceptions, despite his personal circumstances. That would be a business decision 
for them and not one this service is able to influence.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman