DRN-2203957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt fully explain the eligibility criteria set
out in their travel insurance policy, which they hold as a benefit of their packaged bank
account. This meant a claim they made on the policy wasnt covered.
What happened
HSBC sold Mr and Mrs P a Premier packaged bank account. Theyve held this account for
around 20 years. One of the benefits of this account is a travel insurance policy for the
account holders and their children, in certain defined circumstances. HSBC doesnt
underwrite (provide) the insurance or decide whether claims are covered under the policy.
In May 2019, Mrs P visited her local HSBC branch to ask if her daughter would be covered
for travelling abroad independently. Mr and Mrs P say they were told she would be. A couple
of months later, Mr and Mrs Ps son was due to travel alone. They say Mrs P checked the
policy documentation to see if hed be covered. The product information document and front
page of the policy wording suggested he would be. So Mr and Mrs P didnt arrange a
separate policy to cover his trip.
Unfortunately, Mr Ps son suffered an injury while he was abroad and needed emergency
treatment. Mr and Mrs P made a claim to the policy insurer for his medical expenses. The
insurer turned down the claim. Thats because, while dependent children under 23 years of
age are covered by the policy terms, they needed to be accompanied by a close relative
over 23 years of age in order to be insured while travelling. The insurer also informed Mr and
Mrs P that it couldnt set up a new policy at his point, because their sons trip was already
underway.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the way their claim had been handled and call backs not
being made when theyd been promised. They complained to HSBC.
HSBC paid Mr and Mrs P £30 compensation for its failure to call them back when it said it
would. It said travel insurance was arranged on a non-advised basis and Mr and Mrs P had
been given the product literature. It said it was their responsibility to check the policy
wording. It also said it sent annual eligibility statements each year, which set out the full
eligibility criteria.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and they asked us to look into their complaint about HSBC.
They felt HSBC hadnt appropriately disclosed what was and wasnt covered; there was a
discrepancy between what the information document said and the actual policy wording; it
hadnt recorded discussions between it and Mr P on its systems; and it hadnt met a moral
obligation to arrange alternative cover for their son while he was on the trip.
Ultimately our investigator let Mr and Mrs P know that HSBC wasnt responsible for drafting
the terms of the policy  that was down to the insurer. So he suggested they should make a
new complaint to the underwriter of the policy about the clarity of the policy wording and the
claims decision.
Mr and Mrs P felt it was irrelevant who the ultimate insurer was when considering whether
the appropriate disclosures had been made.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong that it needed to put right. I 
said:
As the investigator explained, HSBC is not responsible for the wording of the policy; the way
it was drafted or the key facts information. That is the responsibility of the policy underwriter.
HSBC and the insurer are two, separate legal entities, both independently regulated by the
industry regulator. So while I understand Mr and Mrs P are frustrated about this, I cant hold
HSBC responsible if there were any deficiencies in the insurers documents. That issue will
be looked at separately as a new complaint against the underwriter.
All I can consider when making this decision are the activities which HSBC is responsible for
 the sale of the policy and the information provided to Mr and Mrs P in branch.
HSBC did arrange the travel insurance as part of Mr and Mrs Ps packaged bank account. It
didnt advise them to take out the insurance, so it didnt need to check it was suitable for
their needs. But it did need to provide Mr and Mrs P with clear information about the policy,
so they could decide if it was right for them. HSBC needed to ensure it provided them with a
copy of the policy terms and conditions. And draw any significant, onerous or unusual terms
to their attention.
Mr and Mrs P acknowledge they have a copy of the policy terms and conditions. Id have
expected HSBC to explain the broad eligibility criteria for the travel insurance to Mr and Mrs
P when the insurance was arranged. Given they say theyve had the account for around 20
years though, I think its unlikely thered be much available evidence to show what they were
told when it was sold. And as their family wouldve been very young at this point, I dont think
the need for children to be travelling with an adult to be covered wouldve been very
important to them; as the children were extremely unlikely to ever have been travelling
alone.
Even if HSBC didnt highlight the eligibility criteria at the point of sale though, I dont think it
makes a difference here. Thats because Ive seen a copy of an eligibility letter that was sent
to Mrs P (as the eligible policyholder) by HSBC in July 2018. The front page of the letter
includes a table setting out those eligible for travel insurance cover. This table clearly says:
Children are only covered when travelling with you or your partner, or travelling with close
relatives who are over 23 years of age or travelling independently on a school/college trip
with teachers/lecturers.
So I think HSBC did enough to let Mr and Mrs P know about the eligibility criteria relating to
children travelling. I appreciate theyve told us that Mrs P visited their local branch and were
led to believe their younger daughter would be independently covered for a holiday abroad.
Ive thought about this. But Mr and Mrs P also say that Mrs P subsequently looked at the
policy documents before deciding not to arrange standalone cover for their son. It was also
open to them to call the insurer directly to check cover, rather than the bank branch, which is
unlikely to have specialist knowledge about the travel insurance. So I dont think I can fairly
hold HSBC responsible for Mrs P deciding not to take out a standalone policy for her son.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
HSBC had nothing further to add.Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They made a number of detailed points. Ive summarised the main 
ones:
They dont think HSBC has the right to abdicate its responsibilities to act in good faith 
and to uphold its duty of care to its customers by ensuring that its product treats 
customers fairly.
HSBC shouldve checked the product summary and key facts documents to ensure 
they were representative of the intended product it was promoting. It cant label 
products under its own brand and then abdicate responsibility for whats provided.
Theyd never seen the eligibility letter of July 2018. But even if the letter did include 
the need for children to travel with a close relative, why had HSBC included this in an 
eligibility letter, but not in the policy summary or key facts. They said these are the 
documents policyholders rely on.
Policyholders dont read the full policy terms and conditions unless they need to. Key 
facts documents and policy summaries should set out the main clauses and then 
direct policyholders to read the full policy terms if they need to.
Customers should be able to rely on the policy summary information. These 
documents suggested dependent children would be covered, with no reference to the 
need for them to be accompanied by an adult. With no guidance to read other 
clauses, they took the policy summary at face value. If the policy summary had been 
silent on child coverage, theyd have checked the policy wording.
When Mrs P had been considering the policy documents, shed sadly lost her father. 
Burying material facts in the policy terms is a disgrace to the insurance industry.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs P, I think HSBC has treated them fairly. Ill explain why.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs P for their detailed response to my provisional findings. Id like to 
reassure them that while Ive summarised their points, Ive read and considered them in 
detail. Its clear how strongly they feel about their complaint. Im sorry to hear about the 
familys sad loss. And Im sorry that they feel I havent looked into their key complaint issues.
But as I explained in my provisional decision, HSBC simply isnt responsible for the way the 
policy terms and conditions, or the product literature are drafted. Thats solely the 
responsibility of the policy insurer, a separate legal entity with differing regulatory obligations. 
So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider the clarity of the policy documentation when 
considering a complaint about HSBCs actions. Or to hold HSBC responsible for the way the 
insurer dealt with the claim. The clarity of the policy literature will be looked at as part of Mr 
and Mrs Ps complaint against the policy insurer in due course.  
HSBCs regulatory obligations when selling insurance as part of a packaged bank account 
are to provide enough clear information about the policy to allow a consumer to make an 
informed choice about whether to take it out. It must provide a copy of the policy terms. And 
it must highlight any significant or onerous restrictions on cover. I explained in my provisional 
decision why I think theres unlikely to be much evidence to show what happened when the 
account was sold around 20 years beforehand and whether HSBC did highlight the key 
terms. But I also explained why I dont think cover for unaccompanied children wouldve 
been likely to impact on Mr and Mrs Ps decision-making at the time. And its clear that 
HSBC has provided Mr and Mrs P with copies of the policy documents over the years.Additionally, HSBC is obliged to send its packaged bank account customers annual eligibility 
statements setting out the eligibility requirements for each of the insurance products which 
come with the account. As I explained, Ive seen a copy of the eligibility letter HSBC sent to 
Mrs P in July 2018, which clearly explained the eligibility criteria for the travel insurance 
policy. This included the fact that children needed to be accompanied by a close relative in 
order to be covered. 
Mr and Mrs P say they never had sight of this letter. So I asked HSBC to send me a copy of 
the letter that was sent. Its provided me with a copy of the letter, together with evidence of 
the date it was posted out. The letter was addressed to the correct address on file that 
HSBC had for Mrs P at the time (although it also explained Mrs P had changed addresses 
the following year). So Im satisfied that HSBC met its regulatory obligations to send out the 
annual eligibility statement and that this letter made the eligibility criteria relating to children 
clear.
Overall, having considered everything, I still dont think HSBC has done anything wrong that 
it needs to put right. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman