DRN-2582644
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) defaulted his account and didnt tell 
him about the change of debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr P was made unemployed in May 2018 and was struggling to pay Vanquis. He spoke to 
Vanquis in October 2018 and agreed to pay £20 per month. The first payment of £10 on 1 
November 2018 wasnt made. A Notice of Default was sent to Mr P. He didnt pay anything 
to Vanquis. In January 2019, the account was defaulted. The debt was passed to a debt 
collection agency (DCA1). In April 2019, the debt was passed back to Vanquis. In October 
2019, Mr P was told by Vanquis that his debt was still with DCA 1. In September 2020, no 
payments had been received and Vanquis sold the debt to another debt collection agency 
(DCA2). 
Mr P complained that he shouldve been given the chance to get back on his feet in 
November 2018 and December 2018  rather than going ahead and defaulting him. And 
because he was misinformed in October 2019 that his debt was still with DCA1 (and not with 
Vanquis), he couldnt go ahead and make any payments.
Vanquis said that they were sorry that Mr P was misadvised in October 2019 that his debt 
was with DCA1. They paid £25 compensation. The last payment made to Vanquis was in 
May 2018. Because the agreed payment plan wasnt followed in November 2018, a Notice of 
Default was sent to Mr P. No payments were received, and a default was registered on Mr 
Ps credit file. The debt was passed to DCA1 in January 2019. It was returned to Vanquis in 
April 2019. Mr P was advised of this in August 2019 when he complained to Vanquis. 
Because no payments were received, the debt was sold to DCA2 in September 2020. They 
said that I was Mr Ps responsibility to make payments or make sure a plan is put in place. 
Vanquis had a responsibility to report accurate data to credit reference agencies  and Mr 
Ps default would stand.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Vanquis had acted 
reasonably. A payment plan had been agreed in October 2018  but Mr P hadnt followed it. 
So, it was OK for them to default Mr P in January 2019. Vanquis had apologised for their 
mis-communication on October 2019 and paid compensation of £25 for that. Their letter of 
August 2019 said that the debt had been transferred from DCA1 to them. But it was up to Mr 
P to make efforts to repay the debt  whoever it was with.
Mr P asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has two complaints  that Vanquis shouldnt have defaulted him; and that he didnt 
know who was managing his debt  so he hadnt made any payments.
Mr P was in financial difficulty - he was unemployed from May 2018. Businesses have an 
obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) says that businesses like Vanquis should treat customers in difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive 
interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their 
debt. So  I need to consider whether Vanquis did act in accordance with this guidance 
when dealing with Mr P.
From May 2018, Vanquis gave him some time to sort himself out until October 2018, when 
he called them. Ive listened to this call. The call hander was very sympathetic. She went 
through Mr Ps income and expenditure. A payment plan of £20 per month was agreed. The 
first payment was £10 on 1 November 2018, and £20 per month after that. The terms of the 
plan were read out  including a request that Mr P should get in touch if he couldnt pay. He 
was on income support. The only expenditure declared by Mr P was his mobile phone 
contract. There were no other debts. He was living with his parents  so £20 per month 
seemed affordable. Interest and charges were stopped.
Unfortunately, Mr P didnt make the payments. So, Vanquis sent him a Notice of Default on 
13 November 2018  as Mr Ps payments hadnt been made, this asked that a payment of 
£304.56 was needed by 2 December 2018. No payments were again received, so the 
default was registered on Mr Ps credit file in January 2019 and the debt passed to DCA1. 
The guidance from the Information Commissioners office (ICO) is that defaults should be 
registered where payments havent been made for three months or more. Mr P hadnt made 
any since May 2018  so Vanquis were correct in registering the default. And like all lenders, 
Vanquis have a responsibility to report information to credit reference agencies.
So, the actions taken by Vanquis regarding Mr Ps default were correct. And, Vanquis did 
treat Mr P with forbearance  as they agreed with him a realistic payment plan  and without 
interest or charges. 
Mr P says that he didnt make any payments to his debt because he wasnt certain who was 
managing it. The debt was passed to DCA1 in January 2019, and then passed back to 
Vanquis in April 2019 when DCA1 couldnt agree a plan with Mr P. Its not clear what 
happened between then and August 2019 when Mr P complained to Vanquis. But in their 
response dated 19 August 2019, they said the debt was with them  and unless repayments 
were made, it could be passed to another debt collection agency. They also asked him to 
contact their financial difficulties department to agree a payment plan. Unfortunately, when 
Mr P called them in October 2019, he was wrongly told that the debt was with DCA1. 
In September 2019, it had been sold to DCA2. 
I can see where Mr P is coming from  he says he didnt know who to contact or who to pay. 
So, he couldnt set up a payment plan. And if he had, he would be in a better position now. 
But equally, he hadnt made any payments since May 2018. And the responsibility for the 
debt and its repayment was his  so I dont think he can fairly argue that it wasnt up to him. 
He could easily have called either DCA1 or Vanquis to deal with the debt, or agree a 
payment plan, but he didnt.
I agree that Vanquis made a mistake in telling Mr P in October 2019 that his debt was with 
DCA1  but looking at everything here, I dont think this should have caused Mr P to not try 
to deal with his debt. And Vanquis did apologise for what happened and paid compensation 
of £25, which I think was fair.So, in summary, I dont think Vanquis did anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.  I hope the Mr P will now get in touch with DCA2 and agree a sensible 
payment plan.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman