DRN-2284195
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a 
conditional sale agreement with Money Barn No.1 Limited (MBL).
The complaint has been brought to us by Mr Ws representative, Mrs W, however to keep 
things simple, Ive referred to Mr W throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
On 18 July 2019 Mr W acquired a second-hand car through a conditional sale agreement 
with MBL. The car was registered in December 2011, which means it was about seven years 
and seven months old at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was £8,999 and 
the mileage was 57,581. Mr W put down a deposit of £229 which meant that the credit 
agreement was for £8,770 payable over 52 months with interest.
Mr W has explained that since acquiring the car hes experienced a number of oil leaks 
which has resulted in him losing faith in the car and wanting to reject it.
Mr W has also complained that the car wasnt in the condition hed expected when he 
collected it. Mr W says the dealer painted the alloys when he expected them to be powder 
coated, and that the service, water pump and timing belt replacements hadnt been carried 
out when the dealer said they would.
Mr W complained to MBL in September 2019 about the issues he was having with the car. 
MBL provided Mr W with their final response (FRL) in October 2019. MBL didnt uphold Mr 
Ws complaint. MBL explained that a successful repair for an oil leak had been carried out on 
the car, and that Mr W had confirmed there were no further issues following the last repair.
MBL also explained that should the last repair fail, theyd then consider if a rejection of the 
car would be a possible outcome for him.
Mr W says his car has experienced further oil leaks since receiving MBLs FRL, which he 
says has been brought to the dealer for repairs.
In February 2020 Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ws concerns and contacted the supplying dealer for further information. The dealer 
explained that theyd repaired an oil leak on Mr Ws car on two occasions in 2019. Once to 
replace the oil filter and the other occasion was to replace a seal.
Mr W has provided us with a customer assistance report dated 8 March 2020, from a 
roadside recovery company, which Ill refer to as B. Mr W says he called B out because his 
car had broken down and had a suspected oil leak.
The report supplied by B, identified the following diagnostic warnings:
Neutral position sensor, implausible signal
No communication with steering wheel
Exhaust gas recirculation Sensor A Circuit Range/Performance
EGR valve
Electrical heating sidemirror, driver side
Mr W told us that during the recovery, B advised him that a safety function had been 
disabled by the previous owner, which enabled the diagnostic warning, no communication 
with steering wheel, to display. Mr W believes this is a safety issue which needs to be fixed.
In an email sent to our investigator in August 2020 Mr W confirmed the car had no other oil 
leaks.
In October 2020 our investigator completed his review of Mr Ts complaint and concluded 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. However, as the 
repairs appeared to have been successful, the investigator decided there were no grounds 
for Mr W to reject the car. The Investigator asked MBL to investigate and repair the 
diagnostic warning, no communication with steering wheel, as identified in Bs report from 
March 2020, pay any repair costs incurred by Mr W beyond fair wear and tear, and 
compensate Mr W £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with the investigators view. He wanted to reject the car and felt he 
should be compensated for loss of work due to having to take the car into the dealer for 
repairs. So, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In May 2021 Mr W explained to us that he had called B out to attend to his car for a 
suspected oil leak. The fault report supplied by B, dated 11 May 2021 came with the 
following comments:
Inspected fuel leak found loose union under bonnet lift pump. Re-secured union no 
visible contamination on belts. Advised will need a under bonnet wash to clear any 
standing fuel. Ran ok
Engine oil and coolant levels had been checked  OK
In July 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
My starting point is that MBL supplied Mr W with a second-hand car that had travelled 
57,581 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced 
at £8,999 which isnt insignificant. So, I think a reasonable person would expect it could be 
used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear that the car had some faults. This is apparent from 
Mr Ws description of events, the diagnostics supplied by B, the invoice provided by the 
dealer outlining works carried out and the phone call with the dealer who confirmed the car 
had an oil leak repaired in 2019. Having considered the car had some faults, Ive had to 
consider whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
oil leaks
Mr W first reported issues with an oil leak about five days after the car was supplied to him. 
He explained that over the following eight months the car had to go in to the dealer for 
repairs around five times, all of which Mr W says included repairs for an oil leak. this is 
detailed in the timeline of events provided by Mr W, in July 2020. However, during a 
conversation with our investigator the same month, Mr W said that his car was repaired on at 
least three occasions. The same month the dealer explained to our investigator that Mr Ws 
car was only attended to, on two occasions by them in relation to an oil leak, and both of 
those occasions were in 2019.
MBL confirmed to us in March 2021 that they were unable to obtain any job cards from the 
dealer in relation to any repairs on Mr Ws car. In MBL system notes, ranging from July 2019 
to July 2020, there are two entries in August 2019 and again in October 2019, relating to an 
oil leak. Both entries are phone calls between MBL and Mr W. The notes for one of the calls 
advise that Mr W said the car has been into the garage nine times previously.
I think its fair to say theres been conflicting information from both parties in relation to the 
number of oil leaks Mr W has experienced, and theres limited evidence to demonstrate what 
the actual position is.
From the information provided its not in dispute that Mr Ws car experienced an oil leak in 
2019 which had been repaired by the dealer, this is supported by both parties. Mr W 
confirms this in the timeline of events he provided the investigator, and the dealer confirms 
this during a phone call with our investigator. However, beyond this I have no evidence, 
besides what Mr W has said, to confirm that the oil leak had recurred. This position is further 
supported by both reports provided by B which do not mention an oil leak, despite Mr W 
saying this was part of the reason why B had been called out. In Bs report from May 2021 B 
commented that the engine oil had been checked and were okay. So, in the circumstances, 
and from the information provided Im satisfied that repairs for an oil leak carried out by the 
dealer have been successful.
I recognise that W has said as a result of the problems hes experienced, hes lost faith in 
the car and has asked to reject it. However, as the oil leak, and other issues, which Ill 
address later, have been successfully repaired, which Mr W accepted, I dont think its fair to 
ask MBL to allow a rejection of the car. So, I wont be instructing them to do so.the repair to the alloys
Mr W also complained about the condition of the alloys, the water pump and the timing belt 
not being replaced when he was told they would be, prior to him collecting the car.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that in certain situations finance 
providers are liable for what is said by a supplier before the consumer takes out a credit 
agreement. So, if the dealer incorrectly told Mr W certain components in the car had been 
replaced, its taken as if MBL told Mr W the same.
I cant say for sure what was originally agreed prior to supply. In an email to our investigator, 
Mr W confirmed that the alloys had been re-painted when they brought the car back to the 
dealer, after realising the paintwork was flaking. However, Mr W remains unhappy with the 
dealers method of repair because he believes the alloys should have been powder coated, 
as opposed to just re-sprayed.
Having looked into alloy refurbishment, Im aware that both methods of treating and repairing 
alloys are considered as acceptable and viable. I havent seen any evidence that suggests 
the dealer promised a specific method of refurbishment to the alloys. However, Mr W has 
confirmed they were repaired, he also said that the dealer re-sprayed them. Ive already 
established that this is an acceptable method in which alloys can be repaired; and Mr W 
hasnt complained about the failure of the repairs rather the method in which the dealer 
repaired them. So, I wont be asking MBL to do anything further in relation to the alloys.
the water pump and timing belt
Mr W provided our investigator with an invoice dated 7 August 2019, detailing that the timing 
belt and water pump had been replaced. So, although this had caused some dissatisfaction 
for Mr W, I can see that within about a week of realising the issues, theyd been rectified 
under the warranty as confirmed by Mr W. So, I wont be asking MBL to take any action in 
regard to this.
the EGR
On the invoice for the repair completed in March 2020 the EGR had been reported as being 
replaced. This was following Bs diagnostics detailing a fault with it earlier that month. EGRs 
are components that suffer from wear and tear and are likely to need replacing throughout 
the life of a car. In Mr Ws case, his car had over 64,000 miles when the EGR had been 
replaced. So, in the circumstances Im not persuaded that the failure of the EGR renders the 
car as being of unsatisfactory quality. That being said, even if I did reach the opposite 
conclusion, this has now been repaired. So, either way, MBL dont need to take any further 
action here.
steering wheel fault code
There was also the steering wheel warning code on the customer assistance report 
produced by B, in March 2020 which Mr W said the dealer hadnt looked into or fixed. Mr W 
also explained that at the time B said it was caused by a deactivated safety feature. B hasnt 
provided any further information on this fault code. For example, theres no mention of it on 
their customer assistance report, or a separate comment containing their opinion. So, I dont
have any evidence in relation to the cause of the fault code besides what Mr W has said to 
us. However, in Bs latest fault report, produced in May 2021, the steering wheel fault code 
isnt present, despite a full diagnostic being carried out.In the circumstances Im not persuaded that the issue with the steering wheel is still present 
in Mr Ws car, or what had caused it to display in March 2020. So, I wont be asking MBL to 
do anything in relation to this.
other issues with the car
The other issues detailed on Bs diagnostics report included the electric heating in the side 
mirror and a faulty neutral position sensor, although its difficult to provide a life expectancy 
on these components, these are parts which I dont think it unreasonable that theyd 
necessarily require attention or maintenance at this point; particularly in consideration of the 
age and mileage of the car. As explained above there would be an expectation for some 
wear and tear, and I think its reasonable that these parts would come under this. So, in the 
circumstances Im not persuaded that the maintenance of those parts necessarily points to 
the car being of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr W has raised concerns about the cleanliness of the car when it was supplied to him, the 
shortage of fuel and increased mileage after repairs were carried out. As my decision is 
focused on Mr Ws concerns about MBL, I havent considered these as part of my decision.
loss of earnings
Mr W explained that he had to take a number of days off work to bring the car back and forth 
from the dealer for repairs. As a result of this he says hes lost out on around £100- £150 per 
day of potential earnings. Mr W has said he believes he should be compensated for this.
Although Im able to consider loss of earnings, Mr W hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence to support this claim. So, I wont be asking MBL to reimburse Mr W for loss of 
income in relation to this complaint.
putting things right
Although Mr Ws car has been repaired, I acknowledge the inconvenience that would have 
been caused to Mr W with needing an oil leak repaired soon after supply, So, I think its fair 
the Mr W is compensated to some degree. In March 2021 Mr W confirmed to our 
investigator that hes not had to pay for any repairs in relation to any issues with the car, 
identified in his complaint, so Ive not considered any reimbursement costs. In the 
circumstances Im satisfied that £100 is a fair recognition of the inconvenience that has been 
caused to Mr W.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
MBL didnt respond to my provisional decision. However, Mr W made some further 
comments which Ill address below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his response Mr W made the following points:
1. The photos Mr W provided and the latest report from B prove the car had a leak
2. Bs first report proves theres an issue with the cars computer The above points are a summary of what I considered to be the main themes raised in Mr 
Ws response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the information 
provided in relation to this complaint, however Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be 
the main issues here.
the photos Mr W provided and the latest report from B prove the car had a leak
Mr W provided photos, some which were date stamped, which appeared to show oil patches 
on the ground and a low oil light on a cars dashboard. However, besides what Mr W has 
said, I havent seen any further evidence which links the images to Mr Ws car or confirms 
that theyre the result of an oil leak from Mr Ws car. 
As explained in my provisional decision the report from B, produced in May 2021, advised 
that the engine oil had been checked and was okay. So, I think this fairly demonstrates that 
the car didnt have an oil leak at that point. However, in addition to this Bs report advised:
Inspected fuel leak found loose union under bonnet lift pump
Re-secured union no visible contamination on belts
Advised will need a under bonnet wash to clear any standing fuel
Although the report says a fuel leak had been inspected, it suggests that specific issue had 
been resolved after securing the union. The report doesnt say that further investigation or 
significant works are required in relation to this. In addition, the cars mileage was recorded 
as 67,563 miles, which shows that Mr W had travelled around 10,000 miles since acquiring 
the car. I think its reasonable to expect that some of the issues noted on Bs report are likely 
to have been caused by a degree of wear and tear due to usage, rather than through an 
inherent issue with the car. So, from the information provided I dont think Bs report proves 
that this issue was present when it was supplied to Mr W.
Bs first report proves theres an issue with the cars computer 
Mr W said the steering wheel fault code (loss of communication with the steering wheel) 
noted on Bs first report proves a fault exists with the cars computer. I havent seen anything 
which suggests the steering wheel fault code is an indication of a fault with the cars 
computer. Ive not seen any evidence to explain the cause of the fault code or why it hadnt 
shown on Bs second report. So, from the information provided I cant see that this is an 
issue with the car, or proof that the initial repairs had failed.
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the same.    
My final decision
Having thought about everything along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I instruct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to:
Pay Mr W £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused as a result of the 
repairs carried out.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 Benjamin John
Ombudsman