DRN-4131497
The complaint
A sole trader, whom Ill refer to as Mrs B, is unhappy with the service she received from
HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding her application for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mrs B applied for a BBL with HSBC in September 2020. Mrs B chased the status of her
application on numerous occasions before she was eventually told she needed to provide
personal identity verification (IDV) documents to the bank. Mrs B sent her IDV documents
to HSBC but heard nothing in return. After several further months chasing HSBC, Mrs B was
told in January 2021 that her IDV documents hadnt been received. Mrs B wasnt happy with
the service she was receiving from HSBC surrounding her BBL application, so she raised a
complaint with them at that time.
In February 2021, HSBC wrote to Mrs B and explained that high demand for the BBL
scheme had impacted their ability to respond to her in a timely manner, but that they still
required Mrs B to provide her IDV documents if she wanted her application to proceed.
Mrs B sent her IDV documents to HSBC again but received no response. Mrs B then
telephoned HSBC in March 2021 to chase her application and was told that her IDV
documents had been rejected.
Mrs B was later told by HSBC that her application had been cancelled and that she would
need to reapply. Mrs B did reapply, but she was then told that the BBL scheme was now
closed to new applicants. Mrs B reiterated her complaint to HSBC, who confirmed that the
high demand for the scheme has led to significant delays and that because the BBL scheme
was no longer open for new applications she would be unable to reapply. HSBC apologised
to Mrs B for the standard of service shed received surrounding her application and offered
to pay her £100 as compensation. HSBC later increased this offer of compensation to £250.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that they were unable to compel
HSBC to provide a loan to Mrs B under similar terms as those offered by the BBL scheme,
but they did recommend that HSBC increase their offer of compensation to Mrs B to £500,
which they felt more fairly reflected the level of trouble and upset that Mrs B had
experienced.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied and didnt feel our investigators recommendations went far
enough. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 January 2023 as follows:
HSBC have confirmed that high demand for the BBL scheme led to significant delays
in processing and moving forwards BBL applications such as Mrs Bs.
I can appreciate the difficult position that HSBC, like all lenders, were in at the time of
the BBL scheme, given the unprecedented nature of the social circumstances that
led to the creation of the scheme. However, from a fairness perspective, I do feel that
Mrs B was deprived access to the BBL scheme because of the issues that HSBC
encountered.
One reason I say this is because BBL applicants were only able to apply to one
business for a BBL at any one time. In this instance, this means that because Mrs Bs
BBL application was with HSBC she was unable to apply to any other lender for a
BBL until her HSBC application was resolved.
While I feel that some leeway in regard to BBL application processing times should
be given to lenders such as HSBC, given the wider circumstances referred to
previously, I dont feel that this leeway should reasonably extend to where BBL
applications fail to be processed altogether. Ultimately, HSBC accepted Mrs Bs BBL
application, and so I think Mrs B was entitled to expect it to be processed.
Where an unfair event has occurred, such as the non-processing of a BBL
application, this service would generally seek to instruct the business to take the
corrective action necessary to restore the complainant to the position they should
fairly be in  or as close as reasonably possible  had the errors being complained
about never occurred.
In this instance, its not known whether Mrs Bs BBL application would have been
successful, because it was never processed. So, my provisional decision here is that
HSBC must now process Mrs Bs application under similar criteria to how it would
have been processed at the time it was initially made. And, if Mrs Bs application is
successful, HSBC must also provide a loan to Mrs B on the same terms as she
would have received via the BBL scheme, including the loan term, interest rate, and
that Mrs B wouldnt be required to make any payments towards the loan for the first
twelve months.
Im aware that HSBC will have concerns this provisional instruction, especially given
that the BBL scheme itself is now closed. But a BBL was ultimately a loan, albeit on
preferential terms, and given that I feel Mrs B was potentially denied access to those
preferential terms by HSBCs delays, I feel its fair that HSBC should now give Mrs B
the opportunity to potentially benefit from those preferential terms  should Mrs B
decide that she still wishes to take on this debt for her sole trader business.
Mrs Bs application would be dependent on it passing all the necessary customer
onboarding checks. But I dont feel that it would be fair for the application to be
subject to affordability or creditworthiness tests, given that BBL applications werent
themselves subject to these tests.
In their correspondence with this service, HSBC have suggested that theyd
somehow be unable to provide a loan on such terms to Mrs B. But its not clear why
this would be the case. Ultimately, the loan Ive described would be a business loan
with some manual adjustments, and I feel that it is within HSBCs gift to provide a
loan on such terms, given that HSBC can control such things as the interest rate
applied as well as decide to either write off or pay itself the payments that would fall
due on the loan in the first twelve months.
Finally, I note that in their correspondence with this service, HSBC have said that ifMrs B had brought her complaint to them sooner, during an exceptions window that
ran until 31 December 2021, they would have been able to consider her application
in line with the exception criteria and, if appropriate, provided Mrs B with a BBL.
But Mrs B did bring her complaint to HSBC before that window closed, and HSBCs
own complaint notes confirm that they were aware of Mrs Bs complaint in May 2021.
As such, I feel that HSBCs point here is moot.
To summarise, if Mrs B still wants a business loan on the same terms as a BBL, Im
provisionally instructing HSBC to process a loan application for Mrs B as it would
have been processed during the BBL scheme, and not subject to any criteria it
wouldnt have been subject to at that time.
Additionally, if this loan application is successful, HSBC must provide Mrs B with a
business loan on the same terms as she would have received with a BBL, including
the interest rate, loan term, and that no repayments would be required from her for
the first twelve months of the loan.
Following responses received from both Mrs B and HSBC, I issued an updated provisional 
decision on 23 February 2023. This updated provisional decision largely reiterated the 
position Id reached in my initial letter above, and included the following:
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC expressed concerns surrounding the 
fact that the BBL scheme had now ended and that it might not be possible for them to 
settle the complaint in the manner I proposed. HSBC therefore suggested allowing 
Mrs B to apply for their most relevant live loan product and reimbursing to Mrs B the 
difference in cost of that loan and the BBL.
As explained previously, the overriding remit of this service is to issue instructions to 
a business so that a customer who has incurred an unfair outcome is put back into 
the position they would have been in, had the actions or inactions of the business 
that resulted in the unfair outcome never taken place.
On the face of it, HSBCs suggestion above seems reasonable and appears to 
conform with the remit of this service as Ive described it. But HSBC also stipulated 
that any loan application Mrs B might make would be subject to the standard 
eligibility and affordability criteria pursuant to that loan.
But the BBL scheme didnt have the same application criteria as the loans that Mrs B 
might now be able to apply for. And so, I dont feel HSBCs proposal here does put 
Mrs B back into the position she should be in  because I feel that theres a higher 
chance of the suggested loan application being unsuccessful than should fairly be 
the case.
I put this point to HSBC, who explained that they felt that allowing Mrs B to apply for 
a loan using the more relaxed criteria for a scheme that no longer existed would 
contravene their own internal policies and potentially their regulatory obligations.
I can only reiterate once again that the overriding remit of this service is to put Mrs B 
back into the position she should have been in, had HSBC not acted unfairly towards 
her by not processing her BBL application as they did. As such, I remain satisfied 
that it is within my remit here to issue a final decision which includes the instructions 
to HSBC as described in my provisional decision above.However, its understood that Mrs B doesnt hold a business current account with 
HSBC. If this is the case, then Mrs B would need to apply for a loan feeder account 
with HSBC before the BBL could be applied for, and this loan feeder account would 
be subject to the standard onboarding and creditworthiness criteria  as it would 
have been had it been applied for during the time the BBL scheme was running.
Should it be the case that Mrs B is able to successfully apply for a BBL, it may be the 
case that, in order to comply with these instructions, HSBC may need to apply a 
variety of credits to an existing loan product, such as theyve previously suggested. 
Although I must note, given the remit of this service, that any credit file reporting 
HSBC might then make must be as such reporting would be made if Mrs B had a 
BBL  i.e. in regard to the credit Mrs B is considered to have borrowed and not 
inclusive of any corrective credits that HSBC might need to apply.
Finally, in my previous letter, I forgot to address the point of compensation, which I 
feel should be payable to Mrs B for the inconvenience this matter has caused. I 
apologise to both Mrs B and HSBC for this omission and confirm that I feel HSBC 
should pay Mrs B compensation totalling £500 for the inconvenience this ongoing 
matter has caused her business, including that Mrs B was unfairly denied access to 
the BBL scheme.
HSBC responded to this updated provisional decision and again expressed their concerns 
about being instructed to provide new lending to Mrs B on the same basis as a BBL. 
HSBC provided further information about these concerns, including that Mrs B had 
subsequently taken a personal loan for an amount comparable to that which shed applied 
for via the BBL scheme. HSBC noted that Mrs B used her personal account for business 
also so put forwards a proposal whereby they would make a one-off payment to Mrs equal to 
the difference between how much interest Mrs B would now pay on her personal loan above 
the amount that she would have been paid on the BBL, had her BBL application been 
successful.
I considered HSBCs proposal and found it to be reasonable. And I asked our investigator to 
communicate my position on this matter to both Mrs B and HSBC on 24 April 2023 as 
follows:
The ombudsman would like to update all parties to this complaint as to his present 
thinking. This is following an offer put forwards by HSBC to make a payment to Mrs B 
which would effectively reduce the amount of interest that Mrs B would pay on a 
more recent personal loan shes taken with HSBC to that which she would have paid 
had that more recent loan been taken out as a BBL.
The ombudsman feels that HSBCs offer presents a fair solution to whats happened 
here, and while he acknowledges that Mrs B would prefer HSBC to be instructed to 
issue her with a new loan on the same terms as a BBL, the ombudsman feels that 
there are several factors which make HSBCs offer a fairer and more reasonable 
solution.
These include that matters have clearly moved on from the time that Mrs B first 
applied for the BBL, including that Mrs B has taken the more recent loan from HSBC. 
And the ombudsman feels that it may not have been the case that Mrs B would have 
either required or been granted the more recent loan by HSBC if she already had the 
BBL that shed applied for and about which she now complains.
Additionally, it must be remembered that the purpose of the BBL was to help 
businesses negotiate the difficult times surrounding the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. But those times have now been negotiated by Mrs B, who also 
now has borrowing from HSBC of a similar amount to that which she wished to 
borrow for her business as a BBL. And while Mrs B may point out that a BBL is a 
business loan while her more recent loan is a personal loan, its clear that Mrs B uses 
her personal HSBC account for business purposes.
Finally, the ombudsman also feels that HSBCs offer essentially achieves the remit of 
this service to put a successful complainant  as much as is reasonably possible  
into the position they would have been in, had the unfair action being complained 
about not taken place. This is because he feels that the offer made by HSBC can be 
fairly considered as essentially converting Mrs Burns more recent loan into a BBL. 
And because, as per his more recent provisional decision letter, any instruction he 
might make in regard to HSBC providing a BBL to Mrs B would be dependent on her 
successfully applying to HSBC for a business loan feeder account  an application 
which would be subject to HSBCs standard checks and thus not guaranteed to be 
successful.
Mrs B responded to the above and expressed her dissatisfaction with my apparent change 
of position. But Id like to confirm that my overall position hasnt changed here, and it 
remains the case that I feel that HSBC acted unfairly. What has changed is what I feel is the 
fairest way to resolve the issue at this time. 
It's the remit of this service to put a complainant back into the position they should have 
been in, as much as reasonably possible, had the mistake or error made by the respondent 
business never occurred. Often this can be clearly and simply achieved, but I dont feel that 
this is the case in this instance. 
As alluded to above, one reason I say this is because matters have clearly moved on, 
including that Mrs B has taken a personal loan with HSBC comparable to the amount she 
applied for as a BBL. And so, by instructing HSBC to provide Mrs B with a new loan on the 
same terms as a BBL at this time, I wouldnt be returning Mrs B to the position she should 
have been in had her BBL application been successful  because Mrs B achieved a 
comparable lending position with HSBC when she took the personal loan. 
Instead, by instructing HSBC to make the payment to Mrs B which theyve proposed  a 
payment which I feel has the effect of essentially transforming the personal loan to being on 
similar terms as a BBL  I feel that this more accurately returns Mrs B to the position she 
would have been in had her BBL application with HSBC been successful. And should Mrs B 
require further borrowing beyond her present loan amount she can apply for it  in much the 
same way as she would have been able to apply for a personal loan had she been 
successful in obtaining a BBL.
As such, I remain of the opinion as expressed in my communication of 24 April 2023, for the 
reasons explained therein. And it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I 
uphold this complaint in Mrs Bs favour on that basis. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs B was wanting here, but I hope that shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment to Mrs B in compliance of the offer that theyve made so as to 
ensure that Mrs B pays no more in interest on her more recent loan than she would have 
paid, had her application for a BBL been successful.
HSBC must also make a further payment of £500 to Mrs B as compensation for the trouble 
and upset that shes incurred here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman