DRN-3560060
The complaint
Mr A on behalf of R a limited company complains that Revolut Ltd. Blocked and 
subsequently closed its account without warning or reasons. He is unhappy the funds in the 
account were returned to source and it caused delay in R receiving an HMRC payment. 
R is represented by its director Mr A.
What happened
R had an account with Revolut.
On 15 July 2020 Revolut blocked Rs account in order to review it. Following the review, it 
decided to close Rs account with immediate effect on 29 July 2020.
Revolut returned the remaining balance to source on 3 August 2020.
Revolut have accepted that they made an error when they closed the account. As a result, 
Rs HMRC refund payment of £1,428.57 was received into the account on 
9 September 2020. This meant R was faced with a considerable delay in receiving its rebate.  
Revolut agreed this payment should be returned to R but it didnt return the payment until 
6 December 2020.
Mr A complained to Revolut. They said they had acted fairly when closing the account. 
Revolut agreed it had made an error which meant the HMRC rebate had gone into a holding 
account instead of being returned to source.
Later they offered £100 compensation for the delay in returning the HMRC payment to R. 
When Mr A complained to our service, one of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought Revolut were entitled to block and close the account. But he agreed that Revolut 
had made a mistake when closing the account. That mistake meant R had to wait for their 
HMRC refund. He thought £100 offered by Revolut was fair for that delay.
Mr A was unhappy with the view. He said that the block and closure had a big impact on the 
business and on him and his family. Our investigator said we couldnt consider the impact on 
Mr A personally as the complaint had been brought by the company.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Rs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Rs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. Banks 
should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that means 60 
days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Rs accounts. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of Rs account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that Revolut can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut closed Rs 
account without notice. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Reasons
Mr A wanted to know the reasons for the closure. Whilst he may have expected to be given 
the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt required to give him a specific reason for closing 
Rs account. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this 
information  as much as hed like to know.
Funds returned to source
The investigator said he didnt see a reason why Revolut chose to return the funds to 
source. He also said he was aware R had received the funds that had been returned so 
hadnt suffered a financial loss. I have looked at the evidence provided I am of the view that 
Revolut should have considered why they thought they needed to return funds to source. 
They didnt do this, but as I am satisfied that R got access to the returned funds, I wont ask 
Revolut to do anything else in respect of this aspect of the complaint. 
HMRC payment delay 
Revolut have accepted they made a mistake which resulted in a three-month delay in R 
receiving its rebate from HMRC.  I can appreciate this was inconvenient to Mr A and resulted 
in extra work for him. I havent seen any evidence of impact the loss of around £1,400 for 
three months specifically had on R. As the investigator explained, with a complaint brought 
by a company, we cannot take into account any inconvenience that was suffered by 
individuals. Although I am sympathetic that this must have been difficult for Mr A and his 
family, I cant award compensation for his inconvenience in this situation.I recognise R was without the money for three months and I have seen Mr A had to chase 
Revolut to find a way to claim the money back so I consider that £100 is reasonable 
compensation for that element of the complaint. 
Impact on Mr A and R
Mr A has said that the account block and closure and in particular not having any information 
made the situation very difficult. He has said it was the lack of communication, the long 
periods of time and the complete helplessness that caused him emotional damage during 
this situation. 
I appreciate and thank Mr A for what he has shared with us, and I dont doubt this was a 
difficult time for him and for the company. I have said above that because Mr A isnt the 
person bringing the complaint, R is, Mr A cant receive compensation for the impact this had 
on him personally. In addition, I have looked at the evidence and as Ive said Im satisfied 
that Revolut acted fairly when they reviewed and closed the account. So, although I 
appreciate the inconvenience it all caused, Revolut havent done anything wrong here so it 
follows I cant award R any compensation.
In summary, I recognise Mr S feels unhappy about the block and I realise Mr A on behalf of 
R will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant 
say Revolut has acted unreasonably and treated R unfairly when it blocked and closed the 
account. 
I accept Revolut have admitted to making mistakes with the way they dealt with the HMRC 
rebate which caused delays in R receiving the rebate. I think that £100 is reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances for the reasons Ive explained above.
Putting things right
Revolut should pay R £100 compensation because of mistakes they made in dealing with 
the HMRC rebate.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I partially uphold the complaint. I require Revolut Ltd to 
pay R £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman