DRN-3162956
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way AWP P&C SA has settled a curtailment claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr D took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy 
was underwritten by AWP. Mr D intended to take a three-month trip to a country Ill call A, 
travelling between 9 March 2020 and 6 June 2020. He was due to fly into one city, hire a car 
to travel in A and return back to the UK from another city. He departed as planned on 9 
March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 14 March 2020, As government announced that it would be imposing 
travel restrictions. As Mr D couldnt continue on his trip as hed planned, he arranged to fly 
back to the UK from the city hed originally landed in. So he purchased a new return flight 
and returned to the UK in mid-March 2020.
Mr D made a claim on his travel insurance policy. Hed received a credit voucher for his 
original return flight for the full value of his ticket (£368.90) from the airline. So he claimed for 
his original outbound flight to A from the UK and the cost of the new return flight hed 
purchased, at a cost of £717.60.
AWP partly accepted Mr Ds curtailment claim. However, it didnt agree to settle the cost of 
Mr Ds original, outbound flight, as hed been able to use it. AWP agreed to cover the cost of 
Mr Ds new return flight, as the policy covered additional travel costs. However, it deducted 
the cost of the credit voucher Mr D had received from the settlement, together with the 
applicable policy excess.
Mr D was unhappy with the settlement hed been paid and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that AWP could deduct any refunds a policyholder had received for their 
unused tickets from a settlement. She also concluded that had AWP refunded Mr D for the 
full cost of his new return flight without deduction, hed have flown home free of charge. So 
she considered AWP had settled the claim fairly.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he felt that he should be reimbursed in full for both flights. He 
felt that he was being penalised for having received a credit voucher.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think AWP settled his claim fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ds policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AWP treated 
him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ds 
contract with AWP. Theres no dispute that AWP concluded Mr D had a valid claim which 
was covered by the curtailment section of the policy. So Ive looked at how the contract says 
AWP will settle claims. The policy states:
You are covered up to the limit as shown on the Summary of Cover for the value of the 
portion of your travel, accommodation expenses and tuition/course fees, calculated from the 
date of your early return home in the United Kingdom or The Channel Islands or the date of 
your hospitalisation as an inpatient, which have not been used and which were paid before 
your departure from your home in the United Kingdom or The Channel Islands. You are also 
covered for reasonable additional travelling expenses (Economy Class, or up to the standard 
to that of your pre-booked travel where Bespoke cover is selected) incurred by you for 
returning to your home earlier than planned due to a cause listed below. (Emphasis added).
The curtailment section also includes a list of Conditions. One of these says:
You must use or revalidate your original ticket for your early return. If this is not possible you 
must provide evidence that additional costs were necessary. Any refunds due on unused 
original tickets will be deducted from your claim.
Ive next turned to consider how the policy terms apply to Mr Ds claim.
The outbound flight
Its common ground that Mr D was able to use his pre-booked and pre-paid flight to A as 
hed planned on 9 March 2020. Therefore, I cant fairly find that this was an unused cost 
which is covered by the curtailment section of the policy. I can understand why Mr D 
considers that he didnt have the trip hed planned to, given that it was curtailed only a few 
days later. But I think he did have the benefit of the outbound flight and a few days in A 
before restrictions were imposed. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AWP to conclude 
that Mr Ds outbound flight wasnt covered.
The settlement of Mr Ds return flight
Mr D had booked to return home on 6 June 2020 from a city in A. Hed pre-paid £368.90 for 
this flight. And had the trip gone to plan, Mr D wouldve made use of this flight to return to the 
UK. So hed always have had to pay £368.90 for a return flight. 
In this case, Mr Ds original return flight was cancelled. So the airline refunded the ticket cost 
of £368.90 in the form of a credit voucher. Mr D had to buy a new flight to return to the UK at 
a cost of £717.60. As Ive set out above, the policy does cover a policyholders additional 
travel costs. But the condition Ive referred to makes clear that AWP is entitled to deduct any 
refund a policyholder is due for their unused ticket from the value of a claim. 
As such then, I think AWP was reasonably entitled to deduct the credit voucher refund Mr D 
received from the airline for his original return flight from the settlement it paid him. As Ive 
explained, Mr D would always have had to pay to return to the UK and he originally paid £368.90 to do so. So his additional cost to return home was the amount he paid for his new 
flight which was over and above £368.90. This is the amount AWP has settled for Mr Ds 
new flight, less the applicable policy excess. 
Taking into account the refund voucher Mr D received, had AWP refunded the full cost he 
paid for his new return flight, hed have effectively flown home for free. The purpose of 
insurance is to put policyholders in the position they would have been in if the loss hadnt 
happened. It isnt to put policyholders in a better position than theyd otherwise have been. 
So by deducting the cost of a return flight Mr D would always have had to pay for (and which 
had already been refunded to him through the credit voucher) I think AWP has fairly 
reimbursed him for the additional travel costs he incurred.
Overall then, I find that AWP has settled Mr Ds claim fairly. So Im not telling it to pay him 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman