DRN-1758006
The complaint
Mr J complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle 
and end the agreement.
What happened
Mr J tells us that he acquired the vehicle on or around 13 March 2019 from a dealer Ill refer 
to as C. He says that within two weeks the battery failed. And he had to take legal action 
against C to recover the cost of a replacement. Since then he states that the vehicle has 
experienced other faults which culminated in it failing a MOT test in November 2019. Mr J 
states that amongst other reasons this was due to a failed emissions test. Recently, Mr J has 
advised that as he sought to reject the vehicle, he arranged with SMF for it to collect the 
vehicle towards the end of 2019.
SMF told us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a company 
Ill refer to as S. It said that S had found the vehicle would have been of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. It said that in November 2019  when it claimed Mr J was in breach of 
the agreement by being in arrears and not having the vehicle insured  it had arranged with 
him for the vehicle to be collected. It said the vehicle had since been sold at auction.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that S had 
found the issues with the vehicle to be wear and tear issues. And that it wasnt clear the 
vehicle wouldve failed the MOT test on emissions as that test had been aborted.
Mr J didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr J experienced problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately, with used vehicles 
theres always the increased risk of things going wrong. Here the vehicle when supplied had 
an odometer reading of 53,602 miles and was around eight year old.
Mr Js hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. SMF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Mr Js complaint is that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. And in 
particular he refers to issues with emissions and faults with the turbo unit and other 
components.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen three reports from a recovery service Ill refer to as R. The first dated 22 March 
2019 gives details of a battery failure. A report dated 19 June 2019 refers to an intermittent 
fault with the oxy sensor  which it says was still under warranty. A report dated 21 
September 2019 refers to possible sticking turbo vanes. And it shows other fault codes. The 
latter report recorded an odometer reading of 58,231 miles.
Following the latest report from R the vehicle underwent a MOT test on 25 September 2019. 
Which it failed due to a faulty tyre and missing wheel fixing. The odometer reading was 
58,299 miles.
A handwritten addition has been made to the copy of the MOT failure certificate with which 
Ive been supplied. Presumably to suggest the vehicle also failed to due to an emissions 
issue. This is clearly an irregularity. Im unable to determine who made the written insertions. 
The emissions test information Ive seen shows the test was aborted. And its not recorded in 
the printed reasons for the vehicle failing the MOT.
The vehicle was inspected by S on 11 November 2019. The odometer reading at this time is 
recorded as 58,580. Its also reported the vehicle is subject to a SORN declaration and a 
road test wasnt possible.S reported a fault code with the turbo but said this might be due to the vehicle being unused 
for a period of time. It also suggested that although the vehicle hadnt failed the MOT due to 
an emissions issue it was probable that it only required a fuel system clean. It said the 
issues on which the vehicle failed the MOT were wear and tear matters. And it considered 
that the vehicle had been of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr J acquired a used vehicle with over 53,000 miles previously covered. Its to be expected 
that a vehicle which was eight years old with this mileage would be showing signs of wear 
and tear. 
The battery failure in March relates to a serviceable item and in any event, it seems this 
matter was settled after Mr J took legal action against C. Ive not seen any documentary 
information to show that the faults identified in June were repaired. I understand Mr J told 
our investigator that a part had been replaced and Im happy to accept this. I infer he was 
prepared to accept this repair. And the fact that the vehicle was able to be driven well over 
2,000 miles between then and the MOT failure in September suggests that any repairs were 
successfully completed.
The vehicle failed the MOT in September 2019 due to issues with tyres and a missing wheel 
fixing. Both are serviceable items. The emission test was aborted. And theres no information 
to show that it was repeated at that time or what the outcome wouldve been. I dont think the 
handwritten addition to the failure certificate changes that situation.
Ive also taken account of information supplied by the vehicles previous owner, but this 
doesnt change my view. I have to determine what happened with the vehicle from the time it 
was supplied to Mr J. The previous owner seems to have returned the vehicle about five 
months before it was supplied to Mr J. Theres no information to show what knowledge they 
would have about what had happened to the vehicle in terms of either subsequent use or 
repairs.
Ive recently been made aware that the vehicle has been recovered from Mr J  by 
arrangement with him  and that it was later sold at auction. This doesnt directly alter my 
final decision. But Mr J has mentioned that hes been advised that the effect of SMF selling 
the vehicle meant that it had accepted his rejection of the vehicle.
Its a matter for Mr J to take advice from such sources as he feels appropriate. But if that 
was the advice that he was given  and based on the information I have - its not something 
with which I would agree. The regulated finance agreement through which the vehicle was 
acquired by Mr J was a hire purchase agreement. This means that SMF continued to own 
the vehicle until such time as Mr J had repaid the full amount of the agreement.
If Mr J had paid one third or more of the total cost of the agreement (that is at least 
£4,541.48) the vehicle could not lawfully be repossessed against his wishes without a court 
order. If he hadnt paid at least one-third, SMF wouldnt need a court order to repossess the 
vehicle. Here it seems no court order was required.
When the vehicle was repossessed by SMF it was entitled to dispose of its own property in 
any way it sought. And Id have expected it to sell the vehicle in order to mitigate its loss. 
Had the vehicle simply been left whilst this complaint was determined its highly likely its 
value would have decreased. And that could potentially adversely impact upon any 
remaining liability which Mr J accrued under the agreement.In summary, although the vehicle had faults the information shows these to be matters of 
wear and tear consistent with the previous use of the vehicle. In my opinion, there is 
insufficient information for me to conclude that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman