DRN-4184156
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a guarantor loan George Banco Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr M with a guarantor loan for £4,500.00 in August 2017. This loan 
had an APR of 57.54% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £11,620.20, including interest, fees and charges of £7,120.20, was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £200. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and she thought George Banco 
shouldnt have provided Mr M with his loan. So she thought that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. 
George Banco disagreed with our investigators assessment so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr M was already 
significantly indebted and that he was already paying a significant proportion of his income 
towards credit commitments. 
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Mr M was supposedly going to consolidate debts that had a much lower rate of 
interest. So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was 
going to improve Mr Ms already precarious financial position going forward and how George 
Banco could accept what Mr M said at face value in these circumstances.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ms difficulties reflected his choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from George 
Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ms existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As 
George Banco provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made, whether to George Banco or anyone else, should be deducted from 
the new starting balance  the £4,500.00 originally lent. If the amount Mr M himself 
(and not his guarantor) has already repaid exceeds £4,500.00 then George Banco 
should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Mr M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information George Banco recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind George Banco of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration 
should, as seems likely, an outstanding balance remain after all adjustments have been 
made, it decides to collect on this and its the case that Mr M is experiencing financial 
difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. George Banco Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman