DRN-3547258
The complaint
Miss H complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss H took out a loan with FOL as follows: 
start date loan statusrepayment 
termsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
June 2019 Not paid 4 monthly 
instalments£200 £96.40
In brief summary, Miss H mainly complained that:
this loan was irresponsible as it was unaffordable
she paid the first loan instalment due and explained in August 2019 that she couldnt 
make any further repayments  this led to the loan being defaulted in November 
2019 
Miss H said she heard nothing further until two years later when her account was 
passed to a debt collection agency
shes unhappy that FOL didnt reply to two emails she sent and also that interest 
hasnt been fairly applied to her loan.
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. She thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Miss Hs circumstances at the time 
and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Miss H for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Miss H provided, or the information FOL 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that FOL shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Miss H had declared
as this was Miss Hs first loan with FOL, she didnt have any loan history with the 
lender that couldve suggested she mightve been experiencing underlying financial 
difficulty. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. Miss H said that she would send us bank statements and a credit file that the 
adjudicator had said she didnt need to see. 
When we didnt appear to have received anything further from Miss H, the complaint came to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Miss H told us that she sent the documents in the normal post as she couldnt afford 
recorded delivery. But I agree with our adjudicator that we dont need to see these 
documents in order to make a fair decision. So, bearing in mind that I have an obligation to 
both parties not to delay unreasonably in making a final decision, and mindful that this may 
save Miss H incurring any further wasted costs, I think its fair and reasonable for me to 
proceed with my review of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss H that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this. 
FOL provided Miss H with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
Theres no set list of proportionate checks. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Hs 
income and expenditure. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
In other words, for a relatively small first loan, relying on information from the borrower and 
doing less thorough checks  for instance, not verifying that information or finding out more - 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Miss Hs complaint. 
FOL asked Miss H about her outgoings, including what she was spending on any existing 
credit commitments. Using this information, FOL was able to see what her monthly budget 
typically looked like. 
 
FOL told us that Miss H had said she was a homeowner with a declared monthly income of 
£750 and her regular monthly outgoings amounted to £480. It seems Miss H told FOL that 
she didnt have any other debt commitments and the loan was required to pay for a holiday. 
FOL calculated that her monthly surplus was around £270. So it was satisfied that the loan 
repayments for this loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for Miss H.As this was the first loan Miss H had taken out with FOL, Miss H didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted FOL to any underlying money problems. It wasnt an 
unusually large loan relatively speaking given what Miss H had told FOL about her financial 
situation. The loan purpose seemed plausible. And Miss H was planning to pay the loan 
back over the next 4 months  which, broadly speaking, in Miss Hs circumstances was a 
reasonably foreseeable period of time when there was no reason to think her financial 
situation would be likely to change significantly. 
I agree, looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the 
information FOL had on record for Miss H, including what Miss H told FOL, this didnt point 
to the loan being unaffordable for Miss H. 
Im very sorry that Miss H had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this 
loan turned out to be difficult for her. I accept that in reality Miss Hs actual circumstances 
mightnt have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information FOL obtained. But thats not enough for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
We would expect FOL to decide Miss Hs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. And although Miss H feels strongly that FOL 
provided the loan irresponsibly, I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances 
wouldve required FOL to probe any more deeply into Miss Hs finances or ask Miss H to 
prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify what she had told 
them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect FOL to have asked to see a credit report or 
bank statements  and this is why the information in the credit report and bank statements 
that Miss H has put in the post makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint. So that 
is why I dont need to see it. To sum up, this wasnt information I think FOL needed to ask 
about, so if it wasnt information that Miss H chose to tell FOL about, then FOL couldnt have 
known about it - and I cant fairly say that FOL shouldve known about it. This means I dont 
think that FOL acted irresponsibly when it provided this loan to Miss H. 
Ive thought carefully about whether FOL has acted in any other way that isnt fair and 
reasonable  but I havent seen enough to make me think that it has. In particular, Ive 
thought about what Miss H has said about the high cost of the loan. I think there was a large 
amount of interest payable and I can appreciate that Miss H might now feel this was unfair. 
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable as well as the 
total amount she would pay over the loan term. Miss H had to actively engage in the loan 
application process. So I think our adjudicator was right to say that the interest she has 
incurred seems fair  its within the price cap rules and reflects the loan agreement Miss H 
signed up to.  
I can appreciate why Miss H was frustrated by what she felt was rudeness on the part of 
FOL when she didnt get a response to emails. But the email address Miss H used wasnt 
the correct one for actively communicating with FOL and I think that was reasonably clear 
from the email address itself which started no-reply@.... So I cant say that FOL didnt 
respond when it should have done because her email went into a mailbox that wasnt 
monitored and shouldnt have been used for this purpose. FOL had already sent Miss H 
information she needed to know about her failed payment and how to put things right on her 
account or get more help. So I cant fairly uphold this part of her complaint.
I can completely understand why it was an unwelcome surprise to be contacted by a debt 
collection agency some two years or so after the account had been defaulted. But there was 
no obligation on the part of FOL or the debt collection agency to take further steps following default so I cant fairly say it acted unreasonably by not contacting her sooner. And, as far as 
I can see, this hasnt caused Miss H any financial detriment. 
So overall, I havent seen anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to award any redress. 
I take this opportunity to remind FOL that if Miss H needs further time to pay what she owes 
then it should treat her positively and sympathetically in any discussions. If Miss H would like 
to talk about how she can get help with managing her finances we can provide contact 
details if she gives us a call  or theres more information about ways to access free debt 
advice on our website. 
I am sorry that Miss H is going through a difficult time. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment to her. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss H has sent me a credit report and extracts from her bank statements from around the 
time of the loan. And shes told me that other credit cards and loans were found to have 
been irresponsible and unaffordable. 
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED has confirmed safe receipt of my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint.  
I appreciate that Miss H feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. 
But Miss H hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. I accept that she feels her credit report and the bank statements she has provided hold 
information relevant to her complaint. But, for the reasons I have set out more fully in my 
provisional decision, this isnt information that I can fairly say that FUND OURSELVES 
LIMITED needed to ask for or look at before agreeing to lend this particular loan. Thats 
because it had enough information to make a fair lending decision based on the information 
it gathered at the time - it wasnt required to ask for more. And its decision to lend this loan to 
Miss H was fair based on the information it had in front of it. 
So I cant reasonably conclude that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED did anything wrong when 
it provided this loan to Miss H. Ive also taken into account what Miss H said about the way other complaints have been 
dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to 
be identical in every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. Ive looked 
at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases 
doesnt change my conclusion here.  
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman