DRN-4228154
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs K opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in July 2019. Her account limit was 
initially low - £100. Over the course of the next few years Mrs Ks account limit was 
increased several times until in July 2022 it was £1,200.
Mrs K says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Studio Retail should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her. 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs K  and when it 
increased her credit limit. It says there wasnt anything to suggest Mrs K couldnt afford the 
credit.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ks complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mrs K was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased 
to £575 in June 2021, Studio Retail didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. 
Our investigator said that Studio Retail should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs K. 
Studio Retail didnt agree. Mrs K didnt respond to our investigators view. As neither party 
agreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ks complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ks income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mrs K opened her account in July 2019, Studio Retail has told us there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. In fact, there wasnt much information at 
all. It seems that Studio Retail understood Mrs Ks income to be £9,600 and that she had a 
disposable income each month of £483. Its not clear to me where this information came 
from, and Studio Retail didnt verify the information. It seems that the only information Studio 
Retail had about Mrs K was that her husband worked full time and that she had an up to 
date mobile phone contract.
While this wasnt ideal, the credit offered was only £100 which would have meant 
repayments of around £5 or £6 a month. Given the low level of the credit provided I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Studio Retail to lend to Mrs K in these circumstances.
 
In November 2019, Studio Retail increased Mrs Ks credit limit to £350. Again, it had very 
little information about her circumstances, although it did know that she wasnt borrowing 
elsewhere, and she was only utilising about 55% of her credit. While Mrs K had missed her 
first payment on the account she had made this up and had paid more than the minimum 
repayments required. 
In June 2020 Studio Retail increased Mrs Ks limit by a further £100 to £450. Studio Retails 
checks identified an income of around £21,000 and she had maintained payments 
reasonably well. She had made an order which took her account over the limit on one 
occasion seven months earlier but had then made a large payment to bring her account 
significantly under her limit. So, taking into account the relatively low credit limits, the 
management of Mrs Ks account and the absence of any concerning external data in relation 
to both the November 2019 and June 2020 increases, Studio Retail acted fairly.
In June 2021 Studio Retail increased Mrs Ks credit limit by a further £125 to £575. By this 
point Studio Retail still didnt have a great deal of information about Mrs Ks circumstances. 
And in the intervening 12 months since the last credit limit increase Mrs K had managed her 
account less well. She had missed payments, seemingly in a dispute with Studio Retail 
about whether goods she had bought had been returned, although the disputed amount did 
not account for Mrs Ks entire outstanding credit. Two charges for non-payment were 
reversed by Studio Retail. In six of the nine months preceding the increase Studio Retail 
noted that Mrs K was in financial difficulties or at risk of financial difficulties. She was 
regularly failing to keep within her account limit (although I accept some of this was caused 
by the dispute) and she was never using less than 97% of her available credit.
I think at this point Studio Retail needed to do more to understand Mrs Ks financial 
circumstances before increasing her limit.
 
I dont know how Studio Retail might have chosen to do this; there is no prescriptive list of 
checks that need to be done. But in the absence of any other evidence, I think its 
reasonable to rely on information supplied by Mrs K. 
Mrs Ks bank statements show that she didnt have an income of her own. In the three 
months leading up to the credit limit increase her balance was never higher than £22 and 
there were no significant deposits. Her credit report confirms that this was her only bank 
account.
While the bank statements show that following the credit limit increase she began to receive 
deposits from her husbands account of around £1,000 a month and there was evidence of 
some ad hoc payments, Mrs K was then paying household bills which meant that her bank 
account balance remained very low. Mrs K explains that she had four dependent children. 
Her retired parents lived with her family and were only entitled to minimum pension credit. 
Her husbands income in April 2022 was only £2,450 a month. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Mrs Ks financial circumstances improved later in the lending relationship.
 On this basis, I am satisfied that if Studio Retail had completed proportionate checks it would 
have realised that Mrs K wouldnt be able to sustainably repay any further credit. I think Mrs 
K lost out as a result of the credit limit increases in June 2021 and beyond. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio Retail to refund any interest and charges incurred 
by Mrs K as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from 8 June 2021 onwards, therefore Studio Retail should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 8 June 2021 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, Studio Retail can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £450  this being the 
credit limit before 8 June 2021.
Studio Retail should work out how much Mrs K would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs K made since 8 June 2021 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs K 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Studio Retail should look to arrange an 
affordable and sustainable payment plan with Mrs K for the outstanding amount.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs K no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
From 8 June 2021. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs K a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mrs K on8 June 
2021. To put this right I direct Studio Retail Limited to pay compensation as explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman