DRN-2292700
The complaint
Mrs J complains London General Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused a claim 
against her motor warranty.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs J took out a London General Maintenance and Breakdown policy. In May 
2019 it expired. London General sold her Platinum Parts and Labour Warranty. In June 2019 
her car had developed a problem. She made a claim against her policy. But London General 
refused to pay for the repairs. It said the fault had developed over time so wasnt covered by 
the policy. Mrs J was unhappy with that. London General arranged for an engineer to inspect 
the car.
The engineer said the issue was a common fault with Mrs Js model of car. London General 
still didnt agree to cover the repairs. It responded to a complaint. It said the policy only 
covered repairs resulting from sudden mechanical failure. It didnt feel there had been one  
instead it felt the part had weakened over time. So it still refused to pay the claim.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. He felt London General had fairly refused the 
claim. It then became apparent the claim may have been successful if made against the 
policy Mrs J took out in May 2018. Mrs J complained the later policy had been mis-sold. Our 
investigator didnt agree it had. She didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me.
I previously explained to Mrs J and London General that I felt the claim had to be considered 
against the policy in place at the time of the breakdown  the May 2019 Platinum Parts and 
Labour Warranty. Having done so I felt the decision to refuse the claim was fair. I also said I 
felt that policy was mis-sold. I said I intended to require London General to refund Mrs J 
what she paid for it (plus simple interest) and pay her £150 compensation.  London General 
accepted that but Mrs J didnt. She wants London General to cover the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained the reasoning for my position on this complaint to both Mrs J and 
London General. So I wont repeat it all here. I will just address Mrs Js response to my 
proposal that London General refunds what she paid for the cover  rather than cover the 
cost of the repairs.
Mrs J says if London General hadnt provided her a different policy in May 2019 her claim 
would have been covered. That may well be correct. But my role is to try to put Mrs J back in 
the position she would have been if London General hadnt made a mistake. And if it hadnt 
it seems unlikely to me that her claim would have been covered by London General or a 
different provider.
If London General hadnt provided misleading information, about the policy it offered in May 
2019, Mrs J probably would have refused it. But if that had happened London General has 
said it wouldnt have offered her the Maintenance and Breakdown cover as an alternative. 
Ive no reason to doubt what it says about this. So she wouldnt have had a London General 
policy.
 
I still havent seen enough to make me think Mrs J would have found an alternative policy 
elsewhere  one that would have covered her claim. So I think its most likely she wouldnt 
have taken out any cover. That means that wouldnt have been a policy in place in 
June 2019 when the breakdown happened. 
So putting Mrs J back in the position she would have been in, without London Generals 
mistake, means refunding her what she paid for the cover in May 2019. It also means 
London General adding simple interest at 8% from the date she paid for the policy (or each 
instalment if she paid in that way) to the date of settlement  as shes unfairly been without 
the use of those funds.
Mrs J says London General has been dishonest. She feels it doctored a renewal letter it 
provided as part of this complaint process. It would be unusual for London General to do 
something like that. So Id need to see strong supporting evidence to be persuaded it had. 
But I havent seen anything makes me think it deliberately provided inaccurate information in 
response to this complaint.   
I can see London Generals mistake has caused Mrs J some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Shes had to put a fair bit of time and effort into this issue. To recognise that 
London General will need to pay her £150 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, London General Insurance Company Limited will need to: 
refund Mrs J what she paid for the May 2019 policy. It will need to add simple interest 
at 8% from the date of payment (or of each instalment if paid in that way) to the date 
of settlement and,
pay her £150 compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman