DRN-2614531
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined 
their home insurance claim for damage to their mains water pipe and for tracing and 
accessing the leak.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B and Miss B contacted RSA about a possible claim under their 
home insurance policy. They had been contacted by their local water authority to inform 
them that their water bills were unusually high and that it would need to come and assess 
what might be the cause. During the phone call, RSA confirmed there was trace and access 
cover under the policy. It asked Mr B and Miss B to send in a cause of damage report. 
Upon receipt of the report about the cause of damage (a pin hole leak in the mains water 
supply pipe), RSA told Mr B and Miss B that because there was no water damage to their 
home, that it couldnt cover the trace and access costs theyd incurred and that the damage 
to the mains pipe was the result of wear and tear which was excluded from cover under the 
policy. 
Mr B and Miss B complained to RSA. They said they had had to pay out £3,414 for trace and 
access of the leak so they were unhappy that theyd been told their claim would be covered 
only to have this assurance retracted once RSA received their cause of damage report and 
the accompanying invoice. 
RSA looked into Mr B and Miss Bs complaint and said their claim had been correctly 
declined under the policy terms. But having listened to the first call Mr B had made to it 
about the loss, RSA admitted that its handler had confirmed to him that it would cover their 
trace and access costs rather than appointing its own drainage experts to assess and 
manage the claim. RSA accepted that thered been a failure in the service itd provided Mr B 
and Miss B and awarded them compensation of £100. It also awarded them a further £25 for 
its failure to respond to their complaint within the required 8-week time-limit. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to RSA, Mr B and Miss B complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
He thought RSA hadnt unreasonably declined cover for their trace and access of the mains 
supply pipe and he agreed that RSA had provided them with misinformation during the first 
phone call. But he said that these were costs they would always have incurred so they were 
no worse off financially than if theyd been given the correct information from the outset. Our 
investigator thought that RSA had fairly compensated Mr B and Miss B for the loss of 
expectation, disappointment and upset itd caused them. 
Mr B and Miss B disagreed with the findings of our investigator. They said they declined 
RSAs offer of compensation and whilst they accepted the trace and access works werent 
now covered by the policy, they were given the impression by RSA that they were and 
consequently they commissioned the work to be carried out. So, they said, they were 
financially worse off because of RSAs mistake. 
Our investigator thought about what Mr B and Miss B had said but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. He said that whilst they had been under the impression that they would be 
covered for the trace and access costs, it didnt change the fact that they would always have 
needed to commission this work out of their own pocket. So, he said, they had not lost out in 
any way because of the incorrect impression RSA left them with after the first claim 
notification call. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mr B and Miss B, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by home insurance. Only damage caused by 
one of the insured events (or, perils) listed in the policy is covered, for example, accidental 
damage, fire, theft, flood etc. And, even if a policyholder can show the damage was caused 
by one of the events listed in the policy, the policy will still contain limitations and exclusions 
which the insurer can rely on to defeat the claim. 
Here, Mr B and Miss B have suffered a leak to the mains water supply pipe servicing their 
home. The leak was located in their front garden. 
Mr B and Miss Bs policy does include cover from tracing and accessing leaks but certain 
limitations to that cover do apply. The policy states: 
15 Trace & access
We will pay for the cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings to find and
repair the source of any water or oil escaping from tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed
heating system in the buildings. 
Words that are emboldened in the policy have specific meanings. The policy defines 
Buildings as: Your home, landlords fixtures and fittings, patios, terraces, footpaths,
swimming pools, tennis courts, drives, walls, fences and gates. And it defines home as: 
Your private dwelling in the United Kingdom as detailed on your Policy Certificate
In order to be covered for trace and access under the policy the leak needs to be in the 
buildings (as defined). The policy definition of buildings doesnt extend to the garden, so I 
dont think, given where the leak was located, that RSA unfairly declined to accept Mr B and 
Miss Bs claim for trace and access cover. 
I can see that Mr B and Miss B have accepted that the cost of repairing the pipe itself isnt 
covered by the policy and that they paid £395+VAT to their contractor. For the sake of 
completeness, I have also reviewed the policy in respect of the damage to the pipe and am 
satisfied that RSA correctly stated that it wasnt covered. There is cover for accidental 
breakage to underground drains and pipes providing service to the home under the policy. 
But there is also a general policy exclusion for damage thats the result of wear and tear. I 
dont think RSA reached an unreasonable decision when it decided the pin hole leak was 
likely to be the result of wear and tear. That means I dont think RSA unfairly decided to 
decline this aspect of Mr B and Miss Bs claim.Its not in dispute that Mr B and Miss B were in receipt of some misinformation about the 
coverage of the claim during their first phone call to RSA. RSA has admitted it provided poor 
customer service. The consequence for Mr B and Miss B of receiving incorrect information 
from RSA about their claim was that they expected it to be covered. In fact this was a false 
expectation. I have to consider the consequences of RSAs error for Mr B and Miss B and 
particularly whether it caused them to incur any additional costs or to suffer some other form 
of detriment.
The cost of tracing and accessing the leak and or repairing the pipe always fell outside the 
cover offered by Mr B and Miss Bs policy. So if RSA had given Mr B and Miss B correct 
information in the first phone call the fact remains that they wouldve always had to pay 
themselves to locate and repair the leak. What RSA did was unfairly raise their expectations 
only to dash them later. But it admits it handled the call poorly and that it shouldve made it 
clear that trace and access cover only applied in limited circumstances. 
But Mr B and Miss B are no worse off financially as a consequence of RSAs mistake; they 
would always have been responsible for locating and repairing the leak. But it was unfair of 
RSA to raise Mr B and Miss Bs expectation that their claim would be covered. The mistake 
caused them disappointment and upset. RSA accepted it was at fault and has offered to pay 
Mr B and Miss B compensation of £100. I think RSAs offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and is in line with awards this service has made in similar cases. Indeed, if 
this complaint had passed across my desk without an offer of compensation having been 
made, its unlikely that Id have awarded any more than this. 
I can see that RSA also offered Mr B and Miss B compensation of £25 in recognition of the 
shortcomings and delays in the way it handled their complaint. I cant look at that issue here 
for them. Thats because complaints handling isnt an activity regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and consequently doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman