DRN-2732620
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) mis sold him a 
loan. He said they didnt send him a loan agreement and they changed the loan term and 
interest rate. He is also unhappy that theyd extended the term of his loan after he applied for 
a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr M used an on-line comparison site to identify a loan provider. He wanted to raise finance 
to fund the purchase of a car. Having considered the various offers and packages available, 
he decided to apply for a Yorkshire Bank Loan.
Mr M completed his loan application online on 19 December 2019. His application was 
agreed, and the loan amount was drawn on 20 December 2019.
In March 2020, Mr M contacted Yorkshire to arrange a payment holiday for three months. He 
was worried that his income might be impacted by the global pandemic at the time. 
Yorkshire agreed to this. 
Having received an annual loan statement in December 2020, Mr M noticed that the original 
loan term was over six years. He believed that hed applied for a loan over five years. He 
also noticed that the interest rate quoted on his statement was 7.9% APR. He said that the 
loan hed applied for and agreed had a rate of 3.1% APR. So, he didnt think that the 
information sent to him was correct.
Mr M was also unhappy to find that the payment holiday agreed meant that the term of his 
loan had been extended by another three months to a total of 75 months. He didnt think this 
was right. 
Mr M contacted Yorkshire in January 2021 to complain that the loan details provided werent 
what hed agreed to. He told Yorkshire that hed never received a loan agreement from 
them. He said that he didnt realise that the loan was wrong until he received his annual 
statement. He said that Yorkshire had deliberately not sent the agreement to him. 
Mr M also complained that Yorkshire extended his loan term as a result of a payment holiday 
agreed with him. He said he hadnt received anything to confirm this.
Yorkshire replied to Mr M by letter dated 14 January 2021. Having checked their records, 
they didnt think theyd made a mistake here. Mr M wasnt happy with their response. So, he 
decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr M complaint. She didnt think that Yorkshire had 
done anything wrong here. Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to recognise that the process for applying and agreeing a loan online is slightly 
different to those arranged in a face to face situation. This means that any questions or 
concerns normally need to be addressed either on-line or over the phone. Online lenders 
use automated systems that enable the process to be simple and streamlined. This usually 
includes the processing and despatch of documentation.
In Mr Ms case, he used an online comparison site and identified a loan offered by Yorkshire 
that appeared to meet his requirements. So, he chose to apply for a loan using their online 
service.
Yorkshire have provided copies of all the personal loan information that Mr M input online 
when applying for his loan. This included copies of each individual application screen. Ive 
reviewed this information in order to fully understand what was included in Mr Ms 
application. Mr Ms personal information appears to be correct, including telephone, address 
and email details. It also includes specific details of the loan that Mr M applied for and what 
was offered by Yorkshire. This shows that the loan application was for £25,000 over a term 
of six years with an interest rate of 4.16%. It then confirms a representative APR of 7.9%.
The APR (Annual Percentage Rate) refers to the total cost of borrowing for a year. It 
includes any standard fees and interest that will be paid. When searching for a loan on a 
price comparison site, the search results are often ranked by representative APR. When a 
loan is advertised with a representative APR, it means that at least 51% of customers 
receive a rate that is the same as or lower than this rate. Although, not everyone in the 51% 
will get the same rate. The rate offered is assessed as part of the application process. 
Mr M provided a screenshot of what he says he applied for. It shows a five-year loan at 3.1% 
APR. From what Ive seen, the screen shots provided appear to be illustrations rather than 
any actual agreement. So, this doesnt mean that this wouldve been the rate offered.  
Mr M said that he didnt receive an agreement form. Yorkshire have provided their audit 
information for Mr Ms loan. It confirms that he started his application on 19 December 2019 
at 20:20. Their system agreed the loan and offered it to Mr M at 20:24. Yorkshire said that 
the process included a pre-contract email to Mr M confirming all the details hed input and 
what had been agreed. A copy of the loan agreement was also included within the online 
application process. 
Acceptance of the loan by Mr M involved an online signature. This was completed by ticking 
a box in the screen flow. I have seen a copy of the screen application form and the box that 
Mr M ticked to confirm his agreement. So, it appears that Mr M did accept the terms detailed 
within it.
The audit information shows that Mr M accepted the offer at 20:26 on 19 December 2019. 
Yorkshire sent an email to Mr M on 20 December 2019 confirming that the loan had been 
opened and set up of the loan was completed on 20 December 2019 at 11:07.
Having reviewed Yorkshires audit information, it appears that the details of the loan applied 
for and agreed are correct. Although I appreciate that Mr M believes that the loan details 
differ from what is shown within the application and agreement, its clear that he confirmed 
his agreement at the time. It also appears that the agreement form was sent to him 
electronically. This is what I would expect in these circumstances.
Mr M maintains that he didnt receive the loan agreement from Yorkshire. He said that he 
had regularly emailed and called them asking for a copy. I invited Mr M to provide specific 
details of when those calls took place together with copies of any emails. Unfortunately, he 
was unable to provide these. Yorkshire have confirmed that they have no record of such 
requests prior to his complaint in January 2021. Given that the agreement had already been 
provided to Mr M as part of the application process, I cant see that Yorkshire did anything 
wrong here.
Yorkshire have confirmed that Mr M applied for a three-month payment holiday in May 2020 
which was agreed. In these circumstances, I would expect normal payments to be 
suspended for the period agreed. They would then recommence along the original terms. That is what happened here. This means that the payment holiday has the effect of adding 
three months onto the originally agreed term. If this hadnt been the case, Mr Ms loan 
repayments wouldve needed to be increased to meet the original term. 
Yorkshire confirmed that a text message was sent to Mr M to confirm the payment holiday 
on 18 May 2020 and a holiday approval letter was sent to him on 28 May 2020. This was 
followed by an end of payment holiday letter on 16 June 2020. The letter clearly states that 
the payment holiday would result in an extension of the term by three months. Yorkshire 
have provided copies of the letter wordings sent to Mr M confirming the payment holiday. So, 
having considered this, I cant see that Yorkshire have made a mistake here either. That 
being said, should Mr M choose to make additional or higher payments, within the terms of 
the agreement, this could result in his loan being repaid sooner.
Yorkshires audit information clearly shows that Mr M saw, confirmed and signed 
electronically the loan agreement which included all the terms that were offered and agreed. 
They also documented the payment holiday in writing to Mr M. I appreciate that Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I cant find any evidence to suggest that Yorkshire bank did 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman