DRN-2967537
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt make reasonable 
adjustments on account of her visual impairment and that they didnt notice the erratic 
spending patterns on her account.
Mrs W is also unhappy with the length of time it took for her son, whom has a lasting power 
of attorney over her affairs, to be added to her account.
What happened
This complaint was raised on Mrs Ws behalf by her son, whom holds a lasting power of 
attorney over Mrs Ws affairs. 
Mrs W wanted to add her son to her account on the basis of the lasting power of attorney 
that he holds so that he can monitor and manage her financial affairs. When Mrs Ws son 
tried to arrange this with NatWest, he found the bank difficult to deal with and that the 
process took longer than it reasonably should have.
Furthermore, when Mrs Ws son reviewed Mrs Ws account history, he noticed that her 
spending patterns had been erratic and that shed incurred considerable charges over recent 
years. Mrs W and her son werent happy about this and felt that NatWest should have 
recognised from the usage on the account that Mrs W was vulnerable. Mrs W and her son 
were also unhappy that NatWest had continued to correspond with Mrs W via letters written 
in standard font size, even though Mrs Ws eyesight had deteriorated considerably. So, Mrs 
W raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mrs Ws complaint. They noted that they hadnt been made aware that 
Mrs W had developed problems with her eyesight or that she should be considered as been 
vulnerable and they also didnt feel that it was reasonable for them to be expected to more 
closely monitor an account without some notice that such closer monitoring was required. 
However, NatWest did acknowledge that the process of adding Mrs Ws son to the account 
had taken longer than it should have done, so they apologised to Mrs W and made a 
payment of £100 to her account as compensation for any inconvenience incurred.
Mrs W and her son werent satisfied with NatWests response, so Mrs W referred her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it 
wasnt reasonable to expect NatWest to have made reasonable adjustments to how they 
monitored or managed Mrs Ws account when they hadnt been made aware of a need to do 
so, and they felt that they £100 compensation paid by NatWest to Mrs W for the length of 
time it had taken to add her son to the account did represent a fair resolution to that aspect 
of the complaint. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W and her son remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs W and her son to have 
encountered unnecessary delays when trying to add Mrs Ws son to the account. And I can 
further understand how Mrs Ws son would have been upset at what he and Mrs W saw as 
NatWest not making reasonable adjustments in how they monitored Mrs Ws account in light 
of the spending patterns and charges on the account, as well as in regard to he letters that 
NatWest continued to send to Mrs W in a font size which she found increasingly difficult to 
read.
This service would expect NatWest to have made reasonable adjustments to how they 
managed Mrs Ws account, including that they would have sent letters to Mrs W in a format 
that she could read and understand and that they would have paid more attention to the 
spending and usage of Mrs Ws account. However, this service would only expect this of 
NatWest if it was reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought to be aware of a need for such 
adjustments to have been made.
But in this instance, NatWest werent aware that such adjustments were needed, and one 
reason for this was because they had never been made aware that Mrs Ws eyesight had 
deteriorated to a point that she couldnt read the letters that she was being sent, or that Mrs 
W was struggling to manage her financial affairs such that closer monitoring of Mrs Ws 
account was warranted.
Im aware that Mrs W and her son feel that it should have been apparent from Mrs Ws 
spending patterns and account usage that she was struggling to manage her financial 
affairs, and that these things in and of themselves should have been sufficient for NatWest 
to have monitored Mrs Ws account more closely and taken necessary action with regard to 
the charges being incurred on the account.
Im not convinced by Mrs W and her sons position here, and I dont feel that its reasonable 
to expect NatWest to provide additional monitoring to its customers accounts to be able to 
recognise potential instances where customers are struggling to manage their financial 
affairs. And, while Im aware that there are automated recognition systems in place with 
banks with regards instances of potential fraud, these systems arent designed to recognise 
instances of potential financial difficulty.
Mrs W and her son are also unhappy with the length of time it took for NatWest to add Mrs 
Ws son to the account. I can appreciate their position here, but NatWest have already 
acknowledged that the level of service that they provided to Mrs W and her son wasnt to the 
standard that they aspire to in this regard, and theyve made a payment of £100 to Mrs W to 
compensate her for this. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and reasonable 
by one party not being considered as such by another party. But, while I appreciate that Mrs 
W and her son might feel differently, the £100 that NatWest have already paid to Mrs W as 
compensation for this does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
All of which means that Id find it very difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking NatWest to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs W and her son were wanting here, but I 
hope that they will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman