DRN-4034874
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him loans and 
a credit card that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr J borrowed with HSBC over a period of about 20 years. In this case I am looking at four 
loans and a credit card Mr J took out between 2007 and 2018.
 
Mr J says that HSBC failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial position. 
He thinks HSBC was negligent in allowing him to take the lending. He asks that HSBC pay 
back all interest he paid.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr J made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint was 
passed to me to make a decision.
I reached a different view to that of our investigator and wrote to both parties to explain this. I 
invited both parties to make further comments. Mr J agreed with my decision and asked a 
number of other questions which I address in this decision. He also supplied a pay slip, 
although this does not affect my overall decision. HSBC did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, I came to a different conclusion to that of our investigator. I think Mr Js 
complaint should be upheld in relation to the last loan he took in 2018. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
HSBC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Js income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that HSBC should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Js income, the total amount Mr J borrowed, and the length of time Mr J 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
Mr J first took a loan with HSBC in December 2007. It was for £2,000, repayable at £51.10 a 
month over five years. At the time Mr J had an overdraft facility of £1,2000 with HSBC and 
an existing loan also with HSBC for £750. 
In January 2009 Mr J took out a credit card with HSBC. The initial limit was £5,250 which 
was increased later to £6,300. Mr J had an overdraft facility of £1,500.
In February 2015 Mr J consolidated his borrowing in a loan for £7,000, repayable at £146.91 
a month over five years. His credit card limit was £6,300 and his overdraft limit had been 
increased to £3,000.
Mr J had an income of £20,450 in 2009, but by 2015 it had increased to £49,500. Mr J 
supplied a further payslip from 2018 which shows Mr Js income then was just over £50,000.
HSBC says it did credit checks at the time of all this lending but hasnt been able to provide 
the results of those checks given the time that has passed. I dont think this is unreasonable 
in the circumstances; businesses are not allowed to retain information indefinitely.
In the absence of the results of those checks I cant be satisfied that HSBC did appropriate 
and proportionate checks. But that doesnt necessarily mean the lending was unaffordable or 
unsustainable. I need to think about what HSBC ought to have seen if it had done 
appropriate and proportionate checks.
 
To assist with this, we asked Mr J to provide copies of his credit file and bank statements 
from around the time of each lending decision. Mr J was able to provide his credit file but 
given the time which had passed since the lending, some of the lending I have mentioned so 
far didnt appear on it. There is nothing on his credit file to indicate anything of concern 
before 2013. And Mr J wasnt able to provide any bank statements. So, for the borrowing in 
2007 and 2009 I cant be sure that HSBC would have seen anything to suggest it shouldnt 
have lent to Mr J. 
However, I can see from his credit file that he did have one account which was being 
managed by a debt collection agency from November 2013.  I cant tell exactly what the 
balance was at the time, but it seems likely it was around £5,700 which had been owed on a 
credit card. So, I think for the 2015 loan its likely this arrangement would have appeared in 
HSBCs credit checks, and it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have conducted 
further checks by verifying Mr Js income and expenditure. 
By this time, Mr Js income as almost £50,000. His overdraft with HSBC was £3,000 and his 
credit card limit with HSBC was £6,300. I dont know what the repayments were each month 
on the debt which was with the collection agency at that time, but I think sustainable 
repayments on it would have been in the region of £250 a month. It doesnt look as if Mr J 
defaulted on these repayments by the time of the 2015 loan and without sight of Mr Js bank 
statements from the time which might help me understand his income and expenditure 
better, I cant be sure that HSBC would have seen anything to make it consider Mr Js 
repayments would have been unaffordable for him. 
In May 2016 Mr J took out a loan for £37,389 including interest, repayable at a rate of 
around £400 a month over 94 months. The capital amount borrowed was £24,000. This was 
intended to consolidate his other borrowing, and I can see from the offer letter from HSBC 
that the loan was agreed on this basis. HSBC said the loan was dependant on Mr J repaying his earlier loan from 2015, repaying and closing his credit card and repaying his overdraft 
balance. The overdraft was then to be limited to £2,000. According to HSBCs records Mr J 
had about £15,000 of outstanding debt with HSBC on which he was making monthly 
repayments of £295 a month. Mr J also declared other lending elsewhere and said he was 
making repayments costing around £540 a month on those. Mr J also provided details of his 
essential outgoings each month which were around £1,425 including mortgage and childcare 
costs. 
Mr Js monthly net income was said to be £3,273. Once his essential expenses and the cost 
of his new borrowing (minus the repayments which would be settled as part of the new 
borrowing) HSBC calculated Mr J had a disposable income each month of about £840 a 
month. 
I think this shows that HSBC was considering Mr Js whole borrowing to decide whether the 
loan was affordable for him. However, its not clear to me whether the data was obtained 
from Mr J or from credit file sources, or that Mr Js existing borrowing was accurately 
reflected in the assessment of Mr Js existing credit facilities. For example, although 
information from that time is limited on Mr Js credit file I can see that there was a loan taken 
with another provider in July 2014 - seven months before the loan I am looking at - which 
had an opening balance of almost £27,000. I dont think its likely that loan had been reduced 
to the £9,000 which appears on HSBCs assessment of his existing credit, not least because 
the loan account was closed in April 2018 with a balance of just over £20,000.
 
However, it does seem that the monthly repayments were relatively accurately declared at 
£200 a month. So, while I think its likely Mr J was more indebted than HSBC understood, I 
think HSBCs assessment of his outgoings for outstanding debt was still likely reasonably 
accurate. 
At the time HSBC did check Mr Js income and expenditure which showed that he had a 
monthly disposable income of about £840 a month. I dont know what other information 
HSBC had from its credit checks, but I think given the outcome of the income and 
expenditure assessment that the loan was likely to be affordable and could be repaid in a 
sustainable way, especially when taking into account Mr J was consolidating debts at a 
lower rate than that he was currently paying. 
In July 2018 Mr J applied for a further loan of £20,000. HSBC records show that there was 
no intention to close his existing loan, so this was additional debt. Prior to this application in 
December 2017 Mr J had asked for an increase in his overdraft facility which was declined. 
In November 2017 HSBC had tried to contact Mr J, seemingly to discuss his potential 
lending needs which indicates to me that HSBC was keeping a check on how Mr J was 
managing his finances. So I think there were some concerns about Mr Js financial situation 
shortly before he applied for the loan.
Again, there are no records of the credit checks completed. I am less sympathetic about the 
absence of this information, given it was only about three years later than Mr J first 
complained. I think given the information HSBC had readily available about Mr Js finances 
(the rejected overdraft request and the contact to discuss his circumstances) that there was 
enough to indicate that HSBC needed to do more checks. I think at this stage HSBC needed 
to not only ask Mr J about his income and expenditure but to verify that information.
I cant tell exactly what Mr Js expenditure was at that time. He declared his income as about 
£3,500 net a month, which is commensurate with a salary of about £60,000  although Mr J 
declared an income of £55,000 a year. His recently provided payslip shows he was earning 
closer to £50,000. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to assume Mr J had declared his 
income correctly. Mr J declared mortgage expenses of £600. His credit file indicates he was paying around 
£760 to two lenders. His monthly outgoings were declared as around £1,450 a month, 
leaving a disposable income of around £2,000. The declared essential spending appears far 
too low and it is inconsistent with the declared outgoings in 2016  for example, spending on 
utilities had increased eight-fold, whereas shopping was declared at £200 when food 
spending alone had been over £500 in 2016. No other borrowing was declared, when it is 
clear from Mr Js credit file that he had significant other borrowing at that time, including 
accounts with debt collectors, an HP arrangement for a car and a credit card with a balance 
of at least £5,600. One account  I think likely to be for the personal loan with another lender 
I have mentioned earlier  had been passed to a debt collection agency in April 2018. 
I think if HSBC had completed standard credit file checks it would have seen this information 
and I think its likely it would have considered that Mr J was unlikely to have been able to 
sustainably repay the proposed new lending. The income and expenditure assessment 
HSBC completed was inconsistent with information previously provided by Mr J. And while in 
some circumstances I think its reasonable for a business to be able to rely on information 
provided by the customer, in this case I think HSBC needed to verify the information he 
provided. And I think its likely if HSBC had verified Mr Js circumstances that it would have 
concluded that Mr J could not afford to borrow any more money and it wouldnt have lent to 
him. So I think Mr J lost out as a result of what HSBC did wrong in relation to the 2018 loan.
While I have not been able to view Mr Js bank statements, these ought to be readily 
available from HSBC. I invited both parties to supply these to assist me in reaching my final 
decision, but neither party was able to. So I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right.
As Mr J has had benefit of the capital sum he borrowed I do not think it would be fair to make 
HSBC pay that money back to him. However, I think HSBC should:
Identify the total amount of money Mr J received as a result of having been given the 
loan on 6 July 2018.
Subtract the repayments Mr J has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr J having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Js credit file relating to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
I understand that Mr J is currently in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Any 
compensation paid as a result of this decision is likely to need to be paid towards this 
arrangement. Mr J should check with his IVA supervisor. While I do not know the details of 
his IVA I think it is unlikely Mr J has paid off the capital he borrowed and so it is unlikely 
there will be any payment made towards Mr Js IVA.  
Mr J has asked if this loan is effectively written off. This is not the case. Only the interest 
and charges will be refunded - or applied to the outstanding debt if one remains.
Mr J has asked me to consider awarding a payment for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is relatively rare in such cases, and I do not consider that a case for significant 
distress or inconvenience over and above that involved in pursuing the complaints process 
has been made out. While Mr J says that the issue caused him physical ill-health I am 
unable to be satisfied that there is a direct link between what HSBC did wrong and his health 
conditions.  
Mr J has also asked what this decision means in relation to loan that was running at the 
same time as his loan with HSBC. I have considered only the products that I have detailed in 
this decision. Any other loan being considered by this service will be reviewed on its 
individual merits. However, as compensation has already been directed in this case partly on 
the basis of Mr Js indebtedness, it is possible that any compensation in another case will 
take into consideration that Mr J has been compensated for this loan. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint only in relation to the loan taken on 6 July 2018. I do not uphold his 
complaint about the earlier lending. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation as 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman