DRN-3686831
The complaint
Ms H has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly declined to provide cover under 
her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms H phoned AWP to ask it to send an engineer when she found a water leak in her home. 
AWP said it didnt provide trace and access cover so wouldnt be able to send someone to 
find the source of the leak. 
So, Ms H complained to AWP. When AWP replied, it said the policy didnt provide trace and 
access cover. It said it had been correct to decline the claim.
When Ms H complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
didnt provide trace and access and Ms H had confirmed this was required to find the leak.
As Ms H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms H wanted AWP to send an engineer. However, it declined to do so because trace and 
access work was required. Ive looked at the policy. This had an exclusion that said the 
policy didnt cover Any repair that requires trace and access works to be completed. The 
policy also explained that trace and access was: The process of identifying and locating the 
source of the emergency or gaining the necessary access to resolve the emergency.
Ive listened to a phone call between Ms H and AWP. In this phone call, which seemed to be 
the third call Ms H made to AWP, the call handler confirmed there wasnt cover for trace and 
access. Ms H also described what she had already done to try and find the leak, including 
that a builder had been out to look and said he would send a plumber to try and trace the 
source of the leak. So, I think it was clear that trace and access was needed and, on that 
basis, it was reasonable for AWP to say it couldnt send an engineer.
I also note that Ms H said the call handler couldnt explain why an engineer couldnt be sent. 
However, based on what I heard, the call handler explained the policy only covered visible 
leaks. She said trace and access wasnt covered because the cost of it was normally greater 
than the policy limit for the home emergency policy. The call handler also said home 
insurance policies normally provided cover for trace and access, so they would usually direct 
policyholders to their home insurer. But the call handler said she didnt have access to Ms 
Hs home insurance policy and couldnt comment on what it provided cover for. The call 
handler also said that once the source of the leak had been traced AWP would be able to 
send someone to stabilise the leak.
Im also aware that Ms H explained to this service that the leak was found by lifting a lid on 
the cabinet housing the toilet pipes and no tools were needed. However, AWP made its 
decision based on the information provided at the time. Based on that, I think it was 
reasonable that AWP didnt send an engineer.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AWP to do 
anything further.
Im aware Ms H has also complained about issues related to the sale and renewal of the 
policy. However, that is a separate complaint, which Im unable to comment on as part of this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman