DRN-1986803
The complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI taken out in 1992 to cover Mr Ps Visa and Mastercard. The 
cards were issued at the same time when Mr P applied for a credit card account. The bank 
cant confirm where the PPI was sold. It assumes it was in a branch and I have reviewed the 
sale on that basis. The PPI gave Mr P protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know 
about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr P that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to take it 
out. There isnt much information to go on in this case, because everything happened so 
long ago. And I dont think its surprising or unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mr Ps 
application form any more. 
From what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards at this time, I think its likely 
Lloyds wouldve made Mr P aware he had a choice about PPI. The sample of the application 
form hes likely to have used shows he would have needed to tick a box to take out PPI. 
Overall, without stronger evidence showing the bank didnt make it clear PPI was optional, I 
cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr P without giving him a choice, and him 
agreeing to take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P. This means Lloyds had to make sure it 
was right for him. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr P told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay, but the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months.
In response to the adjudicators letter, Mr P said to ask the bank how many times it had paid 
out as he was hospitalised when he had the cover, but then went on to say it didnt as he 
was receiving sick pay. He previously told us he had never made a claim under his PPI. We 
tried to clarify his point here: was it about rejected claims, or the fact he didnt need PPI as 
he had sick pay - but had no reply from Mr P. 
If it is that he made an unsuccessful claim(s) and he wants to complain about this, he must 
first contact the bank to raise this as a separate issue. He can of course bring that complaint 
to us if he is unhappy with the banks response. 
If it was that he had sick pay so didnt need PPI, as I said earlier, the PPI paid out in addition 
to any work benefits. If he didnt raise a claim(s) but feels he could have done so 
successfully, he might be able to make a retrospective claim(s) and should contact the bank 
or insurer directly to discuss this.
Mr P initially told us he had savings worth less than three months salary, but then said he 
had no other means at the time of the sale. If he had some, the PPI would have allowed him 
to use any savings for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his 
future needs. Mr P also said his family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. So, overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr P if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And the PPI wouldve been competitively priced, and it was apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out PPI.
So, overall, this means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr P any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr P the difference between 
what Mr P owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr P 8%* simple interest (15% 
before April 1993) if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman