DRN-3074348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have 
unfairly recorded information about an incident to their home.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has previously been 
comprehensively detailed by our investigator. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs N hold their home insurance with LV.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs N reported a crack to the wall of their property to LV. It 
carried out investigations, as did a structural engineer appointed by Mr and Mrs N.
In November 2020 LV sent its renewal documents. Mr and Mrs N noticed the 
premium had increased and that the incident was recorded as a subsidence claim. 
They raised this with LV as they didnt feel it was accurate.
Shortly after, LV received confirmation from its loss adjuster the property wasnt 
suffering from subsidence. So, it said it closed the claim as notification only and 
recalculated the premium for the year (refunding the additional cost).
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy as they said it shouldve never been recorded at all.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She agreed Mr and Mrs N had 
initially said they hadnt intended to claim on the policy. But following a discussion on 
the phone she said Mr and Mrs N agreed to speak to a claims handler and talked 
through details of when an excess would be payable as well as agreeing to a visit 
from an LV loss adjuster. 
So, the investigator said it was reasonable for LV to log this incident as a claim 
initially. And its actions following this to recalculate premiums once it was established 
there was no subsidence and record it as an incident only was fair.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They said:
oThey had been clear throughout conversations with LV that they didnt intend 
on making a claim;
oLVs loss adjuster had agreed with Mr and Mrs Ns structural engineer from 
the outset that there was no subsidence;
oThe insurance industrys actions recording claims and incidents would likely 
deter policyholders from notification.
Our investigator looked again, but she didnt change her mind. She said LVs actions 
to instruct a loss adjuster were with the intention of establishing whether an insured 
event took place  which is what it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) is a shared database record of insurance 
claims and incidents. This is used by LV and the majority of insurers across the 
industry. These insurers have an obligation to maintain accurate records on CUE.
Ive reviewed all of the evidence available and I agree with our investigator that the 
actions LV were taking, and agreed by Mr and Mrs N, suggested a claim may take 
place. So, Im satisfied LV wasnt acting unfairly by reporting this as an open claim 
initially while it established whether or not a claim would go ahead.
Following LVs investigation, it refunded the additional premiums and changed the 
incident to notification only on CUE. These are steps Id have expected LV to take 
as no claim proceeded.
Mr and Mrs N have raised concerns about the potential future impact of this incident 
being reported as notification only. It will be for an insurer to determine whether this 
impacts its premium calculations. But as Im satisfied LV has reported this accurately 
and in line with its own obligations, I wouldnt expect it to amend the record or do 
anything further.
I understand Mr and Mrs N disagree with this industry practice, but this hasnt 
changed my mind. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman