DRN-4036266
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has only refunded some of the money she lost to 
a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In February 2022 Mrs R received a text from, what appeared to be, the NHS about 
covid-19 contact tracing which asked her to get tested. She clicked a link to buy a test 
and, as part of that process, provided various personal details as well as her bank and 
credit card details. A discussion with a friend soon afterwards helped her release this 
might actually have been a scam. So she called HSBC who arranged for her credit card 
to be stopped and a replacement issued. A discussion took place about the scam and 
some warnings were given by the bank.
The next day Mrs R received a phone call from someone who said they worked for 
HSBCs fraud team. This individual, who turned out to be a scammer, persuaded Mrs R 
that her account had been compromised and the money in it needed to be moved to a 
safe account. He told Mrs R to move £7,000 into her current account from her savings 
account. He then guided her through the process to create a new payee for an account 
which was supposedly in her name. And he persuaded her to make a payment of £3,950 
and then £3,850 to this account. The call disconnected after the second payment and 
Mrs R soon realised shed been scammed, so called HSBC to report the fraud.
HSBC considered Mrs Rs claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. The 
bank said Mrs R had been given effective warnings while processing the first payment 
and during the previous days conversation, but no warnings were given in connection 
with the second payment. It also said Mrs R ought to have done more to check the caller 
was a genuine bank employee. So the bank refunded 50%, or £1,925 of the second 
payment. Mrs R didnt think shed been treated fairly, so asked us to look into her 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I was minded to uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint in part.  I have reproduced my provisional findings here:
Theres no dispute that Mrs R made the two payments to the scammer from her HSBC 
account. That means they were authorised by her. So the starting point under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mrs R is 
responsible for the payments along with any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Mrs R should have received a 
refund of the money she lost under the provisions of the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). HSBC has signed up to the Code, which is 
designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment scams. But the Code places a 
level of care on Mrs R too.
Under the CRM Code, and relevant to this particular complaint, a bank may choose not to 
reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored what the Code refers to as an effective warning in relation to the 
payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods 
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
The Code defines the requirements for a scam warning to be considered effective and Im 
not currently satisfied those requirements were met. As a result, Mrs R cant be said to have 
ignored an effective warning. I say this because:
HSBC has pointed to the warnings given to Mrs R in a call that took place the day before 
the safe account scam was actually perpetrated. The Code requires that the warning 
must be delivered in a timely manner at points in the payment journey most likely to 
have impact on the Customers decision-making. So I dont think HSBC can fairly rely 
on a warning given the day before the payment was made. Although I do think the 
discussions that took place during that call should be taken into account when deciding if 
Mrs R had a reasonable basis of belief and I will speak more about that below.
HSBC has provided various screen shots of the process Mrs R would have followed to 
set up the new payee. And I see a warning is given that criminals may pretend to be 
people the customer trusts (like HSBC), but it will never ask the customer to move 
money. But this warning is located at the bottom of the screen below six fields where the 
payees details must be entered and below the button the customer must press to move 
to the next part of the process. I think this message could be missed, particularly in 
Mrs Rs situation where she was being coached by a scammer. And, in any event, the 
warning doesnt explain that the payment would be irrevocable or mentions the 
consequences of proceeding. So it doesnt meet the requirements of an effective 
warning. 
HSBC has provided screen shots of the various payment reasons it says it presents to 
customers after it identified a high risk transaction, along with a warning about fraudsters 
pretending to be from places you trust, like your bank. But I dont think this warning goes 
far enough given the requirements of the Code. And, in any event, HSBC hasnt shown 
me which payment reason Mrs R selected so I cant be sure she was shown this 
message. 
HSBC has already accepted that it ought to have identified a scam risk and given an 
effective warning when Mrs R made the second payment. I agree with this position.
I currently think HSBC has done enough to establish that Mrs R didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing the person she was sending money to was legitimate. I say this having 
taken the following into account:
Mrs R realised shed been scammed the day before she made these two payments to the 
fraudster. Ive listened to a recording of the conversation she had with the bank when she 
reported this. She explained, unprompted, what had happened and commented that the 
scam was very clever  shed thought it was a bit strange but still provided her personal and 
bank details. Mrs R also asked HSBC specifically if her debt card was at risk because 
although she hadnt given away those details, she had given her bank account details. The bank reassured Mrs R that the debit card details hadnt been compromised and a scammer 
couldnt make transfers from her account just by being in possession of her bank account 
details.
The call-handler went on to explain that:
Criminals were becoming more sophisticated and Mrs R might get one or more phone 
calls from someone pretending to be HSBC or the Police. 
These callers might use various tactic including saying that her account is unsafe and/or 
that she would need to move her money to a safe account. 
HSBC would never ask for her security credentials or ask her to move her money. 
If Mrs R received this type of call then she should hang up and call the bank, preferably 
from a different phone. 
Mrs R did sound slightly distracted at the end of this call when the call-handler asked if he 
could help with anything else. But I think shed seemed engaged prior to this including during 
the warnings, agreeing several times with what the call-handler was saying. And, 
importantly, when she called to report the scam the next day she mentioned, unprompted 
and very early on in the call, that shes been told the previous day not to take the call if she 
did receive one from the bank. 
Mrs R also tells us she was anxious and unsure about what the scammer was saying at 
various times during the call. She asked the scammer lots of questions and made the first 
payment nervously. For example, she asked the scammer how she could be sure he was a 
genuine employee and he pointed to the number he was calling from which was one digit 
different to the one on the back of Mrs Rs card. Its not clear to me why, given the warnings 
given the previous day, Mrs R didnt just hang up and call the actual number on the back of 
her card.
Mrs R also says the scammer told her that her current account was being hacked and she 
needed to make two payments that amounted to more than to £7,000 to activate her new 
account. And, when Mrs R questioned this, the scammer said that amount had something to 
do with HSBCs policy and retaining her Premier Customer status. Mrs R says the scammer 
was calm and confident but also rushing her and I know these are common tactics that 
scammers will use. But I also have some difficulty understanding why Mrs R accepted what 
she was being told. The £7,000 was in her savings account and she doesnt suggest the 
scammer told her this account was similarly compromised  so why was it necessary to 
move this money out? But even if that was the case, theres been no suggestion that was 
the full amount held in her account and I note there was more than £1,000 left in her current 
account after making the two payments out. And if Mrs R thought her money was at risk then 
I dont understand why she didnt move all of her money out. 
I appreciate the scammer was able to give confident answers to each of Mrs Rs questions 
and likely stressed the urgency of the situation. But I also wonder if her nervousness 
stemmed, in part, from having been scammed just the day before. Those events and the 
warnings given by the genuine banks employee may still have been in her mind. In the 
circumstances, I currently think Mrs R too readily accepted the scammers explanations.
Overall, as both parties ought to have done more here, I currently consider a fair outcome in 
this case is for HSBC to reimburse 50% of both payments. As noted above, the bank has 
already refunded 50% of the £3,850 payment.
Im satisfied that when HSBC was made aware of what had happened it tried to recover the 
money. Unfortunately, those attempts seem to have been unsuccessful.Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, I currently think HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund £1,975 (equal to 50% of first payment she made to the scammer).
Add interest on the above refund calculated using the rate applicable to Mrs Rs savings 
account. I say this because I think its more likely than not that, if Mrs R hadnt fallen 
victim to this scam, she wouldve left that money in her savings account.
 
Mrs R and HSBC both accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above. 
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I instruct HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to settle the matter as follows:
Refund £1,975 (equal to 50% of first payment Mrs R made to the scammer).
Add interest on the above refund calculated using the rate applicable to Mrs Rs savings 
account. 
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
HSBC should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of Mrs Rs acceptance 
of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman