DRN-4250955
The complaint
With the assistance of Mrs W, a family member, Mr S complains about the service they 
received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) following a debit card payment.
What happened
Mr S made an online booking with a travel company E. The booking comprised flights, 
accommodation and travel insurance, arranged with different providers. He authorised what 
appears to be a part-payment of £929.51 to be taken from his Halifax account using what I 
understand to be Mrs Ws debit card.
After the booking was made, Mrs W read some unfavourable online reviews of E and 
became concerned about whether the booking would be fulfilled. She says she contacted E 
that evening but made no headway. The following day she visited Halifax seeking its 
assistance to prevent the payment.
Mrs W says the Halifax representative raised the issue with the card disputes team, who 
said to cancel the booking via Es phone app. She adds that at the time the transaction was 
pending and the bank said it would block payment. However, the money was subsequently 
debited. Mrs W sought Halifaxs assistance in recovering the payment, but the bank said its 
attempt to do so had been unsuccessful as E had said the flights were non-refundable.
Halifax says Mrs W and Mr S came into its branch seeking assistance in the belief they had 
been scammed. It says its representative spoke with E, who explained that the flight booking 
was non-refundable. Halifax says that during the branch visit its card disputes team said it 
couldnt assist, as the flights were still due to go ahead. Halifax says it suggested not 
cancelling the flights, as if these didnt go ahead there would be grounds to make a claim. 
However, it says Mrs W didnt want to do this and wanted to book new flights.
Our investigator wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the booking was cancelled by Halifax or that it had 
suggested this course of action, which Mrs W appeared to have already decided upon. 
Noting that E had said the booking was non-refundable (which was supported by a 
screenshot message from E), our investigator didnt consider it unreasonable that Halifax 
didnt pursue a refund on Mr Ss behalf.
Mrs W responded on Mr Ss behalf. She didnt agree with our investigators conclusions and 
the complaint has now been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs W has made certain comments in her response to our initial assessment 
that are perhaps a little unfair, albeit that they probably flow from a sense of frustration at the 
outcome reached. She has questioned the investigators use of opinion in reaching her 
conclusions. That is ultimately part of our role  we receive complaints, consider them, and 
express our views on how they are best resolved. That will sometimes require that we offer 
an opinion based on the facts of a case, and on occasion, where there are differing accounts 
of those facts.
Where  as here  theres a dispute about what happened, we have to base our conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities; in other words, on what we consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence.
Ill deal first with the branch visit. Mrs Ws evidence is that she became concerned when 
reading reviews about E on the evening of making the booking. She attempted to deal with 
those concerns by calling E. When this proved unsuccessful, she visited the Halifax branch, 
having clearly formed the intention to try to prevent payment. Whether she or the Halifax 
representative cancelled the booking on the phone app is not in my view material to the 
complaint outcome. On balance, I find that the booking was cancelled because thats what 
Mrs W wanted to do. Im satisfied that this was not because Halifax undertook the role of her 
advisor in this respect.
Whether the transaction was pending also makes no real difference to the situation. Unlike, 
say, a cheque payment, once authorised a card payment cannot be stopped. This is perhaps 
to be expected; retailers accept card payments on the basis they will be honoured. The 
system would very quickly break down if one could simply cancel the payment at the bank 
after paying with a card for goods or services.
This is recognised in the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR). Regulation 83(2) of 
the PSR says that a payment order initiated through the payee (which is what a card 
payment is) cant be revoked after the payer gives consent to the payee to execute the 
payment. As consent was given to E when the booking was made, Halifax wouldnt have 
been able to prevent payment at the point Mrs W sought its assistance.
Instead, the available mechanism for dealing with debit card payments where theres a 
dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is for the card issuer to see if it can raise a 
chargeback through the card scheme. This brings me to the second aspect  whether the 
bank dealt with Mr S fairly in trying to recover the payment once it had gone out.
Where there are grounds under the card scheme to make a chargeback claim, and that 
claim has a reasonable prospect of success, Id expect Halifax to attempt recovery by this 
means. It should be noted that this doesnt in itself make Halifax liable to refund the money.
Mr Ss booking with E appears to constitute a Linked Travel Arrangement as defined in the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018 (the Regulations). 
Under linked travel arrangements, it is generally the travel service provider  the individual 
airline and/or accommodation provider  that is responsible for performance of the contract. 
The Regulations dont confer an absolute right to a full refund on cancellation of the travel 
arrangements. This is consistent with the response received from E that the flights could be 
cancelled but werent refundable. Like our investigator, I dont consider it likely that any 
attempt by Halifax to pursue a refund via chargeback would have been successful.
Further, I dont see there was much basis on which Halifax was in a position to successfully 
pursue a dispute simply on the grounds that Mrs W believed the flights wouldnt go ahead. 
Theres no chargeback reason that provides for this. As Halifax has said, the card scheme 
rules do provide for chargeback to be attempted in the event that goods or services arent as 
described, or that they havent been provided. But once the booking was cancelled, the 
obligation to provide the flights no longer existed, and a chargeback raised on this basis 
would have been bound to fail.My final decision
I understand Mr S and Mrs Ws strength of feeling here. The amount paid is a lot to lose and 
I can see why theyve done as much as they have to try and recover the money. But for the 
reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I cant fairly require the bank to reimburse 
or otherwise compensate Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman