DRN-3155324
The complaint
Mr R complains Telefonica UK Limited t/a O2 mis-sold him a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
Mr R was an existing customer with O2 and in March 2019, he decided to upgrade his
contract. Through doing this upgrade, Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement for a
new mobile phone device which was around £25 a month for 36 months. And he also
entered into a contract for the airtime (described as a 30 day rolling flexible tariff), which was
£27 a month.
Mr R says the order for the mobile phone device and the airtime contract was made initially
online. This was then followed up by a telephone call with an O2 advisor. Mr R says he was
told during this conversation that he was entering into a 30 day rolling airtime tariff. And that
at the end of a 30 day period, hed be able to either renew the tariff for another 30 days or
look for another airtime tariff elsewhere.
In June 2019, Mr R contacted O2 to let them know he didnt want to renew his airtime as he
says it came to a natural end. At this point, Mr R was told hed have to pay £816.88 in full
and that this was the outstanding amount for the device. Mr R says this wasnt correct as the
agreement for the device was separate to that of the airtime. So, Mr R felt that O2 should
have allowed him to continue making the monthly payments due under the mobile phone
agreement.
O2 sent Mr R a default notice in August 2019 and the account was defaulted in January
2020 - before it was then sold on to a third party debt collector. Mr R says its unfair O2 have
done this as he says there is no outstanding debt to sell.
O2 have provided information to show the airtime contract Mr R agreed to was a 30 day
rolling flexible tariff  which meant he could change his airtime tariff up or down once a
month. O2 also say the terms and conditions relating to Mr Rs pay monthly airtime
agreement say he will be liable for the outstanding amount on the device agreement if 
discontinues the airtime agreement at any point. O2 explained that since the disconnection
of the airtime agreement, Mr R continued to make monthly payments towards the
outstanding balance under the device agreement. O2 have confirmed the outstanding
balance before the debt was sold was £687.88.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. In summary, she said the terms and
conditions of Mr Rs fixed sum loan agreement set out that Mr Rs airtime agreement must
run alongside it. And that if Mr R terminates the airtime agreement for any reason, then the
outstanding balance on his fixed sum loan agreement becomes immediately due. And as Mr
R didnt pay the outstanding amount O2 had asked for, she didnt think O2 had acted unfairly
in defaulting the account.
Mr R didnt agree with this. He remains of the opinion that he entered into the pay monthly
airtime agreement for 30 days. And that he cancelled the airtime contract when it came to a
natural end at the end of a 30 day period.
In December 2019, Mr R says he dropped his device, from waist height, onto a hard surface
which caused the screen to smash. Mr R says this shouldnt have happened as the device
was in a protective case and had a screen protector. As a result, Mr R complains the device
wasnt fit for purpose, wasnt durable and also wasnt safe. Mr R says he offered the device
to O2 for collection on more than one occasion, but that theyve refused to collect it or repair
it.
O2 said there was no evidence to suggest there was a fault with the device. But instead, the
damage occurred as a result of it slipping out of Mr Rs hand. O2 also say Mr R didnt have
any accidental damage insurance in place with them so they werent willing to repair the
device or take it back.
Our investigator looked into this part of Mr Rs complaint. In summary, she agreed the
damage was caused by the device slipping out of Mr Rs hand rather than there being
something wrong with it at the point of sale. And whilst the device was in a protective case
and had a screen protector, these arent a guarantee against any damage. So, she didnt
think O2 needed to repair or replace Mr Rs device.
Overall, Mr R wants O2 to refund the monthly payments he made towards both agreements
and wants O2 to take back the device. As Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view, the
complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision, setting out the below:
Mr R has made a number of representations in his complaint and I want to assure him I have
considered everything he has told us very carefully. I may not address every single point
directly, but I have looked at everything he has raised in coming to my decision. If theres
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to
comment on every individual representation made to be able to reach what I think is the right
outcome.
Is there evidence that Mr R was misled into entering into the agreements?
Effectively, Mr R had two agreements running alongside each other  one was a fixed sum
loan agreement for the mobile phone device and the other was called a Pay Monthly Mobile
Agreement which related to the airtime contract. We have the power to look into this 
complaint as Mr R bought the device under a fixed sum loan agreement which is a regulated
agreement. This is what our jurisdiction flows from as opposed to the airtime agreement
itself.
Ive read the terms and conditions set out on the fixed sum loan agreement for the mobile
phone device. I can see theres a clause which confirms3.2 In order to obtain the credit, you
must also enter into a Pay Monthly Mobile Agreement (including the Equipment Agreement)
which covers the terms and conditions relating to the provision of airtime services (including,
for example, the costs of your calls / texts / data on the O2 Network) and other related
services in connection with Device (Airtime Services).
Having looked at the Pay Monthly Mobile Agreements terms and conditions, it explains that
the agreement has a minimum period (which is the length of the contract) and that the
agreement may be cancelled by giving O2 30 days notice. However, clause 12.6 in the
terms sets out that if a customer has agreed to buy their equipment under a device plan
(which Mr R did in this case), then the terms of that agreement i.e. the ones for the device,
will take precedence. So, I think its fair to say that the terms and conditions set out in the
fixed sum loan agreement for the mobile phone device are the ones that apply in Mr Rscase.
O2 have provided the terms and conditions of the 30-day rolling flexible airtime tariff Mr R
had in place. I can see the terms explain that Mr R had the ability to change the airtime tariff
up or down once a month and I think it likely Mr R would have had to agree to these terms
when he initially applied for the contract online. Having carefully considered the airtime
tariffs terms and conditions, I think theyre clear in setting out what Mr R was able to do
under these terms.
What Ive thought about next is whether Mr R was misled in any way when entering into this
contract. Based on Mr Rs own account, he initially ordered the mobile phone device and
airtime contract online and this was then followed up by a telephone call from an O2 advisor
 it was at this point, Mr R says he was told that he could cancel the airtime agreement after
a 30-day period.
O2 have provided us with an order maintenance form. Theres a section on this form which
shows the source of sale as online. O2 have explained had the sale been initiated and
executed with an advisor (either in store or over the phone), their name would show in the
ordered by section of this form. But instead, Mr Rs email address is in this section.
Having thought carefully about this information, I think its more likely than not that Mr R
executed the order of the mobile phone device and airtime contract online. And so, I dont
think its possible Mr R could have been misled into entering in to the agreements as I dont
think he spoke to an advisor before completing the purchase online. O2 havent been able to
provide us with any evidence of a call taking place but acknowledge there could have
possibly been a welcome call to Mr R after the sale was completed. However, theres no
notes or any other evidence to suggest a call took place. Based on this, Im not persuaded a
call definitely took place. However, even if I were to accept a call took place, I dont have any
evidence to suggest this was during the order process. I also havent seen any evidence that
persuades me Mr R spoke to an advisor before the order took place. Therefore, I dont think
its possible the agreements or the information about the agreements was misrepresented to
Mr R.
Was it fair of O2 to request full payment from Mr R?
I note Mr R doesnt agree that O2 should be asking him to make the full payment that was
outstanding for the device on the fixed sum loan agreement.
Clause 17 of the fixed sum loan agreement says that if the Pay Monthly Mobile Agreement is
terminated (for example, if a customer has used a Porting Authorisation Code (PAC) - which
allows customers to retain their mobile telephone number when switching operators) then
O2 will treat that as notice to terminate the credit agreement. And that theyll have the right
to require immediate repayment of the amount of credit.
I note Mr R has said this term is unfair as he reiterated that the airtime agreement came to a
natural end. The terms and conditions of the fixed sum loan agreement say Mr R needed to
have an airtime agreement running alongside it. Having thought about this term, I dont think
its unfair or unreasonable and should therefore be disregarded. I say this because I dont
think the term is ambiguous or unclear as to what is considered when a customer wishes to
terminate their airtime contract.
Its not in dispute Mr R contacted O2 in June 2019 to let them know he didnt want to
continue with the monthly airtime agreement. I can see from O2s internal notes Mr R was
reminded at this point that he needed to have a pay monthly airtime agreement in place with
O2 for the length of the device plan. The notes also suggest the advisor read out therelevant terms and conditions and reminded Mr R that the remaining amount under the fixed
sum loan agreement would become payable. However, as a result of O2 receiving a PAC for
Mr R, they cancelled the airtime plan and asked Mr R to pay the full amount that was
outstanding on the device plan. Given the terms of this agreement allow for O2 to request
full payment if there wasnt an active airtime agreement in place and given Mr R switched
airtime operators despite being reminded of what this would mean for him, I dont think O2
did anything wrong in asking for Mr R to pay the outstanding balance for the device.
As Mr R didnt make the full payment outstanding under the device agreement, O2 defaulted
the account in January 2020 and then sold the account on to a third-party debt collector. O2
have provided copies of letters from July, August and September 2019 which were sent to
Mr R. And these letters explain how much Mr R owed and that he needed to make the
payment in full. One of the letters provided to us was a default notice. In Mr Rs latest
correspondence to us, he said he never received this notice as it was sent to his mothers
address. And he says he hasnt lived at this address since 2006. As a result of not receiving
the default notice, Mr R says this means the default is unlawful.
I note Mr Rs concerns however, on 15 August 2019, Mr R emailed our service to let us
know that hed received a default notice from O2 which was dated 8 August 2019. Whilst
Mr R didnt send us a copy of the default notice he received, the date hes mentioned of the
letter is the same date as the copy of the default notice O2 sent us  the one Mr R says was
sent to his mothers address. So, given all of the information Mr R has given us, I think I can
only conclude he did receive it  as Ive not seen anything to suggest more than one letter
was issued by O2 on 8 August 2019. And I think this notice makes clear that Mr R is in
breach of his contract and explains he needs to make full payment within 14 days of
receiving the notice.
I appreciate Mr R continued to make monthly payments to the fixed sum loan agreement,
even after it had ended, until December 2019. But this wasnt the full payment as required.
So, I dont think O2 acted unfairly in defaulting Mr Rs account.
Complaint about the quality of the mobile phone device
Mr R feels there has been a breach of contract as he says the device wasnt fit for purpose
as a result of it becoming defective when it dropped from waist height and hit a hard surface.
Mr R says the phone was in a protective case at the time and also had a screen protector,
which he says ought to have provided some protection to the phone.
Having thought about Mr Rs testimony, I agree with our investigator that the damage
caused to the device wasnt as a result of it being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of
supply. Instead, I think its reasonable to suggest that the damage was caused as a result of
an accident and it slipping out of Mr Rs hand, rather than there being an inherent fault with
the device.
Additionally, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr R took out any insurance along with
the agreement, which may have provided cover in an event of accidental damage. So, I
wont be recommending O2 take the device back or repair it.
Response to my provisional decision
O2 responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings.
Mr R responded and made the following points, which Ive summarised in my own words:
1. My decision didnt make reference to the quality of the mobile phone device screen and whether it was fit for its intended purpose or use. Mr R also says I should take 
into account that he has been treated unfairly when attempting to return the phone on 
a number of occasions to O2. 
2. The default notice was sent to the wrong address. And as this was sent after Mr R 
ended the contract in June 2019, he doesnt think the default notice is valid.
3. As I concluded that the sale likely took place online, distance selling regulations 
apply. Also, Mr R says O2 havent shown how they complied with The Consumer 
Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013, Sch 
2. (a), (f), (g), (h), (s) and (t). However, Mr R says he didnt feel he needed to 
elaborate on this further and that all information regarding his complaint had already 
been given to us.  
4. The term which allowed O2 to require for immediate repayment of the amount of 
credit under the fixed sum loan agreement is unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded the issue with Mr Rs screen was as a result of the goods not being of 
satisfactory quality or that there was an inherent fault with the mobile device at the point of 
supply which may have made it not fit for its purpose. Instead, the issue with the faulty 
screen was as a result of the phone slipping out of Mr Rs hand, by his own admission. And 
its for these reasons I dont think O2 have acted unfairly in not taking Mr Rs device back or 
repairing it.
I havent seen anything in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which suggests what Mr R has 
referred to about the default being invalid due to it being sent after the agreement had been 
ended. In any case, Im satisfied O2 made clear to Mr R that the outstanding amount for the 
mobile device was due, when the agreement had been ended. And they explained next 
steps if payment wasnt received. As explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr R 
received the default notice and therefore, I think O2 have acted fairly.
I understand Mr R has raised a point about distance selling regulations, The Consumer 
Contracts and that they apply in his case. Its not clear exactly how Mr R feels these apply in 
his case. But nonetheless, distance selling regulations allow for a cooling off period of 14 
days where Mr R wouldve been able to cancel the agreement. Even though this was 
explained in Mr Rs fixed sum loan agreement, I havent seen any evidence to suggest he 
cancelled this agreement during the 14 days. In any case, Mr R terminated the Pay Monthly 
Mobile Agreement which then allowed for O2 to treat it as notice of terminating the fixed sum 
loan agreement, as per clause 17 of this agreement. So, I dont think O2 have done anything 
wrong here.
As explained in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions are clear in explaining the 
requirement for Mr R to have an airtime agreement running alongside the fixed sum loan 
agreement. And that without the airtime agreement, O2 have the right to require immediate 
repayment of the amount of credit for the mobile phone device. I explained that I dont think 
this term is unfair or unreasonable and my opinion on this remains.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman