DRN-3051253
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the time it has taken Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to make 
payment of a foreign cheque into his account. He believes Halifax can do more than they 
have done for payment to be received.
Mr W referred a complaint to us along with his representative. As the complainant is Mr W, 
for ease, I have addressed my decision to him only throughout, when referring to what he 
and his representative has told us.
What happened
Mr W is a customer of Halifax. He says his grandparent who lived in Spain, passed away in 
2019. Money from the sale of a property of his late grandparents estate was left to Mr W 
and he received a cheque for around €13,000, issued by a Spanish bank. In March 2020, Mr 
W visited a Halifax branch to deposit his cheque and handed it over to them.
Halifax sent the cheque to a bank in Spain for authorisation as part of their process to make 
payment. Halifax received confirmation that the bank in Spain received the cheque.
In May 2020, Mr W chased Halifax for an update as he hadnt received the money into his 
account. He says he was told they were waiting to hear from the bank the cheque was sent 
to in Spain. Halifax used a secure bank messaging system to communicate with the Spanish 
bank. They contacted the Spanish bank on several occasions to confirm the payment but 
didnt receive a response. So, they told Mr W he would need to either arrange for a new 
cheque to be issued or a transfer of funds directly into his bank account.
Mr W says that the Spanish bank will not provide an alternative method of payment or cancel 
the issued cheque and reissue another one and asked Halifax for proof of delivery of the 
cheque to the bank in Spain. While Halifax wouldnt normally provide that information, they 
did so in this instance.
Mr W says he sent the proof of delivery to the solicitor who dealt with his late grandparents 
estate. He suggested the cheque had been sent to the wrong branch office in Spain.
Mr W says he complained to Halifax and was unhappy with the response he received from 
them. Halifax told Mr W they didnt believe they had made a banking error and reiterated that 
they would need to find an alternative method of payment.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. He says this experience has been a very 
stressful time for him. He has recently become a father and was relying on the cheque to be 
deposited to purchase essentials for his baby. He says he also has a mental health condition 
and this experience has resulted in his anxiety levels increasing.
Our investigator found that Halifax hasnt made an error and they had followed their 
processes in sending the cheque to the bank in Spain. She said she hadnt seen anything to 
suggest the cheque was sent to the wrong bank branch in Spain. And she also said that 
Halifax messaged the bank in Spain that received the cheque several times for authorisation 
of payment but didnt receive a response. She believed Halifax did enough to attempt 
payment of the cheque and couldnt say they acted unfairly.
Mr W, unhappy with the investigators outcome, referred the complaint to an ombudsman. Mr 
W believes that Halifax would be able to resolve the issue if they contacted the correct 
Spanish branch through a different form of communication. He also believes Halifax could 
have done more when they didnt receive a reply from the Spanish bank and raise a 
complaint with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint and Ill explain why below.
Its clear there is a communication breakdown between Halifax and the bank in Spain. What 
I need to understand is whether Halifax has correctly applied their terms and acted fairly in 
doing so.
Its important to note that a foreign cheque like Mr Ws, cant be put through a UK clearing 
system in the same way a UK issued cheque would be. Theres one of two ways a foreign 
cheque can be paid  negotiation or collection.
When Mr W handed the cheque over to Halifax, he would have completed a Foreign 
cheque to credit a sterling account form. On this form, it explains that Halifaxs normal 
practice is to use a negotiate method to process payment, but in some cases, they may use 
a collection method. 
Halifax used a collection method which means they didnt immediately exchange the cheque 
and make payment to Mr W, like what would happen if they negotiated it. 
Instead, the collection method means Halifax needed to send the cheque to the bank its 
drawn on, and when received, the issuing bank needed to pay the money to Halifax, so they 
could credit Mr Ws account. 
While Halifax has said so, it isnt clear from what Ive seen whether Mr W chose to collect the 
cheque. But Halifax were within their right to use this method. We might see a bank collect a 
foreign cheque rather than negotiate it where they arent prepared to take the risk of 
crediting a customers account first and then receiving payment for the cheque later. Mr Ws 
cheque was for around €13,000. Considering the high risk and amount to be paid, I think its 
reasonable for Halifax to have used the collection method here.
Halifax say their normal timescales for customers to receive funds using the collection 
method is around 6-8 weeks, however, they say it can take longer.
The Halifax branch Mr W visited, sent the cheque to their international payments centre as is 
their process. Here, the cheque was sent to a Spanish bank in March 2020. Using an 
established delivery company, Halifax received proof of delivery to the Spanish bank.
Mr W believes the cheque was sent to the wrong branch of the Spanish bank. He says this 
as the solicitor who dealt with his late grandparents estate told him so.
Halifax has provided us with their internal documentation which shows their process for 
cheque collections and how they would go about ensuring they send a cheque to the correct bank. They obtain the banks mnemonic from an approved registry. They then input this into 
their system and it generates all of the banks information, including their address and swift 
code. They have also told us that managers at Halifax verified that they processed Mr Ws 
cheque correctly in line with their procedures.
While I appreciate Mr W believes the cheque was sent to the wrong place, on balance, I 
dont think it has been. Im satisfied by what Halifax has told us and by the checks they say 
they completed.
Halifax say they were expecting a response from the Spanish bank they delivered the 
cheque to, so payment could be made to them. As Halifax didnt receive a response, they 
contacted the Spanish bank using a secure method of communication, generally accepted 
by banks. Over a few weeks, Halifax contacted the Spanish bank on several occasions using 
this secure communication channel but didnt receive a reply. Halifax has explained that if 
the contact information they had used to communicate with the Spanish bank wasnt valid, 
the message would have been rejected and they would have received notification of this. On 
this occasion they hadnt received any rejection notification.
Halifax then got in touch with Mr W and explained to him that they hadnt received responses 
and suggested that he tries to receive payment using an alternative method. I dont think this 
suggestion by Halifax was unreasonable, considering the multiple attempts they had made 
to the Spanish bank to make payment.
Mr W has said that the Spanish bank will not provide an alternative method of payment or 
cancel the issued cheque and reissue another one. But I dont think Halifax is to blame here. 
Halifax has followed their processes of collecting a foreign cheque within the timescales I 
would expect them to. On occasions, while Mr W may not think so, I can see Halifax has 
done more than what would be expected from them. They provided Mr W with proof of 
delivery of the foreign cheque to him, which wouldnt normally be required. And I can see 
that they also tried again with the Spanish bank to retrieve payment of the cheque, on Mr 
Ws request.
Mr W believes that Halifax would be able to resolve the issue if they contacted the specific 
branch in Spain through a different form of communication. Halifax told us they can only 
communicate to the foreign bank through their system as contact details have been 
authenticated. If they were to contact the Spanish bank by the method Mr W has suggested, 
it could result in a security breach.
Mr W has also asked if Halifax can send the indemnity the Spanish bank has asked for to 
progress matters. Halifax has told me they arent able to issue an indemnity as they only do 
so when a cheque is missing, and they dont believe that to be the case on this occasion.
I dont think Halifaxs responses here are unreasonable as they have a duty to protect their 
customers from breaches of security and from what they have shown me, I dont think they 
have the cheque in their possession or are responsible for the cheque possibly going 
missing.
Mr W also believes that Halifax could have done more when they didnt receive a reply from 
the Spanish bank and raise a complaint with them. As Ive already said, I think Halifax has 
done what was needed of them.
I appreciate my outcome will be disappointing to Mr W. However, I think Halifax applied their 
terms correctly in this instance and acted fairly in trying to resolve Mr Ws situation. Mr W 
may want to take some legal advice to recover the funds elsewhere, but I dont think Halifax 
has done anything wrong in this instance.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax and dont require them to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman