DRN-3099618
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from esure Insurance Limited (esure) when it 
handled a claim he made on his car insurance policy.
esure is the underwriter of Mr Hs policy and so is also responsible for the actions of its 
agents.
  
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H collided with a bollard in a car park and his vehicle sustained some 
damage. Mr H sent photos of the damage to esure who initially thought that the car would be 
deemed a total loss. Because of this, esure instructed a company, who Ill refer to as R to 
collect the car and take it to the salvage company, who Ill refer to as C, where the car 
waited to be assessed. Both R and C are acting on behalf of esure.
Upon assessment, the engineer thought that Mr Hs car could be repaired, and it was later 
taken to a garage for a repair quote and works to be carried out. Mr H says his car was 
repaired and delivered back to him in April 2021. On inspecting the car, Mr H noticed that his 
wing mirrors, that were originally white, had been replaced with damaged black wing mirrors. 
Mr H added that the wing mirrors hadnt been damaged in the collision.
Mr H contacted the repair garage to find out what had happened, but it responded to say that 
it had received the car from C with black wing mirrors, and it provided photos to evidence 
this. 
Because of this, Mr H assumed that C had taken the wing mirrors without his permission as 
it thought the car was going to be scrapped, and he complained to both esure and C about 
this. 
C then sent an email to esure containing photos and CCTV footage to show that when it 
received the car from R, the car had black wing mirrors.
esure then complained directly to R, to say it believed it had taken the wing mirrors without 
permission. Mr H says he also spent about a week trying to contact R for updates. He kept 
being told that someone would get back to him and they didnt. Mr H continued to contact R 
without any meaningful update and so raised a complaint through esure  as esure are 
responsible for the actions of R.
Mr H says that he lost confidence in his vehicle because he couldnt be certain that other 
elements of the car hadnt been tampered with, and potentially making it unsafe to drive. 
esure felt that it had enough evidence to suggest that R were responsible for taking the wing 
mirrors and replacing these with different ones  and so it arranged for the garage to replace 
the wing mirrors, give the car a health check and offered Mr H £50 to compensate him for 
what happened. 
After this, Mr H spent a considerable amount of time trying to contact R about the issues Ive 
mentioned above, but he says R continued to promise call backs which never happened  
until it eventually responded to his complaint offering him £100.
Mr H says he has lost out on hours of his time trying to resolve the issue and has 
experienced a lot of stress and anxiety as a result. To put things right, Mr H says that he 
would like R to accept liability and make a formal apology. He would like an official 
investigation conducted into what happened and the reason for this. He also wanted a 
criminal prosecution for the person who stole his wing mirrors and an investigation into why it 
took so long to deal with his complaint and why he was promised call backs that didnt 
happen.
esure upheld Mr Hs complaint and paid him a total of £150, changed the wing mirrors and 
paid for a health check on the car. C has also agreed to compensate Mr H with £40. And R 
has paid Mr H £100. So hes had a total of £290 compensation from esure and its agents for 
whats gone wrong.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H but thought that esure should increase its 
compensation to £250 to include the cost of calls Mr H made to esure and its agents and to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H accepted our investigators view, but esure didnt respond, and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr H has sent this service a lot of information for 
me to consider during the course of his complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Id like to express my empathy for Mr Hs situation. Its clear that he feels very strongly about 
his complaint, and I know how important his car is to him. In reaching my conclusion, I dont 
wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr H has found himself in. Ive no 
doubt it was distressing for him when someone collided with his car, and I have sympathy for 
the fact that the situation he now finds himself in appears to be as a result of an incident that 
wasnt his fault.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if esure has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr Hs claim  and while I agree that it has done enough to put things right for 
Mr H in regards to his car, I do feel that it should increase the level of compensation it has 
awarded to reflect the distress and inconvenience the situation has caused him.The crux of Mr Hs complaint appears to be that his wing mirrors were taken and changed 
without his permission. And the difficulties hes experienced in trying to get an answer to 
whats happened. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr Hs wing mirrors were changed without his 
permission  and the evidence appears to point to R, one of esures agents, being 
responsible for this. 
So its left for me to decide if esure has done enough to put things right for Mr H, and I dont 
think it has.
When esure was first notified about what happened, it acted quickly to try and get to the 
bottom of the issue. When it couldnt get in contact with R, it booked Mr Hs car in to get the 
wing mirrors replaced, a health check carried out on the car and awarded compensation. So, 
I think its fair to say that esure got the issues with Mr Hs car resolved within a reasonable 
time frame. 
After this, Mr H continued to contact R for updates about his complaint and for answers 
about what happened. Clearly and unsurprisingly, Mr H has been left very disappointed by 
whats happened. And I can understand how frustrating it must have been for him to spend 
so much time chasing it for information and promised call backs, for this not to materialise. 
For this reason, I think esure should increase its compensation award to £250 to recognise 
the time Mr H has spent dealing with the issue, which has clearly been an unnecessary 
inconvenience he has faced. He has also clearly been deeply disappointed and distressed 
by the actions of esures agents. 
I appreciate that Mr H wants answers, and for a further investigation to be carried out into 
what happened to his wing mirrors, but I think this is something that ought to be left for esure 
to do on an internal basis if it wants to pursue things. Mr H has new wing mirrors now and 
the car has also had a health check to ensure there are no further issues, so I think hes 
been put in the position he would have been in had the incident not occurred.
Putting things right
It is clear to me that the situation of Mr Hs wing mirrors being taken and swapped, while 
under esures care, has been a stressful situation for him. And Ive seen that he has spent a 
lot of time trying to resolve the matter with esure and its agents. For this reason, esure 
should increase the compensation to £250.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. esure Insurance Limited should 
put things right for Mr H by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman