DRN-2926500
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited has 
offered him under his car insurance policy.
  
What happened
The facts in this complaint are well known by Mr G and Admiral. Theyre set out in our 
investigators view and neither Mr G nor Admiral has disputed them. So Im going to focus 
here on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I dont think Admiral has treated 
Mr G fairly and Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mr Gs car insurance policy. This says, to settle Mr Gs claim, Admiral 
can:
pay him a cash sum to repair the damage to his car caused by the accident; 
reduce its settlement if any of the parts to be replaced are already damaged; and 
make its decision based on its garages or engineers recommendation.
I know Mr G thinks Admiral should sort out the repairs and he shouldnt have to. But Mr Gs 
policy allows Admiral to make a cash settlement. In making the settlement, Admiral has 
acted on its engineers recommendation. And he made the recommendation because he 
said Mr Gs car had previously been a category D total loss and had had sub-standard 
repairs to its front end. So, in making a cash settlement in lieu of repairing Mr Gs car, I think 
Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with his policy terms.
Admiral initially reduced the settlement amount it offered Mr G because it said there was pre-
accident damage to his car, specifically to its bonnet. Again, I think Admiral was allowed to 
do this under Mr Gs policy. Thats because it covers the car for damage caused by the 
incident Mr G was claiming for, not earlier damage. As a goodwill gesture, however, Admiral 
increased its offer to include the cost of repairing the pre-accident damage.
Mr G disputes there was pre-accident damage to the cars bonnet. Hes sent us photos of 
the car when he bought it but these dont show much. And Mr G hasnt given us any expert 
information showing there was no pre-accident damage to the bonnet. 
In contrast, Admirals engineer has given a fair amount of detail. He says the claim incident 
caused damage was to the central front of the car, with minor damage to the front leading 
edge of the bonnet. He says the right-hand-side edge of the bonnet/bonnet frame had been 
poorly repaired previously. But for this, he says, the incident-related damage couldve been 
repaired (without the bonnet needing to be replaced).  
Based on this information, I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably and in line with Mr Gs 
policy terms by relying on its engineers report to reduce the cash settlement it initially 
offered Mr G.
Mr G isnt happy with the amount of Admirals cash settlement (which, as Ive said, Admiral 
increased to cover the pre-incident damage). He says the garage Admiral got its quote from 
wont do the work. And he says the rates its quoted arent ones he can get as a private 
individual. So he says he cant get the repairs done for what Admiral has offered.
Admiral says its settled Mr Gs claim on a cash in lieu basis because of the previous poor 
repairs, which need to be dealt with before the incident damage can be. It says this means it 
should be able to calculate the repair costs on the basis of its approved repairer rates, 
because this is what it wouldve had to pay but for the previous poor repairs.
I dont agree. Admiral has decided to make a cash settlement instead of repairing Mr Gs 
car. In doing so, I think its only fair and reasonable it should offer Mr G an amount reflecting 
the cost to him of getting the incident-related damage repaired. In that way, Mr G is put as 
closely as possible back in the position hed have been in had the incident not happened. 
And thats what Mr Gs car insurance is meant to do. But that amount shouldnt include the 
cost of repairing the pre-incident damage, for the reasons Ive already given.
I know Mr G has a repair quote from another company. This is from before he claimed on his 
car insurance, when a credit hire company was helping him. This quote is for considerably 
more than Admirals settlement amount. But it doesnt refer to the pre-incident damage and 
so there are no deductions or adjustments in the quote for it. Because of this, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable of Mr G to rely on this quote as representing an accurate cost to him of 
getting the incident-related damage fixed. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct Admiral to pay Mr G the difference between this quote and the settlement amount its 
offered (and I believe already paid Mr G).
I think the fair outcome in this case, if Mr G doesnt want to accept Admirals settlement offer, 
is for him to get an itemised repair quote from another garage that clearly shows the cost of 
repairing both the incident-related damage and the pre-incident damage to his car. To the 
extent that the quote for repairing the incident-related damage exceeds the settlement 
amount Admiral has already paid Mr G, Admiral should pay him the difference.
When Admiral replied to Mr Gs complaint, it offered him £120 in compensation  £20 for 
phone calls Mr G had to make and £100 for delays at the start in handling his claim. But     
Mr Gs claim has been delayed more since then, because Admiral didnt think its settlement 
should reflect the cost to him (not it) of getting the incident-related repairs done. Mr G says 
this has caused considerable inconvenience to his day-to-day living  including having to get 
insured on a relatives car. He says his partner hasnt been able to do this and this has 
added to Mr Gs inconvenience. In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to pay an additional amount of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused Mr G.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. If Mr G chooses not to accept the 
settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already offered him (and that Ive 
referred to above), I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G:
The amount it costs Mr G to get the incident-related damage only to his car repaired 
(but deducting the amount of any cash in lieu settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already paid to Mr G). But Mr G must give Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited an itemised repair quote for this work before it goes ahead and that quote 
should clearly show separately the cost of repairing both pre-incident and incident-
related damage.
An additional £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
Mr G. This is on top of the £120 I believe it has already paid Mr G (but, if Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited hasnt paid this amount, I direct that it should).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman