DRN-2978176
The complaint
Mrs M says that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card. Mrs M took out 
the store card in a shop, but AXA has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, 
so Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  Mrs M disagreed with this, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done so Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mrs M, so Ill explain the reasons for my decision below.
Mrs M says that she didnt knowingly agree to the PPI policy  and that the store assistant 
filled in most of the application for her  so it mustve been selected by the store assistant. 
However, AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ms store card application. On this, I can see that 
the PPI is presented as an optional product, and Mrs M has signed to select it. This is 
separate to her signature for the store card itself. The box where Mrs M has signed to select 
the policy contains the wording only sign this box if you require account cover. 
Even if the sales assistant did complete some of the application, Mrs M did sign to take out 
the PPI  and it was her responsibility to make sure she read what she was agreeing to. And 
with this in mind, I think that AXA gave Mrs M a choice in taking out the PPI  and that she 
chose to take the policy.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M, so it didnt need to check if the policy was right 
for her  but it did need to give Mrs M the information she needed to decide if she thought it 
was right for her. Its possible that some of this information wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as I think Mrs M chose to take out the policy, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover  so it couldve 
been useful for her if something went wrong. From what I know about this type of PPI policy 
 it was more expensive than some others on the market  but it also offered a higher level 
of cover than most. So, while Ive thought about what Mrs M has told us about the existing 
cover she had in place  this policy couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than these 
wouldve lasted for.
Ive thought about everything that Mrs M and her representative have said, but these points 
dont change my conclusion. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think that the PPI 
policy was mis-sold.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPl policy - Plevin V
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses - introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when they're looking at PPl complaints. 
This means businesses will sometimes need to give consumers back some of the 
commission paid on certain PPl policies. But the new rules are about what lenders need to 
do in cases where the rules apply, and AXA isnt Mrs Ms lender. So these rules apply to this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman