DRN-3158785
The complaint
Mr P has complained FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance, lodged a fraud-
related marker against him without an appropriate reason.
What happened
In 2014 Mr P took out a hire purchase agreement with Motonovo. He believed the car had 
been faulty at point of sale and disputed its condition with Motonovo. As part of his dispute 
Mr P got his bank to recall direct debits hed paid.
The ombudsman service reviewed Mr Ps complaint at the time. We believed there wasnt 
enough evidence to say the car had been faulty at point of sale. Mr P entered into an 
arrangement to pay what was owed to Motonovo.
In 2019 Mr P complained to Motonovo that theyd lodged a fraud-related marker against him 
on the fraud industry database. They accepted theyd lodged a marker for the wrong reasons 
but overall they felt that Mr P had misused the credit facility so the marker would remain with 
amended reasoning. They paid Mr P £750 for the mistake theyd made. 
Mr P brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator believed Motonovo 
hadnt supplied enough evidence to show Mr P had committed a financial crime. The 
complaint was upheld but no further compensation was awarded.
Mr P felt that he should be awarded further compensation. Although the marker had now 
lapsed as six years had passed, hed had banks closing his accounts.
Mr Ps complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Motonovo is aware that there are rules around placing a marker which advises other 
business parties that the applicant has misused a credit facility. This requires it to have 
undertaken sufficient checks to satisfy themselves they have enough grounds to press 
criminal charges as a result of what happened.
Ive got no evidence of the checks Motonovo took. Nor do I think there would have been 
enough there to suggest criminal charges could have been taken against Mr P. I dont 
dispute he cancelled and recalled his direct debits. It wouldnt have been my 
recommendation that that was the step he took in his dispute with Motonovo.
But Im at a loss to see what fraudulent activity Mr P may have undertaken. He was in 
dispute with Motonovo and he owed them money but he wasnt acting fraudulently.
Im satisfied Motonovo had no basis for placing a marker against Mr P.
Putting things right
I can see Motonovo compensated Mr P and gave him £750. In the absence of any evidence 
from Mr P about banks actually closing his accounts or the marker impacting him in any 
other ways, I also believe this compensation is right overall.
I would just add that Motonovos actions seem to suggest they want to put off customers 
from pursuing what they may see as a valid dispute. Id hope this is not what they meant 
here as otherwise that would have to be raised with the regulator.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to uphold Mr Ps complaint but not to instruct 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance, to take any further action.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman