DRN-4489348
The complaint
Mr W is represented. He says Profile Financial Solutions Limited (Profile) gave him
unsuitable advice in 2017 to switch from his ReAssure Group Stakeholder Plan (the 
ReAssure Pension) to an Aegon Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and that the 
investments recommended for the SIPP were unsuitable mainly because  
His investment experience, attitude to risk and capacity for loss had not been 
properly assessed by Profile.
His finances had not been considered, and the advice mismatched his overall 
circumstances.
He had been induced into the transfer by Profiles promise of a rate of growth greater 
than what he could get in the ReAssure Pension. 
His SIPP had been unsuitably invested in non-standard investments.
Profile disputes the complaint and mainly says it was engaged to give focused pension 
review/switch advice; its recommendation matched Mr Ws investor profile; it reduced costs 
for him and resulted in a standard investment portfolio with better prospects; and that, within 
the reduced costs, the SIPP gained him the benefit of an ongoing advice service that he 
previously did not have in the Reassure Pension.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld for 
the following main reasons: 
He referred to factfinding evidence that showed Profile had not obtained basic 
information about Mr Ws personal finances in the course of its advice to him  
including about his income, expenditure, assets and liabilities. As a result, it made no 
attempt to understand his financial capacity or investment experience and it was not 
in a position to know whether (or not) its recommendation was in his best interest.
Flexibility of benefits and ongoing advice were parts of the objectives stated at the 
time, but they were probably not objectives worth conducting the switch for. Mr W 
was 23 years away from retirement, so whilst flexibility of benefits was something 
that may serve him in the distant future (closer to retirement) it did not justify a switch 
at the time of advice. Furthermore, the ReAssure Pension already had available 
drawdown options in this respect. With regards to ongoing advice, such a service (at 
a cost) seems counterproductive against the relatively modest value of the pension 
and Mr Ws circumstances.
On the face of it, the recommendation resulted in a reduction of costs for Mr W  
from an AMC of 1% to one of 0.33% (reaching a total charge of 0.73% after adding 
the 0.4% ongoing advice fee). However, this was only a slight reduction (of 0.27%) 
and when considered in the context of £471 initial advice fee he paid Profile, it was 
not a cost effective switch as he was told it was.
The fund recommended for the SIPP had a lower FE fund rating than that held in the 
ReAssure Pension. 
Profile disagrees with this outcome. 
It does not accept criticism about not assessing Mr Ws finances, it says that happened 
because it was instructed to give focused pension review/switch advice to address his 
immediate goal for a potentially better performing pension at lower costs. It says that is what 
it did, that the task did not require an overall financial review and that such a focused 
approach has been accepted, as reasonable, by this service in cases with comparable facts. 
It also argued that an assessment of his overall finances would have had little bearing given 
that no new money was being invested in the switch and given that he had over 30 years to 
retirement, which meant his financial capacity was bound to change over time. 
With regards to the flexibility of benefits, Profile says its recommendation did not turn on this, 
that it was part of the added benefits to Mr W from the recommended switch and SIPP which 
he did not previously have in the ReAssure Pension  the other additional benefits being 
regular monitoring of the investment fund and Profiles ongoing advice service, all at a lower 
cost than he faced in the ReAssure Pension.
Profile also noted that whilst fund ratings were/are not the only measure it would consider in 
investment advice, in 2017 the fund recommended for the SIPP actually had a higher FE 
fund rating than the fund within the ReAssure Pension, and the illustration conducted at the 
time showed that the former had better prospects than the latter.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view, and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of key elements to consider in terms of suitability (or otherwise) of an 
investment recommendation (including a pension related recommendation). They relate to 
properly determining the relevant investors profile at the time of the recommendation 
(mainly, his/her objective(s), Attitude To Risk (ATR), investment experience and 
affordability status (including capacity for loss)) and properly determining a pension and/or 
investment solution that suitably matches the profile. It is also important that the investor is 
put in the position of being able to make an informed decision on the recommendation, so an 
adviser must ensure s/he understands the basis for these determinations and for the 
recommendation.
It is in the above context that the investigator focused on the obvious flaw in Profiles 2017 
advice to Mr W. That being its failure to conduct a full Know-Your-Client (KYC) exercise to 
obtain information about his financial circumstances. 
As he said, obtaining and considering such information was/is a fundamental part of the 
regulatory responsibility upon Profile to ensure its advice was/is suitable. It neither obtained 
nor considered information about Mr Ws financial circumstances. Its reason(s) and 
argument in this respect are as summarised above  essentially, it says it was instructed to 
provide focused pension review/switch advice only, it stuck to this task, in doing so it did not 
need to conduct a KYC exercise on Mr Ws financial circumstances, and there is precedent 
within our past decisions which recognises that such an approach, in this context, is 
reasonable.I have noted Profiles reference to the past decisions from this service that it considers to be 
relevant to the above argument. However, as the investigator explained, each case is 
addressed on its own merit, and the same applies to Mr Ws. Profile says its reference seeks 
to highlight the need for consistency in our decisions, and I understand that, but the primary 
task remains one to address Mr Ws case on its own merit.
There is no dispute that Profiles recommendation reduced product costs for Mr W, but there 
is a distinction to be drawn in this respect and I do so further below. 
I understand and agree with the investigators observations about the part of the 
recommendation that favoured flexibility of benefits from the SIPP. The ReAssure Pension 
already gave Mr W some drawing options and, given his age at the time (and the fact that he 
was around 30 years away from retirement), there was no immediate need to conduct a 
pension switch for this purpose alone. There was no short (or even medium) term value in 
doing so. To its credit, Profile appears to accept this. It has explained that its 
recommendation did not turn on the SIPP having better flexibility of benefits, instead it 
addressed the collection of objectives Mr W had, so its argument is that this was just one of 
the positive points about the SIPP that added value to the recommendation. On balance, I 
consider this a reasonable point.
There is evidence in the fact find documentation and in Profiles suitability letter to Mr W 
confirming that one of his objectives was to have annual reviews of and ongoing advice for 
his pension. I have not seen any indication from the time of advice that this was not the 
case, or that he disagreed with this objective as stated in the suitability letter. 
He was entitled to define his own objectives. I note the point the investigator sought to make 
about whether (or not) a desire for ongoing advice justified the pension switch. However, I 
consider that Profiles point about addressing Mr Ws collection of objectives applies here 
too. Available evidence is that they included maximising returns from his pension 
investments, ongoing advice on his pension investments and lower fees/charges. The 
pension switch was not recommended only because of Profiles ongoing advice service, but 
it was one of the objectives that the recommendation met. 
Further to the above, and with regards to the flexibility of benefits and ongoing advice, I 
recognise that, based on the SIPP product alone, neither component increased costs. If both 
were to be viewed as completely unnecessary and useless to Mr W at the time of advice, the 
facts were that their existence in the SIPP did not hurt him, with regards to ongoing advice 
he had the option of using that service at any time in the future if ever he deemed it useful, 
and both (that is, the flexibility of benefits and Profiles ongoing advice service) came with a 
SIPP that cost him 0.27% less annually than the ReAssure Pension.
Having said the above, I agree with the investigators observation on the costs to Mr W in the 
wider sense, after taking into account the initial advice fee. As he said, this shows that, 
overall, the recommendation was not cost effective for Mr W. This is evident in the distinction 
I mentioned earlier, and that I explain next.
Profiles terms of service confirm that the initial advice fee only applied if a pension switch 
recommendation was agreed and implemented, but no fee would apply if no new pension 
product was arranged. As such, Mr W could have avoided the fee if the pension switch 
recommendation was not made and implemented. Upon consideration of the real and full 
effect of the fee, this is an important point.
Mr Ws ReAssure Pension had a relatively modest transfer value, around £9,500. The £471 
initial advice fee, which was deducted during the switch, therefore amounted to around 5% of the pensions value  and payment of the fee at the outset could be viewed as an 
immediate 5% loss in the pensions value. In this context, the benefit of the 0.27% annual 
savings from the SIPP was essentially wiped out from the start, and for almost 20 years 
thereafter. 
This is not based on a precise calculation. I appreciate that, with growth over the years, it 
could have taken less time to reach total product savings (at the rate of 0.27% per year) that 
met and exceeded the cost of the initial advice fee (or the 5% loss of value in this respect). 
Of course, growth was never guaranteed and the opposite  that is, additional time for the 
total savings to recover the initial advice fee  would have been the case if the SIPPs 
investments were to under-perform over the years. 
I use the above description to broadly illustrate the point that the effect of the product 
savings presented to Mr W was not the same as the notion of making overall savings. The 
isolated product savings were distinct from the overall increase in costs resulting from the 
recommendation. As things were, he would not have seen any benefit, in terms of overall 
savings, for almost 20 years because the initial advice fee significantly eclipsed the product 
savings. With growth or under-performance this period could have been less or more, but 
the point to note is that in real terms the solution that was recommended to him was actually 
more expensive for him (in the short to medium term, and until the total product savings 
exceeded the initial advice fee). 
From the perspective as it was in 2017, and given that Mr W was around 30 years away 
from retirement at the time, it also seems more likely (than not) that during that time he 
would have sought to revise his pension arrangements even further. He clearly looked into 
doing so in 2017, so it is reasonable to assume he could (or would) have done the same 
again at some point in the future (before retirement). Depending on when that happened, 
and on any future changes he made to his pension arrangements, it is possible  if not 
probable  that the same specific SIPP would not be held long enough for him to experience 
anything other than an overall increase in costs (one that, in the end, was never offset by the 
product savings). 
The question that follows is whether (or not) the pension switch was suitable in the 
aforementioned wider, and relevant, cost related circumstances. Overall and on balance, I 
do not consider that it was. In the same context, and on balance, I also do not consider that 
having ongoing advice and flexible retirement benefits justified the switch.
The underlying investment portfolio recommended for the SIPP was broadly comparable to 
that which existed in the ReAssure Pension. Details about both portfolios show that they 
could be viewed as matching a medium/balanced ATR. Judging by the fact he had the 
ReAssure Pensions portfolio before instructing Profile, this appears to be the ATR Mr W had 
prior to Profiles advice, and evidence shows this was the same ATR Profile assessed for 
him. It argues that the illustrations at the time showed better prospects for the SIPP portfolio. 
This is true, however the illustrations in its August 2017 Pension Switch report also show 
that there was no available past performance data for one of the portfolios sub-funds (which 
accounted for almost half of the portfolio). Therefore, this called/calls into question the extent 
to which the portfolios future projections could be relied upon.
I do not consider that the availability of a broadly comparable investment portfolio justified 
the more expensive (overall) pension switch solution. The ongoing advice service also came 
in the context of that solution. There is no evidence to show that ongoing advice was so 
desperately needed by Mr W or so necessary for his pension arrangement that it justified the 
additional expense. The same applies, with arguably greater force, in relation to the notion of 
flexible retirement benefits. They were not needed or necessary at the time and they did not 
justify the additional expense at the time.But for the pension switch recommendation and its implementation, Mr W would have 
avoided an immediate 5% loss in the value of his pension; one that would potentially take 
him around 20 years thereafter to recover, through the product savings and, hopefully (but 
not guaranteed), without underperformance in the SIPP portfolio; and there was nothing in 
the recommendation (including the product savings) which, on balance, justified that 
immediate loss.
For the above reasons, I do not find that Profiles recommendation to Mr W in 2017 was 
suitable. For the same reasons, it ought reasonably to have advised him to retain the 
ReAssure Pension, and I have not seen evidence to show or suggest that he would not have 
followed such advice. Indeed, I consider it more likely (than not) that he would have kept the 
ReAssure Pension if he was advised to do so. He approached Profile for its professional 
advice and he gave no insistent instructions in this respect, so he would probably have 
followed advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
For the reasons given above, I take the view that he would have retained his existing 
pension arrangement, the ReAssure Pension Portfolio (RPP). 
The investigator found the same, and he referred to the use of the RPPs notional value, 
had the switch not happened, as the redress benchmark. I agree. However, I also cannot 
be certain that its notional value will presently be obtainable from the previous provider. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that what I set out below, including provision for an alternative 
benchmark (based on Mr Ws profile at the time of advice) if the RPPs notional value 
cannot be obtained, is fair and reasonable redress.
What must Profile do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Profile must:
Compare the performance of his investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pay the compensation into his pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Profile is unable to pay the total amount into his pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. Had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount, it is not a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so he would not be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. If he would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to him in a clear and simple format.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon 
SIPP/BlackRock 
Aquila 75/25 
Equity and 
Bond Index fundStill exists Notional 
value from 
previous 
provider/RPP
; or 
alternative 
benchmark 
stated below.Date of 
investmentDate of 
settlementNot Applicable
(Compensation 
to be 
calculated to 
date of 
settlement.)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional [Fair] Value
This is the value of Mr Ws investment, based on his medium risk profile, had it remained 
with the previous provider (in the RPP) until the end date. Profile should request that the 
previous provider calculate this value between the start and end dates. 
Any withdrawal from the Aegon SIPP/BlackRock Aquila 75/25 Equity and Bond Index fund 
should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid out 
so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large 
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Profile totals all 
those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead 
of deducting periodically. Any payment into the fund should be added to the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value for the RPP, Profile will 
need to determine a fair value for Mr Ws investment using, instead, this alternative 
benchmark (applying the same adjustments stated above)  the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
Mr W had a medium/balanced ATR.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. I consider that Mr Ws medium/balanced ATR is broadly reflected in this 
benchmark, so it can be used as a fair basis to measure the sort of return he would have received with suitable advice.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000 
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to 
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the 
compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such 
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and 
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such 
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in 
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Ws case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2023, so the applicable compensation limit would be £190,000.
decision and award 
I uphold Mr Ws complaint on the basis stated above. Fair compensation should be 
calculated as I have also stated above. My decision is that Profile must pay him the amount 
produced by that calculation, up to the relevant maximum.
recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than the relevant 
maximum, I recommend that Profile pays Mr W the balance. This recommendation is not 
part of my determination or award. Profile does not have to do what I recommend. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint, and I order Profile Financial 
Solutions Limited to calculate and pay compensation to him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman