DRN-3516541
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim under his
car insurance policy. He wants them to settle his claim.
What happened
Mr C had a car insurance policy with Admiral. On 30 March 2018 he collided with a parked
lorry in a lay-by. Police attended the scene and breathalysed Mr C. He was taken to hospital
and then to a police station where he was breathalysed again. Mr C was charged with drink
driving.
Mr C reported the accident to Admiral on 4 April 2018 and told them hed provided two
breath tests to the police following the accident, one at the accident scene and the second at
the police station. He told them the first reading was 50 micrograms of alcohol per 100
millilitres of breath and the second was 60 micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath.
These readings would have been over the legal limit of 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100
millilitres of breath.
Mr C told Admiral that he was disputing the accuracy of the readings and his claim was
placed on hold by Admiral pending the outcome of the court proceedings. He was advised
that Admiral couldnt deal with his vehicle until the outcome of the proceedings was clear.
And that they could only agree to deal with his claim if he was found not guilty. If the case
was dismissed, then it was likely theyd need more evidence of the reasons behind this.
On 8 August 2018 Mr C called Admiral to advise them hed been to court the previous week
and had been found not guilty. He agreed to send Admiral copies of the paperwork hed
received from the court and his solicitors.
On 13 August 2018 Admiral received proof from Mr C that the case against him had been
dismissed, as no evidence was offered by the police. As the case had been dismissed
Admiral requested a copy of the police report to enable them to consider the matter further.
Mr C was advised of this.
Mr C spoke to Admiral again on 17 August 2018 as he wasnt happy they wouldnt deal
with his claim when the police hadnt offered any evidence. He told them he wasnt given a
printout from the station to say what his reading was. And the police only had copies of the
readings which the court wouldnt accept. He was told Admiral needed to wait for the police
report.
On 13 September 2018 Mr Cs solicitors wrote to Admiral about his claim. They referred to
 the drink and drugs clause in his policy and said hed not been found to be over the legal
limit for alcohol or drugs. In fact, quite the opposite, he been acquitted due to lack of reliable
and admissible evidence to support the allegation. They also say that he was never charged
with driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise and there
was no evidence to suggest he was driving whilst unfit.
The solicitors letter refers to an experts report they obtained which suggests that, based on
what Mr C said hed actually drunk, his breath alcohol reading should have been 0-17 ug
per 100 millilitres of breath at the time he gave his reading. And the most likely reading
would have been 0/100 millilitres.
The solicitors go on to say that this report wasnt disputed, no evidence was disclosed by the
prosecution to support the evidential reading and this, combined with other issues with the
lawfulness of the arrest and detention, led to the prosecution offering no evidence in the
case.
Admiral received the police report at the end of October 2018. This confirmed that on 30
March 2018 Mr C collided with the rear of a lorry which was parked in a lay-by. The report
has a tick in a box saying that Mr C gave a positive breath test. It describes the damage to
Mr Cs vehicle as severe. The roof and nearside were ripped off and the chassis twisted.
There was also considerable damage to the lorry Mr C hit. And its recorded that the case
against Mr C was dismissed as no evidence was offered by the prosecution.
Admiral wrote to Mr C on 12 November 2018 advising him that they were repudiating his
claim as hed been in breach of his policy terms when the accident happened.
Admiral next contacted Mr C in October 2019 about recovering the sums theyd paid in
respect of the lorry hed collided with. Mr C made it clear to Admiral that he didnt accept
their repudiation of his claim. Mr C wrote to Admiral about his claim on 11 November 2019. It
doesnt appear that Admiral replied to his letter.
Mr C next contacted Admiral about his claim in June 2020. Admiral wrote to him on 18 June
2020. This letter refers to a strict drink and driving policy which meant he wouldnt be
covered if hed even had one sip of alcohol before driving. Mr C called Admiral on 23 June
2020 after receiving this letter and said that he couldnt find this in the terms and conditions
of his policy. He told Admiral that he didnt understand why theyd repudiated his claim, as
there was no evidence that hed been over the drink driving limit. So he wanted to know what
policy condition hed breached and what evidence Admiral had. Admiral agreed to review the
case and contact him.
Mr C spoke to Admiral again on 26 June 2020 when they agreed to raise a complaint and
issue a final response letter.
Admiral responded to Mr Cs complaint on 24 July 2020. There were six points to Mr Cs
complaint. Which were: -
1. He was unhappy with their decision to repudiate his claim, as he was acquitted at
    court and the police didnt offer any evidence against him.
2. He was upset at having to speak to different agents each time he called who were
    unfamiliar with his case.
3. The allegations that he was unfit to drive through alcohol and over the prescribed
                limit was unfounded, as there was no evidence to support this.
4. He was told the claim was on hold as they were awaiting the results of his breath
                test. But the police report only included an alleged reading from the breath test,
                which the police had told his solicitor was an allegation, not an actual reading.
5. Admiral had changed their position about the terms and conditions of his policy
initially saying they referred to driving over the prescribed limit, driving while unfit         
to do so due to alcohol and failing to provide a sample. To saying hed breached 
the terms and conditions by driving after having a sip of alcohol. He disputes that 
hed breached any of the conditions in his policy.
6. He was disappointed they hadnt responded to his solicitor, whod tried to        
correspond on his behalf.In respect of point one Admiral said theyd reviewed their decision to repudiate Mr Cs claim
and considered this to be correct. And they didnt need a prosecution for driving under the
influence to say that the policy terms and conditions had been breached. They said when Mr
C reported the accident, hed told them his breath test results were 50mg at the roadside 
and 60mg at the station. Although the police report doesnt provide a reading, it does confirm 
that there was a positive breathalyser test. And the police had told them theyd only progress 
to a hearing if the readings taken were over the legal limit. 
And his solicitors had confirmed that the charge against him was that hed driven his car
after consuming so much alcohol that the proportion in his breath was 60 mg in 100 millilitres
of breath.
So this complaint point wasnt upheld.
Point two wasnt upheld as Admiral said they were unable to guarantee speaking to the
same agent on every call.
Point three wasnt upheld as Admiral said the police report recorded a positive breath test,
even though it doesnt give a reading. And when Mr C reported the accident to them, he told
them hed given readings of 50mg and 60mg. Admiral also said that they didnt need a
prosecution as evidence of breach of their policy terms and conditions. They were satisfied
that the information they obtained confirmed that he was over the legal limit at the time of the
accident.
Point four wasnt upheld as Admiral said that once they were notified that the case was
dismissed, they placed it on hold until they received the police report. Mr C had said the
police told his solicitors that the level recorded was an estimate, not a reading. Admiral said
they had no evidence of this discussion, and the report contained a positive result. Mr C was
arrested and charged, and the charge was consistent with the information hed provided
when reporting the claim. So, they had enough information to repudiate his claim and they
wouldnt change that decision.
Admiral did uphold point five of Mr Cs complaint. As they accepted that their emails of 18
and 26 June 2020, should have been worded differently. They said their underwriting
department had repudiated the claim based on him being over the prescribed limit for
alcohol. Which is what the emails should have reflected. They apologised for the error but
said it didnt alter the decision to repudiate his claim.
Point six wasnt upheld. Admiral said they couldnt initially respond to correspondence from
Mr Cs solicitors, as they didnt have his permission to do so. Once they received his consent
Admiral said they replied to any correspondence theyd received. But theyd not heard from
his solicitors since 12 November 2018 when the underwriting department spoke to them to
confirm they were repudiating the claim. 
Mr C was unhappy with Admirals response to his complaint and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and said Admiral didnt need him to be prosecuted for
driving under the influence to determine that hed breached the terms and conditions of his 
policy. She said our role wasnt to determine whether hed been driving over the limit, or not.
It was to consider whether Admiral had acted fairly by relying on the available information to
reject his claim.
She said that Mr C had told Admiral that his breath test readings were 50mg at the roadside
and 60mg at the police station. His policy says that if an accident happens when hes found
to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or drugs no cover is provided. And because of thisAdmiral declined his claim as evidence from their investigation suggests he was over the
limit.
She said Mr C was acquitted by the court as no breath test readings were provided by the
police, so he says theres no evidence he was over the limit. But when he spoke to Admiral
on 9 April 2018, he was told that even if the case was dismissed, theyd need further
evidence about the reason it was dismissed, and this didnt mean he wasnt over the limit.
And as the case was dismissed due to lack of evidence, our investigator said Admiral had
looked at other evidence, such as his initial call to them, his solicitors letter confirming the
police reading was 60mg, and confirmation from the police that hed given a positive breath
test. She didnt accept that the case being dismissed meant Mr C hadnt been over the limit,
so she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong and had applied the terms and
conditions of his policy fairly. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said that the case against him was
dismissed because the police failed to provide any evidence to the court, theres no record of
the readings the police took in the police report and they just ticked a box on the report
saying hed given a positive reading. And he says she didnt address that Admiral had tried
to say he was driving under the influence which isnt in his policy. He also suggested that
our service isnt impartial as were funded by businesses.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her opinion. She agreed theyd
been some confusion around the wording of Mr Cs policy but said Admiral had
acknowledged this and apologised to him. And she said we look at each case based on the
evidence to consider whats fair and reasonable.
Mr C responded to this saying: -
Admiral had relied on police fabricated evidence.
Having said its not our role to decide whether he was driving over the limit, our
investigator said, I think its more likely you were over the limit. Which he says
doesnt seem fair and impartial.
His solicitors didnt confirm the police reading was 60mg. They simply shared the
information given on the court summons he received. This information is also in their 
letter of 13 September 2018. He asks whether she read this and the report his expert 
prepared for the court and what it says about his reading.
He doesnt accept that Admiral have done nothing wrong.
The case then came to me and I issued my provisional decision on 16 March 2022. In it I 
said: -
Mr Cs policy contains a drink and drugs clause and the relevant part of this is: -
If an accident happens whilst you are driving your vehicle and youre
found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting
the obligation as required by the Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, we will recover
from you, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or under a judgment,
of any claim arising from the accident.
Despite the outcome of the criminal proceedings Admiral have maintained their decision todecline Mr Cs claim. This has had significant financial consequences for him as he hasnt
been paid out for his car and Admiral are seeking to recover their outlay, in relation to the
lorry he collided with, from him. And I understand Mr Cs frustration about the time it took
Admiral to reach their decision.
According to the police report the criminal case against Mr C was dismissed on the basis
that no evidence was offered by the prosecution. The letter Mr Cs solicitors to Admiral dated
13 September 2018 refers to concerns about the prosecution evidence. But Ive only seen
whats set out in the solicitors letter about this.
Ive listened to the calls Mr C made to Admiral about their decision to repudiate his claim, in
all of these he refers to being acquitted, and his solicitors also say this in their letter of 13
September 2018. There may well have been discussions between Mr Cs solicitors and the
prosecution about evidence prior to the court date, but all Ive seen is confirmation that the
case was dismissed as no evidence was offered. This is different to being acquitted which
suggests evidence was heard by the court and a not guilty verdict was given, based on that
evidence.
Admiral told Mr C when he spoke to him on 6 April 2018 that if he was found not guilty, or
acquitted, theyd look to deal with his claim. In a further conversation on 9 April 2018 they
told him that if the case against him was dismissed theyd need to review the reason for the
dismissal. He was also told that they didnt need a conviction to decline the claim, as cases
could be dismissed for legal technicalities.
As the case against Mr C was dismissed, I think Admiral were entitled to seek further
evidence to look into the reasons for the dismissal. So I think it was reasonable for them to
request a copy of the police report to see what further information it provided
.
The experts report the solicitors sent Admiral with their letter of 13 September 2018 says
that based on what Mr C says hed had to drink two cans of skol super lager 8% he would 
have expected his breath alcohol reading should have been 0-17 ug per 100 millilitres of
breath at the time he gave his reading. And the most likely reading would have been 0 ug.
The report goes on to suggest that the breathalyser used to test Mr C may have been faulty,
and the expert wanted to carry out tests to check this.
What Mr C had drunk prior to the accident isnt referred to in any other evidence Ive seen.
When he reported the accident to Admiral on 4 April 2018 Mr C told them hed given two
positive breath readings. He doesnt make any reference to what hed had to drink, although
he does say that he was surprised by the readings.
So, there is evidence from Mr C himself that he provided two positive breath tests on the day
of the accident. The police report confirms he provided a positive breath test. And he was
charged because of the test results he provided.
Mr C has referred in correspondence to the police fabricating evidence and that Admiral
based their decision to decline his claim on such evidence. I havent seen anything that
persuades me this is correct. I accept that the prosecution didnt produce any evidence to
the court so the case against Mr C was dismissed. But this doesnt mean there wasnt
evidence at the time he was charged.
Theres no evidence to support what Mr C told the expert about what hed drunk prior to the
accident. And given what he told Admiral about his breath test results, shortly after the
accident, I can understand why Admiral didnt change their decision about Mr Cs claim after
considering the report.Admiral told Mr C that they were repudiating his claim in November 2018 shortly after they
received the police report. Theyd received the report in October 2018, so I dont think this
was an unreasonable time to review the report and make a decision.
Mr C spoke to Admiral on three occasions in June 2020 about his claim. Ive listened to
those calls and considered the correspondence Admiral sent to Mr C. Their letter of 18 June
2020 refers to a strict drink driving policy. During the calls Mr C questioned Admiral about
this as he said he couldnt find any reference to this in his policy. In their response to his
complaint Admiral acknowledged that their letter should have been worded differently and
apologised. And I think this is enough.
My role is to consider whether Admirals decision to repudiate Mr Cs claim was fair and
reasonable based on the evidence. Even though the case against Mr C was dismissed I
think Admiral were entitled to take the view that on the balance of probabilities he was found
to be over the prescribed limit when the accident occurred. He gave details of the readings
hed given to Admiral a couple of days after the accident and the police report confirms he
provided a positive test result.
So taking everything into account I think Admiral fairly declined Mr Cs claim and I wont be
asking them to do anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has told us that he doesnt accept my provisional decision.
Hes said the following: -
He believes that Ive relied on false allegations that he was over the legal limit for alcohol in 
his breath at the time of the accident. When he says theres no evidence of the readings that 
he provided.
He says he was acquitted of the charges against him as no evidence was offered. So he 
says he was found not guilty and Admiral should deal with his claim. And its wrong for me to 
say that as the case was dismissed Admiral were entitled to look further into this, rather than 
simply dealing with his claim. 
During his conversations with Admiral about his claim he was told many times that they 
needed evidence of the breath samples he provided to the police. There is no such 
evidence, but Admiral still declined his claim.
When his claim was repudiated Admiral wrongly referred to him being under the influence of 
alcohol but this doesnt appear in his policy terms and conditions.
He believes the police have tampered with their report and this constitutes misconduct and a 
breach of the GDPR rules and regulations. He says Admiral sourced the police report and 
there were data information issues regarding missing evidential sample readings. He wants 
Admiral to notify the Information Commissioners Office of a personal data breach, let him 
know how they intend to address this, and follow up with the police where his personal data 
has gone.
He doesnt believe Ive considered his complaint fairly as hes found other decisions where 
complaints about similar cases have been upheld.
He put forward offers to Admiral to settle his claim on many occasions which theyve 
ignored.Admiral upheld part of his complaint as they agreed that in correspondence they shouldnt 
have referred to driving under the influence and you cannot even have a sip of alcohol and 
drive your vehicle. He believes that Admiral tried to mislead him by altering the policy terms 
and conditions to convince him he had breached these. He wants to know where these 
terms appear in his policy. And he says our investigator refers to driving under the influence 
in her opinion, which I referred to in my provisional decision.
Admiral contacted him after my provisional decision was issued, saying a final decision had 
been issued and requesting payment from him in respect of the damages theyd paid to 
repair the other vehicle. He regards this as outrageous and serious misconduct. 
He says that he didnt breach the terms and conditions of his policy. 
He doesnt believe its fair that Ive said it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that on the 
balance of probabilities he was over the prescribed limit at the time of the accident. He refers 
to other decisions issued by the service and the experts report his solicitors obtained.
He believes I should consider the joint settlement and cross reference my decision to how 
past complaints have been dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that Ive relied on false allegations in my provisional decision. Ive set out what 
Mr C told Admiral when he first reported the accident. And said that the police report 
confirmed that he provided a positive breath sample. Ive acknowledged that the police didnt 
provide any evidence to the court, but this doesnt change what Mr C initially told Admiral. 
And I havent seen anything to support Mr Cs view that the police fabricated evidence.
I set out the relevant terms and conditions in Mr Cs policy in my provisional decision. These 
mean that if Admiral think Mr C was found to be over the prescribed limit for
alcohol at the time of the accident, theyre entitled to decline his claim. It also means that
Admiral can recover its outlay from Mr C where its obliged to pay for third party
costs associated with the accident.
Mr C argues that Admiral cant fairly say he was over the prescribed limit as the criminal
case against him for drink driving was dismissed by a criminal court. Although I understand
Mr Cs argument, the terms and conditions dont state he needs to be found guilty by a 
criminal court or convicted to be found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol. 
While I acknowledge that Admiral told Mr C they needed evidence of the breath samples he 
provided, and these havent been provided; theres evidence from what he told Admiral when 
he reported the accident of what his breathalyser readings were. He told them that he gave a 
breathalyser test was around 50 mg at the accident scene and 60mg at the police station. 
Mr C argues that he was acquitted by the court, so he was found not guilty and Admiral 
should deal with his claim. And its wrong that Ive said the case was dismissed so Admiral 
were entitled to look into the reason for the dismissal. 
His policy doesnt require a criminal conviction for a claim to be declined. And I think the 
decision Admiral made to decline the claim was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.I accept the term under the influence of alcohol doesnt appear in Mr Cs policy. Admiral 
have acknowledged this and upheld Mr Cs complaint about how their correspondence was 
written. But I dont think this was said to mislead Mr C. It was a mistake which Admiral have 
apologised for.
Im not able to comment on Mr Cs allegation that the police tampered with their report. And 
this isnt something Id expect Admiral to take any action on. If Mr C believes theres been a 
breach of his personal data, this is something for him to take up with the police or the 
Information Commissioners Office.
I accept that Mr C approached Admiral with proposals to compromise his claim. While I think 
it would have been better if Admiral had acknowledged these, and I understand why Mr C 
was keen to resolve his claim, I dont think this affects my decision in the case. Just because 
one party makes an offer, this doesnt mean the other party has to accept it.
When Mr C contacted us to advise us that hed heard from Admiral after my provisional 
decision was issued, saying that wed issued a final decision, we immediately contacted 
them reminding them it was a provisional decision. I understand why Mr C was upset by this, 
but it was a mistake rather than serious misconduct. 
Every decision that our service issues is decided on the individual facts of the case. In   
reaching my decision in this case Ive considered the available evidence to decide whats fair 
and reasonable. And any decisions about similar complaints will have been reached on the 
individual facts of those cases.
Mr C has also referred to the experts report obtained by his solicitors. I considered this 
report and commented on it in my provisional decision. And I dont have anything to add to 
those comments.
Having considered Mr Cs further comments my opinion remains that on the balance of 
probabilities it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that he was over the limit when the 
accident occurred. And to decline his claim. So, I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Cs complaint about Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman