DRN-3838529
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mrs D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2018, Mrs D purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Mrs D financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In May 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ds behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that S had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs D to 
enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Ikano rejected the claim. The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. We notified Ikano of the complaint. Ikano felt it had handled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable way. One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
The CMC didnt agree with this. It said that:
Mrs D was told the system was self-funding. Her attention was not drawn to any 
figures that contradicted this. That she couldve discovered this by looking at the 
quote is no defence where a misrepresentation has been made. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mrs D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs D could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs D and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and quote.
The quote set out information about the system, including its cost and benefits. I think it 
wouldve formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant, alongside 
Mrs Ds recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements 
of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Quote
The quote showed the first-year benefits of the system would be between £232.91 and 
£323.00, just above where it showed the annual loan repayments amounted to £1,060.98:
I think this clearly shows the benefits of the system in the first year would not cover the loan 
repayments. So, the system would not immediately be self-funding. Give how clearly this is 
shown in the quote, I do not think the salesperson is likely to have said the system would be 
self-funding from the start. 
The quote also compared the cost and benefits of the loan over 20 years, which is the 
duration of the FIT payments Mrs D would receive. This showed that, depending on how 
much of the generated electricity she used, her total repayments would exceed the likely 
benefit over 20 years by between £3,667.89 and £3,746.73. I think it is unlikely that the 
salesperson wouldve said the system would be self-funding over 20 years, while providing a 
quote that clearly showed this was not the case. 
I understand there was a contract variation signed after the initial sales meeting, since the 
system installed was slightly different than in the quote. While the expected annual 
generation and benefits were slightly higher, updated estimated benefit information was 
provided  and, similar to above, this did not show the system would be self-funding. So, I 
think it is unlikely that Mrs D wouldve been told the changes would make the system self-
funding. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mrs D to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman