DRN-4038732
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that Brown Shipley & Co Limited delayed the transfer of funds 
from Mrs Rs General Investment Account (GIA) to Mr Rs individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and this caused Mr R a financial loss resulting in the loss of some of his 2019/20 ISA 
allowance. 
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R had separate GIAs with a company I will call Company A. Brown Shipley 
recommended Mr R maximise his ISA allowance for 2019/20, but Mr R didnt have sufficient 
funds in his GIA to fund an ISA. Brown Shipley recommended a transfer of £20,000 from Mrs 
Rs GIA to Mr Rs GIA so that Mr R could move this to an ISA in his name. Brown Shipley 
received a signed transfer form to switch 38,356 of units from Mrs Rs GIA to Mr Rs GIA. 
The transfer competed on 18 March. Brown Shipley then sold the units held in Mr Rs GIA to 
cash and re-purchased units in the same fund within Mr Rs ISA on 26 March, which was the 
settlement date of the sale.
Mr R and Mrs R complained to Brown Shipley that the switch of the funds from Mrs Rs GIA 
account to Mr Rs GIA account took too long, and that selling the units in Mr Rs GIA to cash 
and re-investing several days later resulted in his 2019/20 ISA being underfunded and less 
units being re-purchased. Brown Shipley said it had followed the processes Company A 
provided but accepted that it had failed to ensure Mr R had used his full 2019/20 ISA 
allowance. Brown Shipley offered Mr R £250 to cover the cost of any tax that may fall due on 
the amount it was unable to wrap within his ISA.
Mr R and Mrs R brought their complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that Brown Shipley had acted 
reasonably when dealing with the matter of the transfers, and that although it had missed the 
opportunity to assist Mr R in fully utilising his 2019/20 ISA allowance, the offer of £250 made 
by Brown Shipley in these circumstances of this case was a fair and reasonable one.
Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides 
the complaint. As I reached a significantly different outcome to the Investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision for both parties to consider. My provisional decision said I intended to 
say that it was unreasonable for Brown Shipley to sell the units in Mr Rs GIA to cash and 
then to re-purchase units in the same fund several days later when Company A was able to 
re-register them into Mr Rs ISA in two working days.
To put things right, I thought Brown Shipley should work out how many units could have 
been purchased in Mr Rs ISA with £17,524.86 if the re-registration of units had completed 
within two working days. If Mr R could have purchased fewer than 34,910.09 units on this 
date, no further redress is due. If Mr R could have purchased more units than 34,910.09 on 
this date, Brown Shipley & Co Limited should pay Mr R the current value (on the date of 
settlement) of those units.
Any future current and future tax position of this amount had, in my opinion, already been 
reasonably addressed in the calculation Brown Shipley & Co Limited used when it 
considered its failure to ensure Mr R utilised his ISA allowance in the tax year 2019/20. So, 
my provisional decision was that Brown Shipley & Co Limited dont need to do anything else 
in this regard. 
Mr R and Mrs R provided some further comments for me to consider, and I will address 
these in my final decision. Brown Shipley said it had no further comments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfer from Mrs Rs GIA to Mr Rs GIA
Brown Shipleys letter of 4 March said a GIA to ISA transfer with Company A usually takes a 
couple of working days - and that as the value of the investment would be subject to market 
changes there would be a potential for some capital loss. Mr R and Mrs R signed the asset 
transfer form on 10 March and Brown Shipley received it on 12 March. It was sent by 
recorded delivery to Company A the same day. The signed instruction form didnt include an 
amount to be transferred, instead it confirmed Mr R and Mrs Rs instruction was to transfer 
38,356 units plus £400 cash to Mr Rs GIA. It seems likely to me that the intention was that 
the number of units would be enough to maximise Mr Rs ISA allowance, but the unit price 
had fallen. Although only £17,524.86 was credited to Mr Rs GIA when the re-registration of 
the units took place, Im satisfied Brown Shipleys letter of 4 March made Mr R and Mrs R 
aware that the value of the transfer could be affected by market movements.
Mr R and Mrs R had asked Brown Shipley if the transfer form could be scanned and sent to 
them, but Brown Shipley said it needed an instruction from them as the transfer was from 
one GIA to another GIA. Ive looked at the asset transfer forms provided by Mr R and Mrs R 
and Brown Shipley. The one Brown Shipley used appears to have been a current form and 
said Brown Shipley required an instruction from Mr R and Mrs R and that Brown Shipley also 
needed to sign the declaration. If Brown Shipley hadnt been able to provide an authority, 
had Company A asked for it, this may have caused a delay. Therefore, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Brown Shipley told Mr R and Mrs R it needed a signed transfer form 
before it could send it to Company A. Mr R and Mrs R believe that Brown Shipley could have 
emailed the asset transfer form to Company A, but I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Brown Shipley to use its discretion to send it by guaranteed next day delivery post, as it says 
it had previously experienced some delays with Company A dealing with emails around this 
time of the year.
Mr R and Mrs R say that the 4 March letter Brown Shipley sent them said a GIA to ISA 
transfer with Company A would usually take a couple of working days to complete. However, 
what is clear here is that this was a two-stage process and the transfer from Mrs Rs GIA to 
Mr Rs GIA needed to be completed first - it wasnt a transfer of a GIA to an ISA. Company A 
has confirmed to our Investigator that a transfer from one GIA to another GIA takes between 
5-7 working days, and also that it wasnt possible to transfer funds from a GIA in Mrs Rs 
name directly to an ISA in the name of Mr R.
The letter of 4 March could have provided a more detailed explanation of the time it could 
take to complete the transaction, but I consider its unreasonable for me to conclude Brown 
Shipley said the whole process would only take two days to complete. So, Ive decided that 
Brown Shipley dealt with this part of the transaction reasonably and that it was the reduction 
in the unit price at this time that meant only £17,524.86 was realised when the switch from 
Mrs Rs GIA to Mr Rs GIA completed.Selling Mr Rs GIA units and re-purchasing them within his ISA
Theres no dispute that Company A re-registered the units from Mrs Rs GIA to Mr Rs GIA 
and that Brown Shipley then sold the units to cash. However, Mr R and Mrs R complaint is 
that units within Mr Rs GIA should have been re-registered into his ISA using what is often 
referred to as a Bed and ISA transaction. Mr R and Mrs R have provided evidence that a 
similar re-registration of units from Mrs Rs GIA to her ISA with Company A was made in two 
days the following tax-year. This is further supported by Brown Shipleys letter of 4 March 
that also suggested a GIA to ISA re-registration should take a couple of working days.
I asked Brown Shipley if it attempted to clarify the position at the time with Company A, but it 
hasnt been able to provide anything to show that it did. So, Ive considered whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Brown Shipley to sell units in Mr Rs GIA and then re-purchase them 
at the settlement date. This is the crux of the complaint as Mr R received less units in his ISA 
than he had in his GIA prior to the re-registration.
Brown Shipley says that it wasnt able to complete the switch of all the units into Mr Rs ISA 
on-line because Company As on-line form didnt allow them to switch all of the units - it only 
allowed it to put a cash value in, and this meant it had to sell the fund to cash first. That may 
be the case, but Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr R was made aware of this at the time.
Company A says it can take up to 2 working days for a re-registration of a GIA to an ISA if 
its just to move money, including if its staying in the same funds, but if funds are being sold 
or purchased then it takes longer. This seems to reflect what happened the following tax-
year when Mrs R re-registered units within a specific fund held in her GIA to her ISA. This 
resulted in fewer units being invested in the same fund but was completed in two working 
days without the units having to be sold to cash first. Company A says Brown Shipley first 
instructed a sale of the units in Mr Rs GIA to cash and then, when the sale settled, it 
received a further instruction from Brown Shipley to re-purchase units in the same fund 
within Mr Rs ISA. Im persuaded this is what happened here.
Ive decided that the selling of the units in Mr Rs GIA to cash, and then back into the same 
fund, was the material cause of Mr R having less units within the ISA than he thought he 
should have. Brown Shipley hasnt provided any evidence that persuades me it made any 
reasonable enquiries of Company A regarding this re-registration. Regardless of the 
comments from Brown Shipley that it was unable to enter the transfer of units on-line, Ive 
decided that its more likely than not the units could have been switched from the GIA to the 
ISA more quickly without the need to sell to cash if Brown Shipley had acted reasonably and 
asked Company A to do this. Selling units to cash exposed Mr R to volatile market 
conditions for longer than necessary. I would have expected Brown Shipley to consider this, 
and Im satisfied the action taken by Brown Shipley delayed the re-registration of the GIA 
units into Mr Rs ISA and caused Mr R to receive fewer units into his ISA. 
I note that Mr R has since transferred his GIA to another provider.
Shortfall in contribution to Mr Rs 2019/20 ISA
Brown Shipley accepts that it failed to tell Mr R that his 2019/20 ISA allowance hadnt been 
fully utilised, so I considered whether the remedy offered by Brown Shipley was reasonable.
I would expect Brown Shipley to consider Mr Rs current and likely future tax position, his 
existing assets, along with the size of the deficit, his age and likely duration the ISA would be 
held. I would also expect Brown Shipley to take into account any growth and income from 
the ISA and project it forward to establish whether Mr R is ever likely to have to pay tax on 
those monies. Brown Shipley has calculated its unlikely there will be a financial detriment to Mr R of failing to place the £2,475 shortfall into the ISA if he remains a basic rate taxpayer. 
However, as Mr R is expecting increased earnings from his self-employment Brown Shipley 
offered Mr R a payment of £250 to cover the cost of any tax that may fall due on the slice of 
monies that it was unable to wrap within his 2019/20 ISA. Taking into account the 
circumstances of this case, Ive decided this is a fair and reasonable remedy offer. 
Mr R and Mrs R have referred me to the delay in Brown Shipley responding to their 
complaint. Unfortunately, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So, whilst I 
acknowledge this may have been frustrating, I cant make a decision or comment on this 
aspect of the complaint. I would also like to clarify that its not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to penalise a business if it gets things wrong  thats normally a matter 
for its regulator, which in this case is the Financial Conduct Authority. Im satisfied that my 
final decision puts Mr R and Mrs R back into the position they would likely have been in if 
Brown Shipley had re-registered Mr Rs GIA into an ISA within two working days.
Putting things right
To put things right, Ive decided that:
Brown Shipley should work out how many units Mr R could have purchased in his 
ISA with £17,524.86 if the re-registration of units had completed within two working 
days. If Mr R could have purchased fewer than 34,910.09 units, no further redress is 
due. However, If Mr R could have purchased more units than 34,910.09, then Brown 
Shipley should pay Mr R the current value of the difference in units. I should make it 
clear that the settlement date I referred to in my provisional decision is the date on 
which Brown Shipley pay this remedy to Mr R, if a remedy is required.
Brown Shipleys offer to pay Mr R the sum of £250 to reflect the shortfall it caused in 
his 2019/20 ISA is a fair and reasonable one in all of the circumstances, and Brown 
Shipley should pay this amount to Mr R.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Rs and Mrs Rs complaint and in order to put matters right 
Brown Shipley & Co Limited should pay Mr R the remedy Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman