DRN-3932090
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) failed to deal properly with her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
regarding a timeshare purchase. 
What happened
In 2012 Mrs D along with her husband purchased a timeshare product from a company I will 
call S. It cost £30,000 and was funded by a loan from BPF. The loan was in Mrs Ds name 
and I will refer to her as the purchaser to keep things simple. In May 2019 S went into 
liquidation. The loan was repaid in May 2021. Mrs D contacted BPF and the matter was 
brought to this service. Mrs D was subsequently represented by a claims management 
company and later by a firm of solicitors.
It would appear that the original complaint was concerning a breach of contract due to the 
liquidation of S. However, subsequently the solicitors raised questions about a breach of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by S. 
BPF sought documentary evidence in support of the claim and in due course our investigator 
concluded that sufficient evidence had been provided. BPF then agreed and made an offer 
to settle the matter. It offered a total of £25,193.46. This was calculated on the basis that the 
37 year membership had been ended after 6 years and five months. And so it agreed to 
refund 30 years and 7 months of the loan of £30,000 plus interest at 8% simple on payments 
made since the date of liquidation.
The solicitor suggested that the interest charged also be included which would increase the 
sum due by some £14,500. BPF didnt agree and our investigator explained that the offer 
had been assessed on the basis of redressing a breach (rather than rescission) of a contract 
- which is the fundamental distinction to note here. This mean the interest accrues from 
when the contract was breached (i.e. the point of liquidation), rather than when the 
membership began.
The solicitor asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman and said Mrs D was 
entitled to proportionate compensation for the loss of use of the capital paid which would 
cover the interest paid as well.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed by all parties that Mrs D is entitled to a refund in respect of the period when she 
was no longer able to use the accommodation offered in the agreement. This arises from 
s.75 CCA. 
S. 75 of the CCA says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s.12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, 
who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mrs D paid for goods or services using certain 
types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible.
The contract we have to consider is that with S for which Mrs D paid £30,000. It is not the 
finance agreement. That means that Mrs D is entitled to a refund of that proportion of the 
cost of the contract covering the period after S went into liquidation and was unable to offer 
the facilities promised in the agreement. This is what BPF has agreed to cover in its 
responsibilities under s. 75.
The interest paid by Mrs D to BPF is not part of the disputed contract with S. Mrs D has, 
under s.75, a like claim against BPF as she would against S and so the interest paid to BPF 
does not form part of the redress. 
This service does award interest to cover loss of use of money and this would cover the 
period after S went into liquidation. In essence the contract is deemed to have ended at that 
point and so a refund was due for the remaining 30 years and 7 months. So in effect this 
sum is being returned by dint of the redress with interest on the refund of expired unused 
years from the date of breach until the date of settlement at 8% simple is payable as BPF 
has acknowledged. 
In short I consider BPFs offer to be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
BF should refund that part of the cost of the timeshare relating to the period after liquidation 
of S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to refund 30 years and 7 months worth of the 
contract price as set out in its calculations. It should also pay annual simple interest at 8% on 
the refund of expired unused years from the date of breach until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
If BPF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman