DRN-3285326
The complaint
Ms V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refused to increase the 
credit limit of her credit card. Ms V also complains that Barclaycard closed her credit card 
and sold the debt whilst her complaint was ongoing. 
What happened
Ms V opened a Barclaycard in March 2019. Barclaycard says it approved an immediate 
credit limit of £200.
Ms V asked Barclaycard to increase her credit limit in August 2020 and again at the 
beginning of 2021. On both occasions, Barclaycard declined Ms Vs request.  
Ms V went on to complain and said the low credit limit impacted her credit score. Ms V has 
told us she spent many hours on the phone trying to deal with Barclaycard and her 
complaint. Barclaycard responded to Ms Vs complaint on 1 March 2021 but didnt agree it 
had made any mistakes with her credit limit. Barclaycard apologised that Ms V wasnt 
contacted as agreed and paid her £25. 
Ms V continued to correspond with Barclaycard concerning her complaint and credit limit. On 
24 March 2021 Barclaycard wrote to Ms V again and said it had already responded to her 
complaint. Barclaycard reiterated that Ms V could refer her complaint to this service if she 
remained dissatisfied. 
Ms V has told us that she stopped making payments as the issues she raised with 
Barclaycard remained unresolved. Ms V has explained she feels Barclaycards decision to 
continue with its collections process and close her credit card was unfair. As a result, Ms V 
missed payments and a default has been recorded on her credit file. The debt has also been 
sold to a third party. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Vs complaint but didnt agree Barclaycard had 
treated her unfairly. Ms V asked to appeal and explained she had spent many hours 
pursuing her complaint with Barclaycard and that she felt its decision to close her account 
during the dispute was unfair. As Ms V asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Barclaycard considered credit limit increases from Ms V on two occasions and 
each time declined to proceed. Barclaycard has confirmed Ms Vs requests were subject to 
its normal underwriting criteria and correctly declined. Barclaycard has provided supporting 
information from its systems and Im satisfied the credit limit increases were correctly 
declined in line with its lending criteria. Whilst I note Ms V wants a specific reason explaining 
why the credit limit increases werent approved, Barclaycard has explained its lending 
criteria is commercially sensitive and confidential. Ive looked at the factors Barclaycard says 
it takes into account and Im satisfied its lending criteria was fairly applied. 
Ms V says whilst dispute remained unresolved she withheld payments to Barclaycard. Whilst 
I understand Ms V felt the issue was unresolved, Barclaycard explained she could refer the 
matter to us to consider if she remained dissatisfied. Ive looked at the credit cards terms 
and they say the card holder will repay the sums borrowed and make monthly payments. 
The terms also say card holders can refer complaints about its service to us if theyre 
unhappy with the outcome. The terms dont say card holders can withhold payment until a 
complaint is resolved to their satisfaction or that Barclaycard wont attempt to collect 
payments. 
Ive looked at Ms Vs account statements and can see the sums she owed related to 
spending on the account. I appreciate Ms V had an ongoing complaint but given she 
borrowed the funds owed I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to request repayment and 
proceed with its collections activity to recover the debt. Barclaycard has provided evidence 
to show it sent Ms V various letters its required to issue before closing an account. So Im 
satisfied Ms V wouldve been aware that Barclaycard was continuing to pursue her for the 
outstanding debt. 
The credit cards terms also say Barclaycard can reassign the debt to another business  
which is whats occurred in this case. As Barclaycard has acted in line with the terms, 
following its decision to close the credit card, I havent bene persuaded its treated Ms V 
unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms V but I havent been persuaded Barclaycard acted unfairly by 
continuing to request repayment and ultimately closing and selling the credit card. 
Ms V has told us she spent many hours trying to get through to Barclaycard and deal with 
her complaint. I dont doubt what Ms V has told us. But I think its fair to note that 
Barclaycard has explained its call wait times and service was impacted by the pandemic 
during this time. I understand the delays were frustrating and can see Barclaycard paid Ms V 
£25 to apologise. Im satisfied thats a fair way to deal with this part of Ms Vs complaint. As 
Im satisfied Barclaycard has paid Ms V a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances Im not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman