DRN-3746070
The complaint
Ms C complained on behalf of Mr C that Lloyds Bank Plc had refused to convert Mr Cs
account into a joint account with Ms C, unless Mr and Ms C attended a branch in person.
What happened
In January 2022 Ms C contacted this service to complain on behalf of her father. It was said 
Mr C, her father, wanted to change his Lloyds account into a joint account with Ms C as a 
joint account holder. Ms C was unhappy on Mr Cs behalf, because following some 
discussions with Lloyds in January 2022, Lloyds had said they needed Mr C to attend a 
branch with Ms C. Ms C referred to thinking this attendance was for them to prove their 
identities. Ms C didnt think this was a fair requirement due to her fathers health.
Ms C thought a previous attendance at a branch of a different banking business in July 2021 
ought to suffice. This different business was part of the same banking group. This other 
business changed the account Mr C held with them into a joint account with Ms C in the 
summer of 2021.
Ms C sent us a copy of the letter her father received from Lloyds in January 2022. In this 
Lloyds apologised they were unable to provide the outcome Ms C wanted. They explained 
that whilst they understood it was difficult for Mr C to attend a branch, this remained a 
requirement under their security procedures. They explained why they thought this and more 
about their approach.
At the time Lloyds made their decision and provided their outcome on the complaint in 
January 2022, Lloyds had previously been informed Mr C had made a power of attorney 
(POA) in Ms Cs favour but didnt have enough information to understand its status.
Ms C sent us a copy of the POA that she originally said allowed her to manage her fathers 
affairs. However this POA cant yet be used or relied upon. This POA is an enduring power 
of attorney (EPA) and was prepared in 2007. There is one condition/ restriction contained on 
the EPA which needs to be met before the EPA can be used to allow Ms C to deal with Mr 
Cs affairs. This is whats known as a restriction. The restriction here is that a registered 
medical practitioner must certify [Mr C]  is no longer capable of managing [his] affairs.
In early 2021 when discussing Mr Cs banking, Ms C had been told that clarification was 
needed on the restriction in the EPA. In the early summer of 2021, she was advised to 
register Mr Cs EPA but had not been happy to do this. By January 2022 it wasnt clear if the 
EPA had been registered (as it needed to be, to be effective) or if it was going to be. Ms C 
also made some comments to Lloyds which arguably which the issue of her fathers mental 
capacity. 
When I started looking at this complaint it was not clear to me if the EPA restriction had been 
met, and/ or, if Ms C was saying Mr C was no longer capable of managing his affairs. 
Not only does the restriction contained in the EPA need to be met before this EPA can be 
used/ relied on. There is a further step to be completed before it can be used or relied on; it 
must also be registered. The EPA requires Ms C to register the EPA if Mr C is becoming or 
becomes incapable of managing his affairs, i.e. lacks mental capacity. This EPA has not 
been registered. Ms C more recently told this service that the circumstances required for the 
EPA to be registered have not yet happened. In other words, her father is not yet incapable 
of managing his affairs.
Until the conditions are met, this EPA cannot be used or relied upon. This service has 
provided fuller information on EPAs and how the law and procedure changed in 2007 when 
the EPA procedure was replaced with the system known as the Lasting Power of Attorney.
Ms C contacted this service further in January 2022 and told us Mr C has serious health
problems. Ms C told us Mr Cs understanding and ability to focus, concentrate and 
remember are all severally impaired. He becomes confused and distressed and as time 
passes, he will no longer be able to converse reliably on the matter.
Complaint to Lloyds
Lloyds records show that in the early summer of 2021 they were informed Mr C has some 
hearing problems.
Lloyds records contain notes that Ms C contacted Lloyds in early January 2022 to ask how 
she could add a joint party to her fathers account as he was in hospital with terminal brain 
cancer. A Lloyds manager explained to Ms C that Mr Cs account couldnt be changed to a 
joint account in the absence of her father.
Ms C says this wasnt what was said at the time. She says this must be wrong as Mr C had 
been in hospital and received treatment in 2020. Information has been provided confirming 
Mr Cs being treated in 2020.
Ms C complained. The Lloyds case records showed this complaint was primarily because of 
the refusal to change Mr Cs account to a joint account, and because this meant she wasnt 
able to support her father with his account and banking during this time.
Lloyds went on to record that Mr C was registered disabled and had a blue badge and that 
Ms C felt reasonable adjustments were being refused. This adjustment being the refusal to 
agree Ms C could be added as a joint account holder in the way she had requested. Lloyds 
recorded that Ms C said she only wanted the account changed into a joint account and that 
no other form of arrangement to enable support was acceptable. Ms C agrees this is her 
position. 
Ms Cs reasons for this were explained to Lloyds as the complaint was being investigated. 
They are that if her father died, a joint account is needed so she wouldnt need to worry 
about Mr Cs account being lost or frozen as part of probate, as it would pass to her name. 
More recently Ms C told us Mr C and Ms C received third party advice they ought to do this.
Lloyds recorded that Ms C told them her fathers mental capacity was reducing at the time. 
Lloyds also recorded Ms Cs refusal of all offers and alternative avenues of providing access 
and support to enable Ms C to help support her fathers banking.
Lloyds considered Ms Cs request and spoke with their vulnerability support team but 
couldnt accommodate the request to change Mr Cs account into a joint account with Ms C, 
due to what theyd been told and their understanding of their duties to safeguard Mr Cs 
account and their security concerns. They considered their indication of their usual 
requirement for attendance at a branch wasnt wrong.Investigators view
The investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint ought to be upheld. He thought Lloyds had 
offered enough. He set out Lloyds information on when they might allow someone else to 
operate a persons account.  He distinguished this from the requirements and terms that 
relate to joint accounts and changing an account into a joint account and provided 
information on this.
Responses to view
Ms C didnt accept the view on behalf of her father. She said Lloyds had confirmed Mr Cs
account would be locked on her fathers death and funds would not be able to be accessed
until after probate. And none of the alternatives suggested by Lloyds overcame this issue.
Ms C expressed her concern that she felt the investigator was questioning her honesty and 
stressed her attendance with her father in July 2021 at a different banking business. Ms C 
thought the investigators view failed to detail the problems shed experienced with Lloyds 
when it came to communications.
First provisional decision
On 19 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I indicated I didnt intend 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint, but I asked for further information. I set out my understanding 
the main thrust of this complaint was that Lloyds had done something wrong in their refusal 
to make Ms C a joint account holder on her fathers account at Lloyds when they were 
requested to. And that they had been wrong to ask him to attend a branch with Ms C or 
provide further information to enable matters to be progressed.
I noted that Id seen Ms C said she wanted to be able to help and support her father with his 
banking, and that Lloyds and the investigator had highlighted there were ways that this could 
be arranged to enable Ms C to support and assist her father in banking. So it didnt seem to 
me that Ms C was complaining on behalf of her father that Lloyds wouldnt make 
adjustments to Mr Cs banking to enable her to support him and his banking due to his ill-
health or any disabilities. It appeared to me the reasons why the joint account was sought 
had shifted to some extent after the initial request.
I noted that Ms C said she wanted to be the joint account holder to ensure that on Mr Cs 
death, if he pre-deceased her, his account would not be frozen. And that she didnt think it 
fair they were both being required to attend a branch. But I didnt think this requirement had 
been unreasonable in the circumstances.
Overall I explained there were a number of reasonable alternative options that would allow 
Ms C to assist and support her father, without needing to convert his bank account into a 
joint account. I was satisfied that Lloyds were willing to enable Ms C to provide additional 
support to her father. 
At the time of my first provisional decision it wasnt clear to me whether the EPA had been 
registered; and if not, why not. Nor was it clear if Ms C was saying her father no longer had 
mental capacity. I was also not clear on why Ms C said Mr C could not attend a branch, 
given the only substantive information provided about his limitations at that stage was to do 
with Mr C being hard of hearing. I didnt think, based on what Id seen, Lloyds could have 
known the answers to these issues either.
So I didnt think it was unreasonable in the circumstances of this case, for Lloyds to have 
wanted to understand more about Mr Cs limitations (and if he had mental capacity), at the time, and in particular to understand more prior to any considerations about whether any 
reasonable adjustments were needed or could be provided.
I didnt think in general terms that Lloyds usual requirement for the account holder and a 
prospective joint account holder to attend the branch was unreasonable. Banks have a duty 
of care in general terms to their customers. In particular based on the limited and potentially 
concerning and conflicting information Lloyds had been provided with, it didnt appear to me 
their request here had been unreasonable. There wasnt enough to suggest they ought to 
have been expected to do anything differently.
I didnt think it would have been reasonable for it to be suggested Lloyds staff would have 
been able to assess Mr Cs mental capacity. But I was not persuaded this was what Lloyds 
had been suggesting. I didnt think converting Mr Cs account into a joint account could 
properly be described as a reasonable adjustment here. In any event Lloyds were able to 
ensure Ms C could support her father in his banking, without a joint account and without the 
EPA being registered. 
As well as inviting further information, I also indicated that I thought there might be areas of 
agreement reached with Mr C and Ms C and Lloyds about what might be possible to assist 
Mr C. But I hadnt seen enough to assist or provide thinking or guidance on this aspect.
Information following the first provisional decision
Ms C provided a substantial quantity of further information and submissions. Ive previously 
explained, I dont intend to detail everything provided, but I have considered everything with 
care. 
In summary I was told the EPA has not been registered and there is no intention to register 
the EPA at the moment, as its said the stage has not been reached for this to be done. 
Medical and other ancillary information was provided. These confirm Mr C has received 
treatment and continues to experience the effects of his treatment. Mr C has experienced 
other symptoms and he underwent further tests and assessments between March and May 
2022. 
The further information says the impact on Mr Cs cognitive abilities fluctuates but he is able 
to complete some activities and make decisions on his own behalf. Its also said he 
experiences some physical frailty and concerns around falling. At least some of these effects 
and/ or symptoms are likely to deteriorate. 
Ms C has told us she and her father received advice to make all their accounts joint, to 
ensure if either of them dies first, the other will be able to continue to access and use the 
accounts. Ms C remains unhappy that some businesses agreed to add her as a joint account 
holder, whilst others will not. Ms C says Mr Cs Lloyds account has now been closed.
Second provisional decision
On 14 September 2022 I issued a second provisional decision. This was not because I had 
changed my thinking from that set out in the first provisional decision. However I wanted to 
acknowledge the significant amount of further material provided since I had issued my first 
provisional decision. 
I noted that whilst the additional information provided helped me to understand the wider 
picture better, it was important to note that ultimately my role is to decide if Lloyds did 
anything wrong when, in the circumstances of this complaint, they declined to add Ms C to the account and asked Mr C to attend the branch and/ or provide further information, in 
respect of the request to have Ms C added as an additional joint account holder.
Responses to second provisional decision
Lloyds accept my decision.
Ms C is unhappy with my provisional decision. I dont intend to set out everything she has 
said, but I looked at everything with care. Ms C considers much of my provisional decision 
inappropriate and says I didnt accurately cover what she considers to be the main issues. 
She has set out a number of different areas where she considers my provisional decision 
failed to detail matters or make points, she considers relevant. 
Ms C says she told Lloyds in early January that she wanted to be added to his account as a 
joint account holder to give herself and her father peace of mind that Mr Cs account could 
be transferred into her sole name [and] this would eliminate any risks of the account being 
locked.
Ms C agrees Lloyds made her aware of potential alternative options available for access and 
for her to support Mr Cs banking; but Ms C rejected these as they would all result in the 
account being locked on his death, and so wouldnt meet what was wanted.
Ms C says that she made a request to Lloyds for what she calls a reasonable adjustment. 
She says that when she suggested Lloyds might accept and agree the necessary 
identification had already been provided, on the basis of their visit to a branch of another 
banking provider within the same banking group in July 2021, this was a request for a 
reasonable adjustment.
Ms C is unhappy as she feels Lloyds and the original investigator didnt accept theyd seen 
enough to accept the July 2021 visit or what had happened then. Ms C is unhappy I didnt 
detail this and other points from the history of this matter. She is also dissatisfied that I 
concluded, based on what was available to me, that the visit did occur in July 2021, and she 
has let me know what else she thinks I ought to have said around this matter.
Ms C stresses the vulnerability of her father based on his medical history and the effects of 
his conditions and treatment. Ms C says she understood my provisional decision to have 
only suggested her father could not attend a branch because of the danger of him falling, 
which she says could have easily been overcome, had it been the only concern. Ms C also 
feels I failed to record the Covid pandemic when I ought to have done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not changing my thinking from that set out previously and I am not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint about Lloyds. The complaint for me to decide is whether it was wrong at the 
relevant time for Mr C to have been asked to attend a branch of Lloyds with his daughter, 
when Lloyds were told Mr C wanted Ms C added to his account. Its said Mr Cs account 
ought to have been made into a joint account without this being requested.
Based on the information Lloyds had been provided with at the time they made this request, 
I dont think they did anything wrong. Nor do would I reasonably have expected them to do 
anything differently at the time. I dont consider their requirement or their approach at the time was wrong or unreasonable. In reaching my decision I have taken into account what 
Lloyds ought reasonably to have understood at the time the request was made. 
In meeting what Lloyds reasonably understood was Mr Cs initial request for his daughter to 
be able to provide him with additional support in his banking, Lloyds acted reasonably in 
trying to assist and facilitate this. Converting Mr Cs bank account into a joint account with 
his daughter, was not the only reasonable way in which Mr Cs needs to have assistance 
with his banking, could be met. Lloyds could and were willing to facilitate the provision of 
additional support for Mr C without him needing to attend a branch.
I also dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to try to explore whether Mr Cs EPA had been 
registered and whether or not it was said Mr C did or did not have mental capacity. Lloyds 
were given inconsistent information that meant they were reasonably concerned and wanted 
to know more about Mr Cs mental capacity. 
It would not have been reasonable for Lloyds to require Mr C to attend a branch to enable 
Lloyds staff to reach a medical conclusion about Mr C, prior to deciding about converting his 
account into a joint account. But I dont think this is an accurate description of what was 
intended. Nor do I think the requirement to attend was simply to deal with proof of identity.
Ive looked with care at the information from the time, and think on balance, that Lloyds were 
trying to find a way forwards and to understand the situation better. I think this was a 
reasonable approach. 
I have only decided the complaint that was brought to our service, which was considered 
and responded to by Lloyds. In other words whether Lloyds did anything wrong in the 
circumstances and based on what Lloyds knew at the time. Overall I dont think Lloyds 
approach, given the circumstances and what Lloyds had been told at the time, was unfair, 
unreasonable, or discriminatory.
That does not mean to say that once Lloyds had been provided with further information, for 
example medical information, I might not have expected Lloyds to offer alternative 
approaches to enable Mr C to change his account into a joint account without needing to 
attend a branch. But that was not the position here, nor was this position ever reached. 
The information provided to Lloyds about Mr Cs medical position and capacity at the time of 
the request can fairly be described as limited and inconsistent. Such information was of the 
category that reasonably made Lloyds concerned. I accept the approach was driven by a 
reasonable concern about Mr C and his account. At the time Lloyds made their request for 
Mr C to attend a branch or provide further information, and when declining the complaint, 
these actions were done with the context of knowing that historically Ms C had not been 
willing to register a POA. 
No one has suggested Ms C was trying to do anything against her fathers interests or 
wishes, and I hope Mr C and Ms C appreciate why the nature of the information Lloyds had 
at the time received might reasonably alert any responsible provider and require them to 
enquire further.
Since the complaint was referred to our service Ms C has provided a substantial amount of 
further information and submissions. This information has explained to me that the EPA is 
not yet registered, and why it isnt. This information also explains to me that Mr C does not 
lack mental capacity but that at times his mental functioning can sometimes be poor. I also 
understand more around why Mr C would find it difficult to travel to a branch. However its 
important to remember Lloyds did not have any of this information at the time they requested 
Mr C attend a branch and when they declined to change his account to a joint account.Ms C will have known much of this information at the time, and she was understandably 
feeling under pressure and worried, so I understand why she felt frustrated. But that doesnt 
mean Lloyds did something wrong. Lloyds didnt possess the same information as Mr C and 
Ms C, and they are required to meet a duty to Mr C and his account when it comes to 
safeguarding.
This service is and is intended to be an informal dispute resolution service. As such we seek 
to resolve problems with a degree of informality. When it comes to my decision, it is for me 
to decide the case, given the weight to such material as I think appropriate. It is also a matter 
for me to conclude what needs to be included in my decision. I have explained I wont 
include a summary of everything that has happened or been said or provided, nor am I 
required to do so. Ultimately it is for me to conclude what I consider relevant and persuasive, 
and how I apportion weight to evidence.
I accept Mr C ought to be considered vulnerable and that its more likely than not he needed 
and needs additional support (certainly at times) when it comes to his banking and more 
generally. This is due to a number of factors.
It is now clearer that Mr C didnt need support all of the time in January 2022 but may have 
required it for some of the time. However in January 2022, Lloyds were told somewhat 
conflicting information around whether Mr C had mental capacity or not. And Lloyds were not 
provided with any medical evidence or letters from a Doctor to assist them in understanding 
what Mr Cs needs or circumstances were, nor were they told of any specified reasonable 
adjustments needed to assist Mr C. 
The requirement for customers wanting to convert their account into a joint account to attend 
a branch, with the proposed additional account holder, is the usual starting point. This 
provides a degree of safeguarding when it comes to customers and to the use of an account. 
I understand why Lloyds response to what they were told raised their concern above the 
usual level for any customer wanting to convert an account into a joint account. Here in 
respect of the duty of care owed to Mr C, and in particular as to whether a vulnerable 
customer might be being taken advantage of, for example.
This is not to suggest that is what Ms C was doing; there is no suggestion of this. But based 
on the information Lloyds were provided with, and in the way it was provided, it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to be concerned. It was reasonable for Lloyds to explain their usual 
approach and to request to see Mr C in branch as a starting point. And for them to ask for 
more information when Ms C said this wasnt possible.
Ms C suggests that when she told Lloyds they ought to accept that she and her father had 
attended a branch of another provider from the same banking group in the summer of 2021, 
this ought to have been considered a reasonable adjustment for them to give her father to 
allow them to deviate from their usual procedure. I dont accept this was something Lloyds 
ought reasonably to have agreed to this. It was a different business and at a different point in 
time.
In any event, Lloyds werent requiring Mr C and Ms C to come to a branch at this time to 
prove their identification. This requirement was because Lloyds were concerned about the 
request for a joint account holder to be added. 
Ms C is dis-satisfied because she feels I havent enquired further into why Lloyds or the 
original investigator hadnt felt they had enough information to conclude Mr C and Ms C had 
attended a branch of a different business in July 2021. This isnt a matter I consider central to the decision I have needed to make. I concluded on the information before me there was 
enough to be satisfied a visit took place in July 2021.
Whilst I dont accept it was either wrong or unreasonable for Lloyds to have declined to 
convert Mr Cs account into a joint account, based on what theyd been told and how, I dont 
think this was necessarily Lloyds final position. As I explained before, Lloyds wanted to 
understand more about why the joint account was required, in particular to understand more 
about Mr Cs needs. I think they were also hoping to understand more about why Ms C had 
referred to potential issues relevant to capacity. I dont think Lloyds had ruled out converting 
Mr Cs account into a joint account,
I am not persuaded that when Ms C told Lloyds the account needed to be converted into a 
joint account so that it wasnt frozen on her fathers death, this ought reasonably to have 
alleviated Lloyds concerns. So I dont consider Lloyds were wrong or unreasonable to have 
continued to ask for further information or for Mr C and Ms C to attend a branch.
It wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to need to understand Mr Cs limitations, any disabilities 
(and here if he has mental capacity) before they considered whether any reasonable 
adjustments could or ought to be provided. Lloyds also needed to be able to reassure 
themselves they had discharged the duty of care owed to Mr C appropriately and sufficiently 
and then, and only then, it might have been Lloyds might have considered whether it was 
appropriate to alter their standard procedure. This point was not reached.
I am left with the impression that in January 2022 Lloyds were reasonably concerned about 
a request to have joint control over an account where the customer might no longer have 
capacity and where Lloyds were being asked to deviate from the usual procedures and 
safety guards in place for setting up joint accounts.
Ms C says she didnt have time under her allocated caring time for her father to provide 
copies of medical information to Lloyds and she says her father would not have been 
capable of doing so. I appreciate this is a difficult time for both of them and they were both 
constrained by the circumstances, I can also see Mr Cs condition was fluctuating, and the 
future must have felt uncertain. But this doesnt mean it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask 
for further information. 
In summary Lloyds had been told their customer may, or may not have mental capacity by 
someone asking to be added as a joint account holder, I hope Mr C and Ms C will 
understand why it was not inappropriate for Lloyds to request more information and better 
understanding of what was going on.
I indicated previously that I thought there might be a way to progress matters to the 
satisfaction of all parties. This was because I could see Lloyds were willing to facilitate Ms C 
being able to assist her father in his banking; and I could see Mr C and Ms C were willing to 
provide further information on Mr Cs health, diagnoses and limitations.
Further information was provided, and I obtained a better understanding of Mr Cs position 
as at January 2022. As Mr Cs account with Lloyds has now been closed, I have not taken 
any steps to share the medical information with Lloyds nor have I asked them to review their 
position.
For completeness
A number of ancillary and additional issues have been raised whilst the complaint has been 
with this service.I dont accept that Lloyds approach ought reasonably to be considered to be discriminatory. 
I think Lloyds wanted to understand more about Mr Cs circumstances and needs. This 
wasnt unreasonable. In the circumstances here, Lloyds accurately identified Mr C might 
properly be considered vulnerable, and as such they were under an increased duty of care 
when it came to any requests to change the way his account was managed.
Ms C complained Lloyds failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mr C in such a way as to 
be discriminatory. In other words, they failed in their duty to make reasonable adjustments 
under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but I ultimately decide this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision on whether or not Lloyds breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then Mr C will need to go to Court.
I understand Mr C and Ms C will have felt additionally frustrated as it appears some 
businesses agreed to do what Mr C and Ms C requested at some point. However simply 
because other financial institutions have or might have made different decisions, is not 
sufficient to establish Lloyds did anything wrong. Indeed it isnt clear to me, based on what 
we have been told, whether any of these institutions might have misunderstood the status 
and contents of the EPA, if this document has been relied on. Ultimately, thats not a matter 
for me.
I appreciate the concerns around Mr C attending a branch came from a variety of different 
circumstances. But I havent concluded that Lloyds ought to have been reasonably aware of 
all of the reasons why Ms C thinks it wasnt appropriate for him to be asked to attend or that 
Lloyds had enough information to be reasonably satisfied it was appropriate or reasonable 
for them to act differently from the way they did.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman