DRN-3648686
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd had a technical issue which led to his card declining at a 
shop multiple times.
What happened
Mr C says he had a new Revolut card which he had been using overseas. He says that 
Revolut had changed the security settings of the card, but he wasnt made aware of this. He 
says he had been using the card overseas for a number of weeks in the same overseas 
country, but his card declined several times, which resulted in him having to unpack and 
repack his shopping and caused him a lot of embarrassment as a disabled person, which he 
says Revolut were aware of. Mr C made a complaint to Revolut.
Revolut did not uphold his complaint. They said that his card was declined due to the 
geolocation security settings, and they provided him with the steps to turn the feature off. 
They signposted their website which says that they compare the last known location of Mr 
Cs device and the location where he is making a payment in order to protect him. They said 
this way, if a card gets stolen, and someone tries to use it in a very different location, the 
payment is automatically declined, and a notification is issued in the application (app), so the 
user is aware. Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said the card had been used in 
the same geographical location since 2019 and it had worked faultlessly in that location up 
until the sequence of failed transactions. He said that it has since worked after this date 
without him altering any settings on the app in the same location and the issue was likely to 
be with the app updating.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said hed reviewed the transaction data for 
each declined transaction which Revolut have supplied. Hed also looked at the transaction 
data for successful card payments prior to this and compared them with Mr Cs declined 
transactions and the difference between the two is that the geolocation mismatch was 
causing the transactions to be declined on 3 May 2022. He said Revolut confirmed that
the geolocation security feature has been available since 2020 and they guided Mr C to the 
relevant information about this on their website after he had a chat with them. He said the 
evidence suggested it more likely than not that there was a Global Positioning System (GPS) 
issue with Mr Cs device at the time, which was causing the mismatch.
Our investigator said that he had asked Revolut for evidence of any similar issues being 
reported at the same time due to an app update. He said Revolut sent him a screenshot of 
their notifications between 1-7 May 2022 about app related incidents which affected the 
geolocation feature, but they had no other reports at this time. He said Revolut explained 
that the location may not have updated due to loss of signal which could be network or 
device related. They said at the time of the transaction, they compare the last
location received from their customers device against the merchants location. If the system 
identified a mismatch, then the payment is declined. Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint as he felt very strongly that Revolut were at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Revolut to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience 
to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. Ive read 
everything that Mr C has said about the impact the events had on him on 3 May 2022, 
especially as he is disabled, so I know why this issue is important to him.
Mr C had six transactions which declined at the same location, for the same amount. As 
Revolut have explained the transactions had declined due to geolocation reasons, Ive had 
an in depth look at the audit of the transactions. As the geolocation security feature 
compares Mr Cs phones last known location with the location of the card terminal at the 
point of the time of the payment, and if the two locations do not match the transaction will be 
declined, Ive had a look at what locations were reported by the GPS showing on the audit 
from the last successful card payment Mr C made and the location which was reported by 
the GPS where the transactions were declined. Its important to note that Revolut do not 
provide the GPS information as theyve already explained it is the phones last known 
location and the location of the card terminal at the time of payment which gives them the 
GPS information.
Mr Cs last successful card payment prior to the declined payments was on 30 April 2022 at 
9:33pm for 50.07EUR. The in depth audit of this payment shows a number of items of 
information about what the merchant (shop) has reported. One of these pieces of information 
is the city. So Ive looked at the city the payment was reporting and compared this to the in 
depth audit of the declined payments. But the declined payments were being reported by the 
merchant in a different city completely. Ive looked online at the distance between the two 
cities where the successful transaction happened on 30 April 2022 and the declined 
transactions on 3 May 2022 happened and these locations appear to be 491km apart. So on 
this basis, it appears that Revoluts security feature acted in the way it should have done and 
the transactions were declined. 
It's been suggested that it could be Mr Cs phone that might have been displaying an 
incorrect GPS location or that there could have been network issues. But Im persuaded that 
the evidence shows the merchants card terminal was showing an incorrect location in a city 
which Mr C wasnt in at the time, based on him saying he uses his card in the same location. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the card working faultlessly in that location since 
2019, up until the sequence of failed transactions. Ive looked at his account transactions for 
2022, up until the date that the sequence of failed transactions happened. The transactions 
show the name of the shop is the same. The description shows the same name followed by 
different wording. So this could mean that Mr C has visited the same shop where his card 
was accepted on 30 April and it was declined on 3 May, but due to how at least one of the 
merchant terminals are displaying the merchant location and description on his transactions, this is why he may be able to use the same shop but have a different outcome in the 
transactions being approved on these two dates.
Ive also had a look at the previous ten successful transactions prior to his declined 
transactions, to see what city the merchants were showing in. And all of them were showing 
in the same city. This was a different city to the merchant involved with the declined 
transactions. So Im not persuaded the fault was with Revolut here as it appears the declines 
were a result of at least one of the card terminals in the shop that Mr C attempted to pay for 
his shopping on 3 May, for the reasons Ive already given. 
Ive considered the strength of feeling that Mr C has that the issue was likely to be with 
Revolut and with their app updating. But as our investigator has explained to him, Revolut 
have proved they had no known geolocation issues with the app around and on the date that 
the transactions were declined. So Ive not seen any evidence to show the declines were 
due to an app error - or any Revolut error, as opposed to the in depth audit showing the 
merchant location being reported in a different city and thats why the payments were 
declined. 
I have also seen evidence that Revolut sent Mr C a notification to his phone on six occasions 
 after each declined transaction, that the transactions had declined due to the geolocation 
mismatch. So Mr C would have been aware at the time that this was the reason for the 
declined transactions unless he had turned notifications off for the app or had any network 
issues. But if he had turned his push notifications off or had any network issues, it would not 
be reasonable to hold Revolut responsible for this as this would be outside of their control, 
when theyve proved they sent the push notifications. 
Theres no doubt that Mr C was distressed as a result of the events which happened on 3 
May 2022, as his card was declined several times due to issues outside of his control, 
especially based on his health situation at that time adding to the distress he had. But in 
order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Revolut made an error in how 
theyve applied their geolocation security measures that they detail on their website. Based 
on the reasons Ive already given, the evidence shows that the reason for the declines is at 
least one of the merchant terminals at the shop he visited on 3 May showed a location in 
another city. So it follows I wont be asking Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman