DRN-3684890
The complaint
Miss M complains One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) unfairly did not renew her motor 
insurance policy after she provided an update to it about a change in her personal 
circumstances.
What happened
Miss M had a motor insurance policy that was bought through a broker. This was a 
three-year policy with One Insurance.
When Miss Ms policy was due to renew she received a new quote from One Insurance. 
Miss M contacted the broker to update them about a medical condition that she had reported 
to the DVLA. This meant that the quote she had received was no longer valid. A new quote 
was sent to her. The policy was with a different provider, the price was higher, and she no 
longer had the additional benefits the previous policy contained.
Miss M contacted the broker as she understood she was on a three-year fixed policy with 
One Insurance. She was informed that due to the update she had provided about her 
medical condition she no longer met the eligibility criteria of One Insurance.
Miss M said she had not had any evidence provided to her as to why she was now deemed 
to be higher risk. 
As Miss M was not happy with One Insurance, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said that 
One Insurance had dealt with the change in her circumstances in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. They said it reviewed Miss Ms eligibility against a clear set of rules 
and had fairly deemed that she was no longer eligible.
As Miss M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M correctly informed One Insurance of her change in circumstances. In this case, due 
to the changes, it said it could no longer offer her a policy. 
When a customers circumstances change within the period of insurance, insurers may not 
always accept the change. If the insurer is able to show us their underwriting criteria that 
says they wouldnt cover the change wed probably say it was fair for the insurer to cancel 
the policy.  
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
One Insurance will take numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, 
but are not limited to, the policyholders postcode, health conditions, the age of the drivers, 
the number of fault claims and non-fault claims etc. And different insurers assess risk 
differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Individual insurers may also use 
different data when assessing the risk posed. But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell One Insurance (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. 
Thats because the risk is One Insurances to take on so it will decide how to assess it and 
will price the policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it 
thinks the risks are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly; insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell One Insurance how much to 
charge Miss M or what specific products it offers with its policies, I can look at whether it 
treated her fairly throughout the time she held her car insurance.
I have considered the change in Miss Ms circumstances. She disclosed a medical condition 
that meant she had a driving licence with restrictions. I think it was fair for the insurer to 
re-assess the risk insured. 
One Insurance reviewed the change in Miss Ms circumstances against a clear set of 
acceptance criteria. When the risk was assessed it was found she no longer met the 
eligibility criteria required for cover with One Insurance. It said it did not offer cover for 
anyone with these circumstances.
One Insurance have a set of underwriting rules to assess risk. It provided me with this 
confidential business sensitive information to explain its acceptance criteria. Im afraid I cant 
share that, but Ive checked it carefully. And I have not seen any evidence that Miss M was 
treated any differently to any other customers in her position. 
I do not think One Insurance have been unfair in its decision not to offer cover and there is 
no evidence that it has treated Miss M any differently to its other customers. 
I realise it will come as a disappointment to Miss M, however I do not uphold her complaint 
and do not require One Insurance to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman