DRN-3660009
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Qmetric Group Limited (QGL) avoided her home insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and declined to pay her claim. 
What happened
Mrs B had a home insurance policy with QGL from 7 October 2019. She initially applied for 
her insurance through a price comparison website. The policy automatically renewed in 2020 
and in 2021. In March 2022, she made a claim under the policy. I understand that the claim 
was related to roof tiles lost during a storm. 
On 27 April 2022, QGL wrote to Mrs B to tell her that some of the information declared on 
her policy application might not be correct. They said that shed answered No to the 
following question theyd asked in September 2021 as part of the policy renewal: 
Within the last 10 years, has your property shown signs of cracking on the internal or 
external surface of an outside wall or party wall, whether this has been repaired or not?
They said theyd renewed the policy on 7 October 2021 on the basis that there was no 
cracking on Mrs Bs external walls. But that when theyd sent out a surveyor to assess her 
recent claim, he had identified cracking to the front of the property. And that the crack had 
been present and visible since at least July 2015. Amongst other things, they asked Mrs B 
when shed first noticed the cracking. QGL said that if theyd been made aware about the 
cracking when Mrs B had applied for insurance, they wouldnt have provided a quotation as 
it wouldve fallen outside their underwriting acceptance criteria. And that it was her duty as 
the policyholder to ensure that all information provided was accurate and up to date. QGL 
told Mrs B that it was likely they would avoid her policy unless she could provide a 
satisfactory explanation. 
Mrs B replied to QGL. She said shed never made a claim before. She said that when shed 
bought her property in late 2016, there was already a crack in the rendering above the main 
entrance to the house. She said shed instructed a full conveyancing survey before the 
purchase and that no concerns were highlighted in the report. She said it was clear when 
looking at the crack that it was cosmetic and didnt affect the main brickwork of the building. 
So she hadnt ever thought it necessary to report the crack. 
QGL asked Mrs B to provide a copy of her homebuyers survey, which she did. 
QGL werent satisfied with Mrs Bs explanation. And on 27 May 2022 they issued Mrs B an 
avoidance notice due to the cracking their surveyors had identified. They said her policy 
would be cancelled back to its start date and treated as though it never existed. They felt 
that the homebuyers report showed evidence of previous ground movement and cracking, 
which Mrs B shouldve declared to them. 
Mrs B appealed to QGL about their decision. She felt that a policy avoidance was unfair. She 
said that when shed used the price comparison website to get insurance quotes, shed been 
asked the following question:
Has your townhouse ever had cracks in its external walls?
We only need to know if cracks have affected the main structure of your wall. You dont need 
to tell us about minor cracks that have affected the render or plaster only.
Mrs B said that as this had clearly stated that only cracking to the main structure of the wall 
(not rendering or plaster) needed to be declared, shed done nothing wrong. She also 
queried why QGL had given her a quote under that criterion if they didnt agree with this 
statement. She said shed answered all of the questions honestly. And that she had seen no 
reason to change any of her answers from the initial quotation to the policy renewals as 
nothing had changed. 
QGL said they dont expect customers to know when cracking is a concern for their insurer 
or when it might indicate other issues. So they dont ask. Instead, they said they ask a clear 
and simple question about any signs of cracking in the property. They also felt that it was 
impossible to be sure that the crack had just affected the render, and not the brickwork 
underneath, unless the render was removed to expose the brickwork. 
QGL acknowledged that the wording on the price comparison website had indicated that 
only structural cracking required declaration, but said it wasnt the case for them. They said 
they didnt distinguish between the different types of cracking, or the cause of the cracking. 
And that they required any and all cracking to be declared. 
Mrs B also said that her homebuyers report hadnt indicated that the previous ground 
movement or cracking had occurred within the last 10 years. And that the report had 
suggested the lowest possible repair category for structural movement. 
QGL replied to Mrs B on 17 June 2022. They addressed the points shed made in her 
appeal. But they still felt that the policy should be avoided from 7 October 2019 due to the 
cracking which Mrs B hadnt notified them about. QGL said that they accepted that Mrs B 
had made a careless error, not a deliberate or wilful misrepresentation. So they said they 
would issue a refund of any premiums paid.
Mrs B felt that the cracking was in the rendering, not the brickwork, and therefore considered 
that shed answered QGLs questions correctly. So she didnt agree with QGLs decision to 
avoid her home insurance policy, and complained to QGL. They issued their final response 
on the complaint on 28 June 2022. 
QGL considered Mrs Bs points, but maintained their decision to avoid the policy. They said 
that if Mrs B had correctly answered their underwriting questions, they wouldnt have been 
able to offer her a quotation, as her responses wouldve been outside of their underwriting 
acceptance criteria. 
Unhappy, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt consider that 
the complaint should be upheld. She felt that QGL had reasonably decided that Mrs B had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation, as she felt Mrs B had answered the relevant questions 
about cracking incorrectly. She also felt that QGL had been correct to treat the 
misrepresentation as careless, rather than as deliberate or reckless.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. She said that the original price comparison website 
that shed used in 2019 pre-populated QGLs questions from the questions shed answered 
for them. She felt this had led to her being able to take out the policy without answering any 
further questions from prospective insurers. Mrs B also told this service that she had been 
unable to replace her home insurance unless she was prepared to complete repairs to the 
cracked render and the broken roof tiles. She said that the rendering didnt need to be fixed, and that the repairs were unaffordable. So she couldnt now secure home insurance. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I dont consider that QGL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when they avoided Mrs Bs policy for careless misrepresentation. I understand 
this will be disappointing to Mrs B. And that it has serious implications for her. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
QGL thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took the policy out and so she has made a careless misrepresentation. They say that when 
they quoted for the policy, Mrs B failed to tell them about cracking to the external walls, and 
previous subsidence, and if she had done so, they wouldve declined cover. So, they say 
they are entitled to avoid the policy, decline the claim and refund the premiums already paid. 
In order to consider whether Mrs B did make a qualifying misrepresentation, Ive looked at 
the evidence provided by both parties. This includes photographs and the homebuyers 
report Mrs B commissioned in 2016. Ive focussed my attention on the failure to inform of 
cracking, as this is the reason QGL gave in their avoidance letter. 
Mrs B first bought her policy online in 2019. She said she used a price comparison website 
which asked her the following question:
Has your townhouse ever had cracks in its external walls?
We only need to know if cracks have affected the main structure of your wall. You dont need 
to tell us about minor cracks that have affected the render or plaster only.
She answered no to this question on the basis that she didnt consider the crack above her 
front door to be anything other than cosmetic damage to the rendering. Her 2016 
homebuyers report had stated that the crack was to the rendering, and that redecoration 
was required. While I acknowledge that QGL dont agree that she shouldve made the 
assumption that the crack was cosmetic, I consider that it wasnt unreasonable for her to 
have done so at this point. Therefore Im satisfied that she answered this question 
reasonably.Mrs B was then taken through to QGLs website. Mrs B said that the original price 
comparison website that shed used in 2019 had pre-populated QGLs questions from the 
questions shed answered for them. 
QGL said that price comparison websites are only designed to gather the main information 
required for them to determine whether they are able to provide cover or not. And that 
customers must provide complete and accurate information throughout the quotation 
process, which includes providing correct and up to date information to further/different 
questions which may be asked when a specific provider is selected. They said that when 
Mrs B had selected their quote shed been re-directed to their website to complete this. They 
said she had been required to check the detail provided to ensure everything remained 
correct. And that when shed done this in 2019, the specific point theyd asked her to confirm 
was: 
It [your property] does not show signs of cracking in external walls? 
Mrs B had said that it did not. 
QGL said that after this, theyd sent Mrs B an email confirming her cover, and telling her to 
review her policy documentation online. They said that included within this documentation 
was her Questions & Answers document, which included her agreement to their point that 
her property didnt shown signs of cracking in external walls. QGL said that theyd also sent 
the policy wording alongside the confirmation of cover, and that this had included the 
following paragraph:
1. Providing accurate and complete information
A copy of the questions and answers that you gave us is available in your account on our 
website or you can ask us for a printed copy. You must check this information carefully 
and let us know immediately if any of the information you have given us in incorrect.
It is important that the information you provide is correct. If we find that it is not correct, 
we may:
-Cancel your policy;
-Refuse to pay any claim;
-Pay only part of a claim;
-Reassess your premium;
-Alter the level of your cover; or 
-Treat your policy as though it had never existed
QGL said that in 2020, the policy automatically renewed. But that Mrs B had provided them 
with no updates to the questions shed answered in 2019. And in 2021, they said theyd told 
Mrs B how important it was to check her information remained correct in the renewal 
invitation letter. Theyd stated that she needed to review the renewal document and let them 
know if anything was incorrect. 
QGL said they updated their questions in April 2021. So the 2021 renewal included new 
questions that had been pre-filled based on earlier responses within that years Questions 
and Answers document, one of which was:Within the last 10 years, has your property shown signs of cracking on the internal or 
external surface of an outside wall or party wall, whether this has been repaired or not? 
To which Mrs Bs answer was recorded as No. 
QGL said Mrs B didnt contact them to tell them that the information theyd shared was 
incorrect. So her policy had been automatically renewed with effect from 7 October 2021 on 
the basis that her property didnt show signs of cracking in external walls. They said they 
after this, they sent Mrs B her policy documentation, within which theyd detailed the 
importance of providing accurate information. But that Mrs B hadnt contacted them. 
QGL said that the price comparison question wasnt relevant to the different question they 
had asked Mrs B to confirm. And that it was her duty as the policyholder to check the 
information theyd based the policy on. And to provide correct and up to date information. 
They said they dont ask about structural cracking, but whether a property shows any signs 
of cracking. So they felt it was clear that any and all cracking required declaration. They said 
that the cracking had been properly declared they wouldnt have provided a quotation as the 
request wouldve fallen outside their underwriting acceptance criteria. 
QGL said that as the cracking in Mrs Bs property was still present and visible, it shouldve 
been declared. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said. I consider that: It [your property] does 
not show signs of cracking in external walls? is a clear and unambiguous statement and 
covers any cracking, not just cracking that Mrs B considered might be a cause for concern. I 
appreciate that Mrs B said that this response was pre-populated by her answer to a different 
question, which  as I mentioned earlier - I consider she did answer correctly. But Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for QGL to ask more specific questions before deciding 
whether to take on new cover. And in my view QGL gave sufficient clear warnings in their 
documentation that Mrs B needed to check the information theyd based her policy on. And 
to correct it if needed. 
Mrs B was recorded as responding that the statement was correct, that is, there was no 
cracking in the external walls. Given the warnings QGL gave Mrs B in their documentation, 
Im not satisfied that Mrs B took reasonable care when reviewing the answers to this 
question to ensure that her recorded answer was correct. 
While I acknowledge that Mrs B said that she didnt consider the crack to be anything other 
than cosmetic when she first answered the price comparison websites question, review of 
the photos of the crack appear to show that it is now a fairly deep crack that is likely to have 
gone through to the brickwork. Based on the current apparent state of the crack, I cant 
reasonably say that Mrs B could now correctly answer that question in the same way. 
CIDRA requires Mrs B to take reasonable care when answering the questions from the 
insurer, and unfortunately, I dont think Mrs B took sufficient care to check that her recorded 
response was accurate. 
QGL have provided me with underwriting evidence to show that that if any cracking had 
been declared, they wouldnt have offered cover, and so I am satisfied that Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one, as no policy would have been offered. 
QGL have said that they consider this misrepresentation to be careless rather than 
deliberate and that is why they have avoided the policy and refunded Mrs Bs premiums. 
Im also of the view that Mrs Bs misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate. And so Im satisfied that QGL were entitled to avoid Mrs Bs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
This means that her policy effectively never existed, so QGL doesnt have to deal with her 
claim for roof tiles. It also means that Mrs B is obliged to inform future insurers about the 
avoidance.
Overall, I consider that QGL acted fairly and reasonably when they avoided Mrs Bs policy 
for careless misrepresentation. Im sorry that this has had serious unwanted implications for 
Mrs Bs future cover, but I cant reasonably say that QGL did anything wrong. And I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman