DRN-4322265
The complaint
Mr J complains that Town & Country Legal Services LLP (T&C) has unfairly started legal 
action to secured a debt to their property by way of a charging order. 
What happened
In August 2021 T&C was instructed by a lender Ill call M to collect an outstanding balance of 
£17,981.30 plus costs of £5,394.39 in relation to a loan from Mr J. The contractual monthly 
payments were around £500 a month. 
Mr J has explained that around the same time, he arranged a Debt Management Plan (DMP) 
via a business Ill call P. But the debt to M wasnt included in the DMP so payments werent 
being made. In September 2021 Mr J and his wife discussed the account with T&C and it 
agreed to accept payments of £100 for six months. T&C said it wanted to revisit the payment 
plan after six months was over. 
Mr J made payments in line with the arrangement hed agreed with T&C. From March 2022 
T&C sent Mr J requests to make contact to review the £100 payment arrangement as six 
months had passed. No contact was received from Mr J but payments of £100 continued. 
In August 2022 T&C was notified Mr J had appointed a new debt advice service. At the end 
of September 2022 a payment of £61.33 was made to T&C. From October 2022 payments 
of £59.85 were made. Mr Js new debt advisors, G, confirmed an offer of £59.85 for 
payments towards Ms debt. 
T&C says that in November 2022 it contacted M for instructions on how to proceed. T&C 
says M confirmed it wished to pursue a charging order to secured the debt against Mr Js 
property. 
On 2 December 2022 T&C sent Mr J a letter before claim asking him to make contact to 
discuss options for repayment to avoid legal action. Mr J contacted T&C and offered to make 
repayments of £110 a month to avoid the legal action to secure the debt to his property. T&C 
says it emailed M the same day and received confirmation that it still wished to proceed with 
the charging order. 
On 8 December 2022 a debt advisory service contacted T&C on Mr Js behalf and made an 
offer to make monthly payments of £59.85 a month. 
T&C says that it proceeded with the legal action in line with its instructions from M. In 
January 2023 a claim was made via solicitors appointed by T&C explaining it intended to 
take action to seek a charging order via the courts. The claim form included an outstanding 
balance of £16,535.47 plus costs of £5,394.39. 
Mr J raised a complaint about the decision to pursue a charging order and T&C issued a 
final response on 25 January 2023. T&C said the collections costs had been added to the 
outstanding balance by M when it was instructed to collect the debt. T&C also said it had 
agreed a £100 six month payment plan but it ended in March 2022. T&C said it was acting 
on Ms instruction when pursuing the charging order. T&C added that it had received a DMP 
proposal of £59.85 on Mr Js behalf but that, at that rate, it would take until 2053 to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
think T&C had acted unfairly by starting court action on Ms behalf. The investigator added 
that even though Mr J had offered payments of £110 a month, his DMP administrator had 
gone on to offer payments of £59.85 which was too low to repay the balance in a reasonable 
timeframe. The investigator said that the costs included in the claim form were already  
applied by M when T&C was instructed to collect the balance. 
Mr J asked to appeal and forwarded evidence to show hed corresponded directly with M 
and been referred to T&C. Mr J said that T&C hadnt acted in line with the relevant 
regulations. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js explained that he was party to a DMP, originally arranged by a business known as P. 
But the DMP wasnt correctly set up and didnt include Ms debt. As a result, payments were 
missed and the loan with M was closed at default. I can see that Mr J was able to arrange a 
six month payment plan in September 2021. But that plan was the first that had been offered 
to T&C and wasnt made on the basis of a DMP. And when the payment plan of £100 a 
month was agreed, it was only for a six month period. 
I can see T&C attempted to contact Mr J to arrange a new payment plan and discuss the 
status of the account in March 2022, when the six month arrangement ended. And whilst Mr 
J continued to make payments of £100 a month to T&C, that was a temporary six month 
agreement that had already ended. Any new payment arrangement wouldve been subject to  
discussion and an assessment of Mr Js circumstances. T&C wasnt obliged to continue 
accepting payments of £100 a month indefinitely. 
Mr Js payment for September 2022 was lower at £61.33. And payments of £59.85 were 
made from October 2022. At this point, the six month payment arrangement agreed in 
September 2021 had been expired for around six months and payments from September 
2022 onwards were reduced. Ive reviewed T&Cs contact records and can see it contacted 
M in November 2022 and received an instruction to proceed with legal action to obtain a 
charging order. And the contact records show T&C contacted M again on 2 December 2022 
and received confirmation that the legal action should continue. 
I understand Mr J told T&C he was willing to make higher payments of £110 a month, but I 
note that Mr Js debt advisors made a substantially lower offer of £59.85 on his behalf as 
well. Im satisfied that T&Cs contact notes show both offers were put to M to consider but it 
was ultimately told to proceed with efforts to obtain a charging order. 
Whilst I understand Mr J was willing to make payments towards the outstanding balance, the 
contractual monthly payment was £503. Given that both the offer made by Mr J and his DMP 
administer fell significantly below that level Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for T&C 
to consider other options, like obtaining a charging order, to secure the debt. And, as Ive 
said above, the contact records show T&C checked with M concerning how to proceed 
before legal action was instructed. Mr J has explained that he thinks T&C failed to follow the pre action protocol for legal action. 
But the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service and decides 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied it was fair for T&C to take instruction from M concerning whether it should take legal 
action to obtain a charging order.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but having considered all the available evidence I havent 
been persuaded that T&C acted unfairly or made a mistake. As a result, Im not telling T&C 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman