DRN-3459463
The complaint
Mr O complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr O was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentInterest Loan status
March 2017 £5,000 36 Months £234.73 £3,450.28 Paid February 
2020
Mr O told 1Plus1 he planned to use the loan to pay for a car. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint. She didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve 
provided the loan and so she recommended upholding the complaint and set out the steps 
1Plus1 needed to take to put things right.
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it mainly said it was satisfied 
that its affordability assessment showed this loan was easily affordable for Mr O and his 
adverse credit history reflected his attitude to credit rather than lack of affordability. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator and I am upholding Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain in more detail why I say this.
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
Ive kept in mind that the rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to 
lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. And a fair lending 
decision includes more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Even if a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to 
think about whether there is any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to 
lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to 
significant adverse consequences or more money problems for a borrower already 
struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
On this occasion, 1Plus1 asked Mr O about his income and expenditure, it carried out credit 
checks to understand his credit history and an electronic check to verify his pay. It also took 
into account statistical information when comparing Mr Os declared expenditure against 
national data showing typical spending for someone in the same situation.
1Plus1 recorded a figure of £6,800 net salary per month. After doing its own background 
checks and allowing for what it thought he would likely need to spend each month, plus a 
buffer of £400 for emergencies, 1Plus1 worked out that Mr O should still have been left with 
around £2,900 disposable income. This was much more than the monthly repayment 
needed to cover its loan, so this led 1Plus1 to conclude that the loan was affordable for 
Mr O.
Ive taken carefully into account everything 1Plus1 has said about the way it assessed 
affordability. And I've thought carefully about what a responsible lender should have made of 
all the information it had gathered and, in particular, whether it was enough for 1Plus1 to 
make a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator thought 1Plus1 needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan. 
1Plus1 responded by asking our investigator to obtain bank statements that showed the 
monthly repayments werent affordable. But I dont need to say more about this or make a 
finding on the proportionality of the checks 1Plus1 did because this makes no difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. I think the checks 1Plus1 did carry out meant the lender 
already had enough information in front of it to realise that this loan looked unsustainable for 
Mr O.
I say this because 1Plus1 had information showing that Mr O already had serious money 
management problems. 
From its credit checks, 1Plus1 could see that Mr O already had total outstanding unsecured 
debt of around £21,574. I dont think that seemed excessive or disproportionate for someone 
earning as much as Mr O. But I think it was concerning that approximately a third of his total 
indebtedness related to a single defaulted account from July 2012 now with a debt collector 
 and this was likely to remain the case for the foreseeable future given that Mr O was 
paying just £200 towards this.
I think its fair to say an historic default might not tell a lender very much useful information 
about someones overall financial situation some five years later. And although 1Plus1s 
affordability assessment suggested that Mr O could have repaid this debt out of surplus 
cash, easily within 3 months, I accept that Mr O might have had his own reasons for not 
paying more towards clearing this old default. 
 
But 1Plus1 could see from its credit checks that Mr O had another much more recent default 
from November 2016, around four months prior to this loan application. I think 1Plus1 would 
have understood this suggested that Mr Os apparent money problems were not just historic 
but potentially ongoing. 
Im mindful that the defaulted balance was just £63 and possibly this was simply an account 
that Mr O mightve overlooked. But I think the indications of financial difficulty were also 
borne out by the following information that 1Plus1 could also see:
.
a loan with another provider of expensive short term and high cost lending which had 
a balance of £2,359  Mr O had fallen behind on the loan repayments over the previous nine months or so and he was in a payment arrangement and paying £334 
per month towards this account 
another large loan (with a different high cost credit provider) with a balance of £7,032 
and a monthly repayment of £365. Mr O had also fallen behind with payments owed 
on this loan just three months earlier. And although the account had quickly been 
brought back up to date, 1Plus1 was aware from its discussion with Mr O that this 
was a guarantor loan  in other words, someone else was responsible for making the 
loan repayment if Mr O failed to do so. This wasnt discussed in any detail with Mr O 
as far as I can tell. So I dont think 1Plus1 could reasonably have drawn any positive 
conclusions about the affordability of its loan just based on the fact this account had 
been promptly rectified.  
Mr O had also been in arrears around the same time on a communications account 
and he had two mail order accounts both in arrears dating back some months. The 
balances were £285 and £602. 
1Plus1 needed to think about bigger picture. Whilst its affordability assessment suggested 
that its loan looked affordable, I think the conclusion that Mr O had as much (or any) 
disposable income was clearly at odds with all this information which indicated a persistent 
pattern of late and failed payments and long outstanding and unresolved debt issues. Mr O 
appeared to be unable to manage even small repayments of credit such as minimum 
repayments on mail order accounts with relatively low balances. He had outstanding 
balances on credit cards that he could have comfortably cleared if he had really had the 
amount of surplus cash 1Plus1 thought he ought to have. Credit card debt is expensive and 
it seems unlikely to me that someone on top of their finances, even a person with a relaxed 
attitude towards using credit, would choose to incur avoidable interest which had the 
potential to add very significantly to credit card debt.   
To sum up, despite what its affordability assessment appeared to show, I think 1Plus1 had 
acquired enough information overall for it to have realised that it wasnt fairly able to 
conclude that a further monthly commitment of around £234 each month for next three years 
was likely to be sustainably affordable. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything 1Plus1 has said, including its 
response to the investigators view. I acknowledge that the lender took some steps to verify 
income (using third party sources). But it didnt do any particular checks into Mr Os declared 
or actual spending. Instead, it seems to have mainly relied on statistical information to 
compare Mr Os expenditure against national data showing typical spending for someone in 
the same situation  even though what it saw in its credit checks didnt seem to fit the 
expected pattern for someone apparently in his comfortable financial situation. 
Given that its affordability assessment was based on limited information and supposition and 
bearing in mind the evidence it saw in its credit checks, I think 1Plus1 should have 
understood that its affordability assessment couldnt be relied on. And, in reality, that Mr O 
appeared to be struggling to repay his existing credit commitments. So further lending, which 
1Plus1 knew would likely add to his total indebtedness and increase his monthly credit 
spend, was not sustainably affordable on the balance of the evidence in front of it. 
1Plus1 said that Mr Os attitude to credit is the reason for his adverse credit history but that 
seems to be an assumption on the part of 1Plus1 based on his high income level. I've 
listened carefully to the call recording 1Plus1 had with Mr O during the loan application 
process when it discussed Mr Os financial situation with him. I cant fairly say that 1Plus1 enquired in any meaningful way into the reasons for his adverse credit history. It didnt, for 
instance, ask Mr O to explain his historic defaults or his record of missed payments. 
And I dont think it necessarily follows that having a high income means credit is 
automatically affordable  at least, not without a proper understanding of how money is 
actually being spent and 1Plus1 didnt have that knowledge. What 1Plus1 actually saw 
contradicted its assertion that the loan was affordable. 
Given that this was a large loan, over a three year term with significant interest being added, 
it already carried a high risk of becoming unaffordable or unsustainable. 
All in all, I dont think 1Plus1 was reasonably able to say that the information it gathered 
supported its lending decision or that it saw enough to be satisfied that Mr O would be able 
to sustainably afford to make the repayments for its loan when the indications were that he 
couldnt afford to maintain payments towards existing accounts.
For all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision based 
on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to provide this loan to 
Mr O.
As Mr O has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
1Plus1 did wrong.
So, 1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 1Plus1 should pay any additional redress. Mr O 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 1Plus1 acted 
unfairly towards Mr O in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending.
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr O shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
1Plus1 should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr O received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr O made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
I understand the loan is paid in full, but if any capital balance should remain 
outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment 
plan with Mr O.Whilst its fair that Mr Os credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 1Plus1 should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman