DRN-2831079
The complaint
Miss I complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans lent to her irresponsibly 
without doing sufficient affordability checks or properly evaluating her financial situation 
when she was already struggling financially.  
What happened
Miss I was given a single loan by Bamboo. The main loan details are as follows:
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical  
monthly  
repayment*
3.1.2019 Repaid early 18 £1,200 £106.62
When Miss I complained to Bamboo it didnt uphold the complaint. Bamboo said it made a 
fair lending decision and approved the loan after carefully considering Miss Is circumstances 
and affordability. Bamboo did however offer a payment of £100 as a gesture of goodwill in 
order to settle the complaint quickly.
Miss I didnt feel this offer went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and she felt that this was a complaint 
we should uphold. She thought a proportionate check wouldve revealed to Bamboo that 
Miss I was persistently overdrawn and used pay day lenders, strongly suggesting that she 
had no disposable income to service this loan and would need to borrow to sustain the loan 
repayments. So our investigator felt Bamboo shouldnt have provided the loan to Miss I.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it mainly said:
Miss Is income was comfortably above the minimum she would need to be able to 
sustainably afford the loan repayment
she was using only 42% of her available credit
it saw evidence of non-essential spending
whilst she was using her overdraft, her account limit was less than one months net 
income
checks done were proportionate given the small loan value and short term, Miss Is 
low balance to limit ratio and excellent repayment history shown on her credit file
Miss I paid the loan well, the loan performed as expected and so she suffered no 
detriment as a result of Bamboos decision to lend.
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman review so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having thought carefully about 
everything, I am upholding Miss Is complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Is complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
And its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable 
a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say 
what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate 
checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left 
to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the 
loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate 
check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take 
further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
Bamboo gathered some information from Miss I before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income and verified this by doing an online check. Bamboo obtained a credit 
report to find out about Miss Is credit history. It also asked Miss I what she paid for her 
housing and relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses 
would be for someone in Miss Is particular circumstances based on national UK averages. 
Miss Is monthly take home pay was recorded as £1,689. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and taking into account what it thought Miss I would likely need 
to spend each month, Bamboo worked out that Miss I should have a cash surplus each 
month of more than £474 after paying for its loan. So Bamboo concluded that the monthly 
repayment for this loan shouldve been affordable for her and that it was fair to provide this 
loan to Miss I. 
Ive carefully taken into account everything Bamboo has said  including comments it made 
in response to our investigators view. But overall I see things differently to Bamboo. 
Ive considered what Bamboo has said about Miss Is management of her credit cards 
and accounts generally. But I think its fair to say that she had an erratic payment record 
 for instance, whilst she had made a payment of £1,826 to a credit card some nine 
months or so earlier and so cleared the balance outstanding in one go, she had in fact 
gone over the account limit the month before. Miss I had gone on to rely substantially on using that card for cash advances  10 times in 
the 6 months running up to her applying for this loan. And I think Bamboo was able to see 
she had been obtaining cash advances this way for some time.
I think Bamboo will be aware that this is a very expensive way to obtain money. To my mind, 
it was potentially an indicator of financial difficulty if Miss I had found herself in such urgent 
need of cash she had repeatedly needed to use a credit card for this purpose. 
Bamboo was aware that her current account was practically at its arranged £1,100 limit 
and it saw that she had taken out a £50 payday loan. 
Miss Is use credit didnt fit in with what Bamboo might have expected to see for someone 
with around £580 per month spare cash. I think Bamboo shouldve realised that the 
information it had recorded about Miss Is finances was significantly at odds with what its 
credit checks showed and that it couldnt safely rely on what Miss I had told it about her 
financial situation or how she spent her money. All this leads me to think that Bamboo 
should have done more to verify what she had declared to ensure a more thorough 
understanding of her financial circumstances. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate 
checks would likely have shown.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Miss I which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding her overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if Bamboo had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was 
going to be sustainably affordable for Miss I. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Bamboo had calculated, in reality Miss I was mostly struggling to her keep her bank account 
in credit. She was making full use of her arranged overdraft  she had started and ended the 
last few months overdrawn and the account had been in credit for less than a week after her 
pay went into the account the previous month. This was despite loans from other providers 
of high cost credit being paid into the account  including at least two loans in the weeks 
prior to applying for this loan  one for £50 and another for £170. She had taken expensive 
unsecured loans of £300 and £170 the month before and was also paying another payday 
lender. 
I think the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit and 
already unable to afford the cost of her debt without borrowing to fund repayments. So I think 
that Bamboo shouldve realised that having to pay for this loan as well didnt look sustainably 
affordable.  
I dont agree with Bamboo when it says its loan wasnt detrimental to Miss I. It cost her extra 
in interest payments whilst it was running and she wouldnt have incurred that additional 
expense if Bamboo hadnt agreed to provide this loan to Miss I. Paying the loan early doesnt 
mean that Miss I was able to do so in a sustainable way. For these reasons, I am upholding 
Miss Is complaint that she should not have been given the loan.
As Miss I has been further indebted with the cost of a loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did wrong. 
So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bamboo should pay any additional redress. Miss I 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo acted 
unfairly towards Miss I in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss I to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But in line with this Services approach, Miss I 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
Bamboo should do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Miss I received as a result of being 
given the loan. The payments Miss I made should be deducted from this 
amount
oif this results in Miss I having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
owhilst its fair that Miss Is credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial 
history, its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse 
information recorded about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Bamboo 
should remove any adverse information placed on Miss Is credit file 
regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Miss I a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Miss I. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman