DRN-4417985
The complaint
Mr H complains that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) caused avoidable delays to the 
transfer of his pension from his existing provider  provider J - to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with AJ Bell. 
Mr H has made a separate complaint about provider J which this service has already 
considered. This decision will only consider Mr Hs complaint against AJ Bell. 
What happened
Mr H had a SIPP with provider J. He held three Permanent Interest-Bearing Shares (PIBS) 
within his SIPP, including one with a business Ill refer to as business Y. His SIPP had a 
transfer value of £530,000, with most of the funds held in cash. 
Mr H signed a Letter of Authority to transfer the benefits from his SIPP with provider J on 4 
December 2019. AJ Bell said it received this on 6 December 2019. 
On 9 December 2019, AJ Bell wrote to provider J to tell it that Mr H wanted to make a full 
transfer of his SIPP to AJ Bell. It said that it couldnt proceed with the transfer instruction until 
itd received a full list of the assets that would be transferred in-specie. So that it could check 
that those assets would be acceptable under its scheme. 
Mr H said that hed asked AJ Bell if the PIBS could be transferred to it. And that it had 
confirmed that they all could. So hed then asked for an in-specie transfer to be completed.
AJ Bell emailed Mr H on 16 December 2019. Within this email, it confirmed that it required 
the Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) references for each of his SIPP assets 
before it could proceed with the transfer. It said this was because the SEDOL references 
would allow it to assess whether Mr Hs current holdings with provider J would be acceptable 
on the AJ Bell platform. And that it couldnt proceed with an in-specie transfer until these had 
been provided.
AJ Bell chased provider J for a response to its 9 December 2019 transfer email on 19 
December 2019. 
AJ Bell wrote to Mr H on 23 December 2019 regarding discharge paperwork it had received 
from provider J. It asked him to complete and return the discharge paperwork. But said that it 
couldnt yet complete the receiving scheme declaration as it hadnt received the SEDOL 
references it needed. It asked Mr H to contact provider J to get that information. It said it 
couldnt request the information directly, as it didnt hold any authority over his account with 
provider J.
Mr H replied to AJ Bell on 29 December 2023, stating that he would call provider J to get the 
SEDOL references. And on 8 January 2020, he emailed AJ Bell to tell it that although hed 
spoken to provider J, it couldnt give him the SEDOL references as there was a direct 
administrator - administrator C. Mr H said hed spoken to administrator C, which had agreed 
to provide the SEDOL references. 
After a further chaser email from AJ Bell, provider J provided the SEDOL references to AJ 
Bell on 13 January 2020.
AJ Bell wrote to Mr H on 23 January 2020 to tell him that, having reviewed the investments 
that he intended to transfer to it, it wasnt able to hold his PIBS with business Y. But it could 
facilitate the transfer if it were done in cash. So if Mr H wanted to proceed in cash, it asked 
Mr H to ask provider J to sell down the unacceptable investment, so the proceeds could be 
transferred as cash. AJ Bell asked Mr H to tell it how he wanted to proceed. 
Mr H replied to AJ Bell. He said he had a total of three PIBS, and wanted to know why this 
one was different from the other two. He said hed had a call with AJ Bell during which itd 
told him it could hold all of his PIBS. 
On 27 January 2020, AJ Bell told Mr H that it could hold the other two PIBS. But that it 
couldnt hold the PIBS with business Y as it was a Contingent Convertible (CoCo) bond. It 
said that CoCo bonds were non-standard investments that were out of its investment policy 
and therefore not eligible for its scheme.
AJ Bell apologised for any confusion. And said that due to the wide range of funds available, 
it sometimes only realised it couldnt accept a particular fund during the transfer process.
Mr H decided to sell the PIBS with business Y and to transfer the proceeds to AJ Bell along 
with the rest of the cash holding. But he soon realised that he couldnt sell the PIBS with 
business Y. On 4 February 2020, Mr H asked AJ Bell if it could take temporary possession of 
the stock before he sold it, or if he could leave the stock where it was and transfer the 
proceeds at a later date.
On 7 February 2020, AJ Bell said that it couldnt take temporary possession of the stock as it 
wasnt accepted on its platform. But that it could process a partial transfer.
Mr H then decided to arrange a partial transfer with everything from his existing SIPP except 
the PIBS with business Y. AJ Bell emailed provider J to confirm this on 10 February 2020. Its 
email stated: Please note, the transfer is to comprise of an in-specie transfer of the 
enclosed list of assets. The client has requested that the below asset is not transferred and 
is to remain in their account held with you: [PIBS with business Y].
AJ Bell said it sent a number of chasers to provider J to progress the transfer. The first was 
sent on 17 March 2020. Then chasers were sent for an opening valuation on 7 April 2020, 
20 April 2020 and 28 April 2020, with the valuation being received on 29 April 2020. Then it 
said it wrote to accept the transfer and to confirm again on 1 May 2020 that it couldnt hold 
the CoCo bond. 
AJ Bell also said that although provider J had confirmed that it would arrange the transfer on 
18 May 2020, itd contacted it to try to expedite the process on 1 June 2020. AJ Bell said that 
at this point provider J told it that it needed a share certificate to transfer one of the PIBS 
included in the transfer. And that it wasnt until 2 July 2020 that it received this. AJ Bell said it 
then proceeded with the partial transfer, completing on 29 July 2020.
Mr H contacted AJ Bell in July 2020, before the partial transfer had completed, as he was 
unhappy with the progress of his transfer. AJ Bell replied to Mr H on 14 July 2020, noting 
that he didnt yet want to raise the issue as a formal complaint. However, it noted his 
dissatisfaction and gave him referral rights to The Pensions Ombudsman, but not this 
service. 
Mr H then started a new transfer to a different provider for the PIBS with business Y. This transfer was completed a few months later.
On 5 December 2022, Mr H emailed this service as he felt hed discovered a letter from AJ 
Bell that categorically stated it would accept the PIBS with business Y. He felt this meant 
that he had grounds to complain to AJ Bell for the first two months of delay to his transfer. 
Mr H felt that AJ Bell was responsible for delays to his transfer before February 2020. This 
was because he said hed had a telephone conversation with AJ Bell before this date when 
itd confirmed that it could accept his PIBS. And because hed recently discovered some 
written advice from AJ Bell in 2015 which stated that the PIBS with business Y was a 
permissible instrument on its platform. However, Mr H told this service that he still held 
provider J primarily responsible for the delays. 
Our investigator noted that although AJ Bell had noted Mr Hs dissatisfaction in July 2020, it 
hadnt issued a final response. So Mr H hadnt been given six months from the date of such 
a letter to refer his complaint to this service. Therefore, although Mr H had asked us to look 
into this complaint in late 2022, his complaint had been brought in time for us to consider.
Mr H emailed AJ Bell on 22 December 2022. He said hed called its transfers in department 
and itd confirmed that all the stock in his pension could be transferred. And hed also now 
found written confirmation (dated 29 June 2015) from AJ Bell that it could accept the PIBs 
with business Y. He asked it to comment on this evidence.
AJ Bell replied to Mr H the following day. It said that what it was able to hold could change 
on a daily basis. So a letter from four and a half years ago was out-of-date and couldnt 
reasonably be relied upon.  
AJ Bell wrote to this service on 15 February 2023. It didnt think it had caused any delay to 
the pension transfer. It said its terms and conditions, which Mr H had agreed to when he 
opened his account, stated (Clause 5.2):
We may alter the permitted investments range at any time without notice and require the 
sale (or at our discretion if the related regulatory requirements permit, transfer out or 
withdrawal) of investments removed from it, but will only normally do so if, for example, 
purchasing or holding the investment might result in a breach of regulatory requirement or it 
could result in us incurring liability in excess of the value of investment or if we could 
consider that investment is too complex or costly to administer.
AJ Bell said that, with the terms and condition in mind, even if it had confirmed that the asset 
in question was permissible, it could fairly change this at any time. It also felt that it had 
progressed the transfer in a timely manner and had contacted the relevant parties to query 
their progress. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that AJ Bell had been 
entitled to refuse to accept any of Mr Hs investments, even if it had told him at the start of 
the process that it could accept everything. And she didnt think it caused unavoidable 
delays later on in the process.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He still felt that AJ Bell had confirmed to him, both 
verbally and in writing, that it could take all the PIBS. And that itd only later changed its mind 
once itd checked the SEDOL references. He felt this made AJ Bell responsible for the first 
part of the delay to his transfer, from December 2019 to February 2020. Mr H said he wasnt 
sure whether AJ Bell or provider J was responsible for not completing the partial transfer in a 
timely fashion. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr H. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Before I start, I appreciate that Mr H still wants to get to the bottom of who is responsible for 
the length of time his transfer took. I completely understand why he feels that the businesses 
involved in the transfer mustve been responsible for at least some of the delays. Ive 
reviewed all of the information provided in respect of this complaint against AJ Bell. And Ive 
also looked at the relevant information about this complaint held in respect of Mr Hs 
complaint with provider J. But Im not able to comment on anything other than AJ Bells role 
in the transfer. So I cant provide Mr H with the holistic response I know hed find most 
helpful. All I can do is look at AJ Bells actions to decide whether or not those actions caused 
an avoidable delay. 
Id also like to confirm that I agree with our investigator that, due to AJ Bell not actually 
issuing a final response referring Mr H to this service in 2020 when it first noted his 
dissatisfaction, his complaint has been brought to this service in time.
Mr H has been clear to this service that he holds AJ Bell responsible for any delays to his 
transfer between December 2019 and February 2020. This is because he feels that AJ Bell 
initially said it would accept all three of his PIBS in-specie, but then changed its mind after 
seeing the SEDOL references.
I first considered if AJ Bell did anything wrong here.
Did AJ Bell cause any delays between December 2019 and February 2020?
Mr H considers that AJ Bell made an error early on in the transfer process, when he said it 
confirmed to him that it could accept all of his PIBS. But that it corrected this error in 
February 2020, after confirming which funds it could actually accept after receiving the 
SEDOL references for all of Mr Hs funds. 
Mr H hasnt said exactly when AJ Bell told him it could accept all of his PIBS, although the 
timeline hes provided to this service suggested it couldve been on 12 December 2019. But 
as early as 9 December 2019, on its initial contact with provider J, AJ Bell made it clear that 
it couldnt proceed with Mr Hs transfer instruction until itd fully checked whether his funds 
would be acceptable under its scheme. And on 16 December 2019, AJ Bell made the same 
point in an email to Mr H. 
I consider that AJ Bells 16 December 2019 email to Mr H clearly explained what it needed 
and why. And that if itd already accepted that it could take all of Mr Hs assets, it wouldnt 
have needed to send this. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H queried why AJ Bell needed 
this. I wouldve expected him to have done so if he genuinely felt that AJ Bell had already 
confirmed that it could accept all of his assets.
AJ Bell didnt receive the SEDOL references it needed until 13 January 2020. And on 23 
January 2020, it wrote to Mr H to tell him it couldnt accept one of his PIBS as part of the in-
specie transfer. On 27 January 2020, AJ Bell emailed Mr H in response to his question about why two of his 
PIBS were acceptable, but the other one wasnt. In this email, it apologised for any 
confusion. It said that because it had a wide range of funds available, it sometimes didnt 
realise a particular fund couldnt be accepted until it was going through the transfer process.
Given the wording of this email, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that AJ Bell had 
previously told Mr H that it should be able to accept all of his funds. 
However, I agree with our investigator that its unlikely that it wouldve told him it could 
definitively accept everything. I say this because otherwise, it wouldve had no need to 
request the SEDOL references in order to do a full review of the assets Mr H intended to 
transfer. And when it did request Mr Hs help in getting those references, he didnt question 
why they were needed. Or say that hed already been told everything would be acceptable. 
Even if AJ Bell did categorically state to Mr H that it could accept all of his assets  which 
Ive no evidence that it did  its terms and conditions allow it to reject holdings as it sees fit. 
As our investigator noted, AJ Bell has the right to make commercial decisions about the 
business its prepared to accept. And this service doesnt have the power to tell it how to 
operate. 
Therefore, even though Mr H feels that he had a verbal confirmation from AJ Bell that it 
could accept all of his PIBS, and despite the written confirmation from 2015 that AJ Bell 
could at that time accept the PIBS with business Y, I cant reasonably say that AJ Bell did 
anything wrong when it told Mr H it couldnt accept that asset on its platform in 2020.
I acknowledge that AJ Bells inability to accept the PIBS with business Y led to the transfer 
taking longer than it would have if it couldve accepted everything. But Im not persuaded 
that it directly caused a delay. 
I say this because the fact of the matter is that AJ Bell was always going to reject the PIBS 
with business Y once it had confirmed the SEDOL references. From what Ive seen, it did 
what it could to access the SEDOL references as soon as possible. And once it had received 
them, it reviewed them and informed Mr H of its decision to reject one of the PIBS in eight 
working days. I consider this is a reasonable timeframe for the work involved. 
In summary, Im satisfied that AJ Bell made a reasonable decision, after receiving the 
SEDOL codes, to reject the PIBS with business Y. And while its clear that the transfer 
couldve completed a lot more quickly if AJ Bell had been able to accept the third PIBS, that 
simply wasnt possible. So I cant reasonably say that AJ Bell caused a delay here.
Mr H is unsure whether AJ Bell or provider J was responsible for not completing the first 
partial transfer in a timely fashion. So Ive gone on to consider whether AJ Bell was 
responsible for any unavoidable delays here.
Did AJ Bell cause any unavoidable delays between February 2020 and July 2020?
After this service issued the final decision on Mr Hs complaint with provider J, he said that 
AJ Bell had provided instruction for a partial transfer on 10 February 2020 which provider J 
then failed to action. He said this was because provider J felt that he wanted to carry out a 
full transfer, which although true, needed to be carried out in two tranches. He also said that 
since the partial transfer instruction had been issued, all parties were waiting on provider J to 
process the transfer. 
Mr H has also told this service that administrator C and AJ Bell were trying to progress the 
transfer in February 2022. But that provider J was holding them up. Our investigator felt that with one exception, AJ Bell had processed or passed on 
documentation within a reasonable timescale. And that itd been proactive in chasing for 
responses when necessary. She felt that the exception was that AJ Bell had taken longer 
than expected to return provider Js discharge form. But she wasnt persuaded that this had 
had any real impact on the progress of the transfer.
From what Ive seen, AJ Bell understood that Mr H had decided to go ahead with a partial 
transfer, after an email exchange with him in early February 2020. So it sent an instruction 
for a partial transfer to provider J on 10 February 2020. 
However, there seems to have been some confusion caused by Mr Hs decision to try to sell 
his PIBS with business Y so that he could then transfer the full value of his pension to AJ 
Bell. I agree with our investigator that it isnt clear that AJ Bell understood this. 
AJ Bell dont appear to have sent the transfer discharge form alongside its partial transfer 
instruction on 10 February 2020. Mr Hs notes show that this was eventually sent on 9 March 
2020. 
Mr Hs detailed notes also show that provider J only told AJ Bell that it couldnt proceed until 
AJ Bell had accepted the transfer on 3 March 2020. And on 6 March 2020, that AJ Bell 
hadnt completed the forms properly. Mr H said he was told that the only thing missing on the 
forms was the SEDOL codes, which administrator C had now provided. He also said that 
hed been told on 9 March 2020 that the receiving scheme section of the discharge form 
hadnt been completed. But Mr Hs notes also recorded that AJ Bell had felt itd done 
everything provider J had previously requested of it.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that even if AJ Bell had sent the 
discharge form with its 10 February 2020 email, provider J would still have needed to 
confirm if the transfer was going to progress on a full or partial basis. As this issue wasnt 
resolved for some time, Im not persuaded that the failure to include the discharge form with 
the 10 February 2020 partial transfer instruction caused any delay to the transfer process. 
Im sorry that Mr Hs transfer took longer than he wanted it to. But Ive not found sufficient 
evidence that AJ Bell caused unavoidable delays. Therefore I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman