DRN-4449942
The complaint
Mr P has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund him for a transaction he didnt 
authorise. He also complains about the service he received from Starling Bank Limited when 
he reported the transaction to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr P authorised payment from his Starling account for an item costing £37.75. Upon arrival 
of the item, he noted it was faulty so he initiated the replacement procedure through the 
merchants app. The replacement procedure required Mr P to return the faulty item and the 
merchant to send a replacement. He received the replacement from the merchant, but the 
merchant said it didnt receive the return, so it charged him a further £37.75. 
When Mr P noticed the second transaction he contacted Starling to tell it the transaction was 
fraudulent and to ask it to raise a chargeback request under Mastercards chargeback 
scheme. During the call with Starling, he told it the merchant had said it hadnt made the 
charge.
Starling agreed to raise a chargeback dispute with the merchant. It refunded the payment 
pending the outcome of the dispute, explaining that in line with Mastercards chargeback 
rules, the merchant had 60 days to challenge the decision. It also said that depending on the 
evidence the merchant sent, it might mean it couldnt continue with the claim. If that 
happened, it would need to take the money back out of his account.
On 29 June 2023, Starling told Mr P the merchant had contested the fraud claim on the 
grounds that the transaction was authorised and, based on the evidence it had received, it 
was unable to continue the dispute through Mastercards chargeback process.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and so he complained to Starling about the outcome of his claim. He 
also said its agents had been rude to him. But Starling didnt uphold his complaint. It said it 
could have reviewed the claim with its retail team, but Mr P had challenged the transaction 
as fraudulent and it was unable to continue with the dispute through Mastercard as there 
was no evidence the transaction was fraudulent. It said it had followed its policy and 
guidelines in its assessment of the payment and its agents had acted professionally and in 
line with its service levels.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service arguing the merchant had 
produced insufficient evidence. He said the outcome was against the T&Cs of his account 
and the Mastercard Fraud Guarantee and Starling had failed to prevent unauthorised use of 
his card. He said that upon receipt of the replacement item, the faulty item was repackaged 
and dispatched the same day using a barcode produced on the app.
Mr P said Starling had failed to carry out a full fact find in respect of the chargeback or to 
assign a complaint investigator with sufficient training to ensure that correct processes were 
followed. He said the person who dealt with the complaint wasnt trained to deal with fraud or 
chargeback and that she had just contacted the members of staff who dealt with the 
chargeback to ask if they had followed the correct process. 
He said hed lost 20 hours of billable time dealing with the chargeback and associated 
complaints to Starling and that payments out of his account had been declined due to the 
negative balance resulting from the transaction. He said he wanted Starling to refund the 
disputed transaction, and to provide an apology and £300 compensation for the time spent 
dealing with the complaint.
Starling said Mr P had said the transaction wasnt authorised so a chargeback dispute was 
raised and his account was credited with the disputed funds. The merchant contested the 
chargeback and the dispute wasnt continued as there was no evidence the transaction was 
fraudulent. It said Mr P didnt tell it about the return of the damaged item when he first 
disputed the payment, so a chargeback was raised under no cardholder authorisation. It said 
Mr P knew about the transaction, so this should have been mentioned when he reported it 
as fraudulent.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted the merchants 
return policy states that faulty products must be returned within 30 days to avoid being 
charged for keeping both the original and replacement items. She accepted Mr P had 
received the replacement product and she said there was no evidence that the faulty item 
was returned, so she didnt think it was unreasonable for the merchant to have charged Mr P 
for the replacement item.
She was also satisfied that Starling had correctly carried out the chargeback dispute based 
on Mr Ps initial submission that the transaction was fraudulent and as he hadnt provided 
any evidence that he had returned the faulty product, so there was no prospect of a 
successful chargeback.
Finally, our investigator didnt think Starling had made any mistakes while investigating the 
complaint. She was satisfied the disputes team dealt with the complaint and Starlings staff 
were polite and professional on the phone. She said its not for the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to determine how businesses run investigations and she wouldnt be awarding any 
compensation.
Mr P has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He maintains he did 
return the faulty item, Starling failed to carry out an independent review of the chargeback 
process and he wasnt dealing with the disputes team.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to our investigator. I know Mr P feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why.
Since our investigator issued her view, Starling has agreed to refund Mr P £37.57 plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of the transaction until the date of refund as a gesture of 
goodwill. Because of this, I havent considered whether it acted fairly and reasonably in 
choosing not to pursue the chargeback dispute when the merchant contested the claim.Mr P is unhappy that payments were declined when Starling took the money back out of his 
account. In order to raise a chargeback in this particular case, Starling needed to cite one of 
the specific reasons set out in the scheme rules. In this case it challenged the transaction as 
fraudulent and Im satisfied it did this based on what Mr P told it when he first disputed the 
transaction. And as the merchant contested the chargeback claim on the grounds the 
transaction was authorised and approved, Im satisfied Starling was unable to continue with 
the dispute because there was no evidence the transaction was made fraudulently. 
Im also satisfied that Mr P was told at the start of the chargeback process that if the 
merchant challenged the dispute, Starling might have to take the money back that it had 
credited to his account. So, I dont accept its Starlings fault that payments were declined 
from the account around the time if took the money back.
Mr P has said that Starlings staff were rude to him, but I havent seen any evidence of that. 
And I dont hold it responsible for the time he chose to spend dealing with the matter 
because, as Ive explained, Im satisfied that Starlings decision to challenge the transaction 
as fraudulent was reasonable based on what Mr P said when he first contacted it to report 
the disputed transaction.  
Finally, I understand that Mr P has concerns about Starlings investigation of his complaint, 
but I havent seen any failings in the handling of the initial claim or the subsequent complaint 
and its not for me to comment on how it trains its staff.
Overall, I dont think Starling handled this matter poorly, so I dont think it needs to do 
anything else to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman