DRN-2022974
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, which
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) says started in 1988. Mrs C, on behalf of herself and the estate
of the late Mr C says Lloyds mis-sold the PPI.
For ease, which I hope will not offend Mrs C, I will mainly refer to this as Mrs C's complaint
unless it is more helpful to give the complaint its full title.
What happened
Briefly:
In 1972 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage to buy their home. Over the course of several
years they borrowed more money by way of further advances to the mortgage. According to
Lloyds' records Mr and Mrs C first took out PPI with a further advance in 1988. It says they
did so again with further borrowings in 1990, 1992, 1994 and 1996. I will expand on this
further below.
In summary the policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs C's mortgage payments (it's not
clear what the benefit amount was) in the event they couldn't work because of accident,
sickness or unemployment. Because of the passage of time, Lloyds' doesn't know how the
policy was set up - but it's assumed the policy was in joint names established on a
50/50 benefit split basis as would typically be the case. The policy would pay out for up to
12 months per claim and according to Lloyds' records it cost around £13 a month at the
outset.
At the time of the sales Mr and Mrs C were both employed, and entitled to what Mrs C has
described as excellent health and employment benefits - Mrs C says she had at least six
months' full sick pay. She said they always had savings available and both her and Mr C
were in good health at the time
Lloyds' records showed the PPI premiums were paid up until 2000.
I issued my provisional decision of June 2020 in which I said I was unlikely to uphold Mrs Cs 
mis-selling complaint. Both parties have seen a copy of my provisional decision and 
provided their responses to it.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs C said that she didnt feel she could add anything more. But she said that her 
recollection of events was what happened  and she feels its simply her word against 
Lloyds. Mrs C questioned my likely explanation of how the policy was cancelled  
she says she did not cancel it and asks if Lloyds has evidence that it ended in 2000. She 
asks what wouldve happened if she needed to claim on the policy after 2000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs C's complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C again, but Ive not been persuaded to change 
my mind - Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
It's important to stress that if it was the case that Mr and Mrs first took out PPI in 1988 (I will 
expand on this below) this pre-dates the first industry code of practice and guidance 
produced by the Association of British Insurers (ABI)  the ABI Code for all intermediaries 
selling general insurance. This was first issued in 1989.
There are now specific rules in place for businesses selling PPI. And while there is much in
common with these and the original code of practice, I must not judge this case by these
more modern standards. My considerations for a sale of PPI in 1988 are confined to
common law standards and what I consider to have been good practice at the time. In broad 
terms I think this means that if Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs C it needed to do so with
reasonable care and skill. And in terms of the information it provided, it shouldve refrained
from making material misrepresentations about the policy. I will address this in more detail
below.
when did Mr and Mrs C take out PPI?
I can see that, when first making her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mrs C
said she believed the policy started when the mortgage began in 1972. But Lloyds says its
records show the first PPI premium was charged in 1988.
I don't think Mr and Mrs C were likely sold a PPI product when their mortgage started in
1972 - these types of policies were typically introduced in the late 1980's / early 1990's in
response to changes to state mortgage aid, which reduced the level of state benefits
available to mortgage customers. So a start date of 1988 is more plausible.
Mr and Mrs C borrowed extra money in 1988 and it is at this point that Lloyds says they first
took out PPI. Lloyds also says sales occurred (the policy was amended / increased) to cover
other borrowings in 1990, 1992, 1994 and 1996. But the evidence as a whole does not 
support this. I say this for the following reasons:
I've not seen any evidence to support a sale of PPI in 1992
both the 1994 and 1996 internal loan assessment records have a 'not applicable' 
crossed through them in the 'Sales' section, which included reference to PPI.
The 1996 loan assessment record explicitly says 'No sale' next to the PPI box and 
the PPI section in the 1996 loan application is blank.
most significantly in my view, Lloyds says Mr and Mrs C's PPI premium remained 
unchanged up until 1997 - I would've expected this to increase at each point if the 
policy's benefit level was amended to match the corresponding increase in 
borrowing.
while the premium did increase in 1997, this doesn't correspond with any additional 
borrowing. So, I think either Mr and Mrs C amended the level of cover at this time, or 
it was due to an increase in the pricing of the policy.
It's not always easy to piece together the precise sequence of events based on records andevidence from a long time ago. And this is one such case. But based on the evidence 
provided I think there was only one sale of PPI. And for the reasons which I will expand on 
below, I consider the likely sale date is 1988.
did Mr and Mrs C have a choice about PPI?
did they agree to take it out?
Mrs C says it was not made clear that PPI didn't have to be taken out when they first
borrowed more money in 1988 - she says at this point they were 16 years into the mortgage
and the outstanding balance wasn't large. I've therefore considered this point carefully.
Having done so, I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds more likely than not misrepresented
the policy as being a condition of the lending or that Mr and Mrs C didn't agree to take it out.
Perhaps surprisingly given the passage of time, Lloyds still has some of the paperwork
completed at the time Mr and Mrs C borrowed money from them. And this includes the
further loan application in 1988.
Looking at this, on the face of it, it doesn't appear to refer to PPI. But looking at it alongside
the 1990 application, it seems that the format and layout of the two applications are identical
- the only difference with the 1990 copy is that at the very top of the second page there is a
separate section titled 'Payment Protection'. It says here next to a tick box: 'Please tick if
required.' And there is a tick in the box (I'll discuss this further below.)
It's possible that the 1988 application also had this section. I say this because the photocopy
of the second page is angled to the right, so the very top of the page (where the PPI section
is on the 1990 copy) might may have been cut off from the copy.
On the other hand, it's possible the application copy is complete and PPI wasn't made
available or in fact taken out at this point. The 1990 application has a tick in the PPI box, so
this might've been the point at which the cover started - not 1988 as Lloyds says.
But of the two possibilities, and taking into account what Lloyds says it records show about
when the first premium was charged, I think on balance the 1988 application was the same
as the later one with a PPI section at the top of the second page. And I think it was at this
point that Mr and Mrs C likely took out PPI by ticking the required box. The application didn't
say or imply it had to be taken out. And I've not seen anything else to support the view that
Mr and Mrs C were told or given the impression they had to have it.
So taking everything into account, including the fact that things happened over thirty years
ago, I think it's more likely than not Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didn't have to
have PPI and that they chose to take it out.
I'm mindful that this doesn't answer the question as to why if Mr and Mrs C chose to also
take out PPI in 1990, the premium didn't increase in line with an increased benefit to protect
the additional borrowing. Perhaps they changed their mind before the monies were drawn
down. But either way, I think the evidence still supports there only being one sale point for
me to consider.
the advice
Lloyds says that, because things likely happened during a branch meeting, it recommended
the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. And while Ive not seen anything to support this, because it
doesn't disadvantage them in any way  if anything its more favourable to them  Im happyto consider this was an advised sale.
This means Lloyds had to advise with reasonable care and skill - to essentially recommend a
policy that was right or appropriate for Mr and Mrs C. Given the limited evidence, I don't
know what steps Lloyds took when it advised Mr and Mrs C. But based on what Ive seen of
their circumstances at the time, I don't think it was inappropriate for them. 
For example, they were both eligible for the cover; they weren't affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances; and despite their existing means, I still think they had a need for 
the cover. The policy would've paid out in addition to Mr and/or Mrs C's sick pay - and for 
longer than I think either of them would've received full sick pay for. 
So I think the policy could've been useful to them if the insured risks became a reality. As 
such I don't think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it.
the information
I've already said that Lloyds has some of the paperwork from the time. But overall there's still
limited information about what took place and how the sale came about - what evidence
there is described the policy as 'Payment Protection Insurance' and it appears to have 
operated as intended.
As such I've not seen anything which leads me to conclude that Lloyds materially
misrepresented the policy to the extent that it induced Mr and Mrs C into buying it when they
wouldn't otherwise have done.
conclusion
In light of my findings above, I find Mrs C and the estate of Mr C have not lost
out to the extent that Lloyds has to pay back all of the cost of PPI. But Lloyds has paid back
some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because it didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that's fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said  both in response to the adjudicator's 
assessment and my provisional decision. But these points dont change my decision.
Mrs C says her complaint is about Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society - not Lloyds.
But I'm satisfied Lloyds is responsible for the complaint having taken over the business of
the lender some time ago.
Mrs C says the PPI was never a separate payment to the mortgage, so they didn't know
what the actual payment was after any amendment.
It wasn't unusual at the time for lenders to include PPI premiums within one overall mortgage
payment paid by either by direct debit or standing order. But this doesn't automatically mean
the cost was hidden at the outset. The limited evidence doesn't tell me how Lloyds disclosed
the cost to Mr and Mrs C at the time. But I don't think they would've agreed to go ahead
without some idea of the cost. And I've not seen enough to conclude Lloyds misrepresentedthe cost to them. I'm also mindful that at around £13 a month, it wasn't in my view a
significant amount.
As to the various amendments - as I said above, I'm not persuaded that there were
amendments - certainly nothing which appears to have prompted an increase in the
premium. It looks like the premium and therefore the level of cover remained the same -
notwithstanding the cost rise in 1997.
Finally, Mrs C has questioned again why the policy stopped in 2000 and who cancelled it. As 
I said in my provisional decision, unfortunately Lloyds' records aren't detailed enough for me 
to answer this with the clarity and certainty Mrs C understandably seeks. Lloyds simply has 
no record of a further premium being paid beyond 2000, so it has assumed  reasonably in 
my opinion  that this is when the policy ended. This means that Lloyds wouldnt have likely 
considered a claim on the policy beyond this point.
Once again, I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, but for the reasons I've
detailed above, I don't uphold her mis-selling complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs C and the estate of the late Mr Cs 
mis-sale complaint. So Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back to Mrs C all the PPI 
premiums paid.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done this, so Lloyds 
Bank PLC doesnt have to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C  on behalf 
of herself and that of the estate of Mr C - to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2020.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman