DRN-3260447
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) paid out an 
excessive amount on a third-party claim under his motor insurance policy, and that the claim 
has affected his insurance record.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr Bs vehicle was unfortunately involved in an accident when it rolled from a 
parked position into another parked vehicle. This caused damage to the third-party vehicle. 
Mr B was insured with Advantage at the relevant time. In May 2021, Advantage received a 
claim from the third-partys insurance provider. The total cost of the third-party claim, 
including vehicle hire, amounted to approximately £4,000.
Advantage accepted liability and recorded this as a fault claim against Mr Bs policy. It 
considered the costs to repair the third-party vehicle and associated costs to be satisfactory 
and authorised and paid for the repairs to be completed. Mr Bs driving records were then 
updated.
Mr B complained to Advantage as he felt that he wasnt responsible for the incident and that 
the third-party vehicle was already damaged prior to the collision. He was also unhappy that 
Advantage paid £4,000 as he was sure that the repairs should cost much less. He also 
made certain allegations regarding the third-party and the third-party vehicle. Advantage 
responded to say that it had acted fairly and reasonably within the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Mr B remained dissatisfied and he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and came to the view that Advantage hadnt acted in 
an unfair or unreasonable manner. She said that Mr B was responsible for his vehicle and 
had not been able to provide any evidence to show that a separate third-party had collided 
with his vehicle first. She considered that, as Mr Bs vehicle collided with another vehicle, it 
was not unreasonable for Advantage to hold Mr B at fault and to pay for repairs to the third-
party vehicle. As to the repair costs and associated costs themselves, on review she felt that 
Advantage had acted fairly in paying them based on the detailed information provided. The 
investigator also concluded that Advantage correctly recorded this as a fault claim against 
Mr Bs policy.
Mr B remains unhappy and the matter has been referred to me to come to a final decision in 
my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service is to consider whether Advantage has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner in applying the terms and conditions of its policy in accordance with appropriate 
insurance industry practice. I consider that it has done so, and Ill explain the reasons for 
this.
The policy terms of Mr Bs policy terms are the starting point for this decision. Its standard 
practice for insurance policies to include a provision which allows an insurer to handle claims 
in a way which it considers appropriate. This policy is no exception, and the terms and 
conditions here include the following; - 
Your insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim... In 
circumstances where it is considered appropriate your insurer will be entitled to admit liability 
on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under the Policy. Such admissions may 
be made prior to or after the commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to 
give rise to a claim under the Policy.
Advantage noted that there was no dispute that Mr Bs car had collided with the third-party 
vehicle. It said that it didnt find the claim to be excessive and that it included standard repair 
costs, third parties excess, a hire vehicle and fees. It thought that the actual repair costs 
were close to what Mr B felt they should be. 
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Advantage said that it had asked Mr B for further 
evidence regarding his allegation that a third vehicle was involved, however that Mr B was 
unable to supply such evidence. It noted that Mr B had initially offered to pay for the third-
party damage, however the third-party went through their own insurer and due to the costs 
claimed for, Mr B then referred his claim to Advantage. As to Mr Bs insurance record and 
the cost of future insurance, Advantage said that, as the incident had occurred, this couldnt 
be removed from Mr Bs insurance record. It said the impact of this incident on Mr Bs 
premium was dependent on how future insurers assessed the risk.
In its further response to Mr B, Advantage advised; - that the vehicle would have been 
assessed and only the relevant work would have been completed to indemnify the driver
As the other vehicle was parked, unattended and did not move, we cannot hold them 
responsible. I understand that you were not physically in your vehicle but as your vehicle has 
moved, which is the cause of the contact between the 2 vehicles, the costs would reflect on 
your insurance policy and show on your driving history as a fault claim for the next 5 years. 
As this is the correct process, I can confirm that the incident will not be removed from your 
records and I will not be changing my decision.
Mr B claimed that an unknown third-party had hit his vehicle which then shunted it into the 
vehicle of the third-party who claimed on his policy. He said that the third-party had also 
mentioned a delivery van parked in the vicinity. He confirmed that he had experienced no 
issues with the hand-break and the vehicle had passed its recent MOT. 
Mr B believed that he wasnt at fault as he was not in his vehicle at the time of the collision. 
He said his car only moved 4/5 metres and he didnt think it was possible for his car, which 
had no damage, to cause so much damage to a robust vehicle of the third-party vehicle type. 
He considered that there was pre-accident damage to the third-party vehicle and that cable-
ties from previous damage were visible. He considered that the vehicle had been put back 
into a better condition than it was before the accident. He thought the work would cost £600-
£700 and that a brand-new bumper would only have cost £1,500 and therefore didnt 
consider that a full investigation had been carried out. He was particularly concerned that if 
this incident remained on his record for five years, it would increase his premiums and could 
affect his work even though it had nothing to do with his driving record. 
Having carefully considered both the evidence supplied by Mr B and the evidence supplied 
by Advantage, Im satisfied that Mr Bs vehicle collided with the third-party vehicle. Im also 
satisfied that this caused damage to the third-party vehicle as Mr B had offered to arrange for these repairs to be carried out. On the balance, I dont consider that his car was struck by 
another vehicle, and Mr B has said that there was no damage to his own vehicle.
As to the extent of the damage caused by this collision, Ive looked carefully at the itemised 
list of works carried out to the third-party vehicle and I note that these costs are within the 
range expected by Mr B. Settlement of a claim for repairs, use of a hire car and also 
incidental costs, is not unfair or unreasonable and are standard claim costs. I cant say that 
Advantage has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner therefore in settling the claim for 
the amount claimed by the third-party
I appreciate that this unfortunate incident has been upsetting for Mr B and that he is worried 
about the impact this will have on his insurance record, the cost of future insurance and 
possibly on his work. Having said this, a fault claim on an insurance record doesnt 
necessarily denote blame or a poor driving record. It simply means that the policyholder 
was liable for damage to third-party property due to the circumstances of an accident and 
that his insurer has had to pay out.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Advantage acted in a fair and reasonable manner under the 
terms of the insurance policy in settling the third-party claim and noting the matter on Mr Bs 
insurance record and I dont require Advantage to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and I dont require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman