DRN-2430892
The complaint
Mr L complains that Stagemount Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr L took out one loan for £600 with Stagemount in April 2018. Mr L agreed to repay the 
loan over 6 monthly instalments of £187.52. Mr L says that at the time of taking out the loan 
he was struggling with a number of other short-term loans and was gambling. He wasnt able 
to repay what he borrowed. Mr L says that proper checks wouldve revealed that he was 
struggling, and the money should never have been lent.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He concluded that Stagemount didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mr L and didnt do anything 
wrong. 
Mr L didnt agree and said in summary that the business had a legal obligation to carry out 
appropriate affordability checks and ensure that the loan was affordable and sustainable for 
him.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website so Im not going to 
repeat them in this decision.
Stagemount needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Stagemount should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Stagemount did a number of checks before it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. It verified his income by asking for a copy of his payslip. 
And it then used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr L had left 
over each month. Stagemount also used a credit reference agency to gather some more 
information about Mr Ls financial situation at that time and related it to the information he 
had provided in his application.
Mr L has told our service that his finances were under significant pressure at the time he 
applied for the loan with Stagemount and that it should have picked up on this. But this was 
the first time Mr L had approached Stagemount for a loan for a significant period of time from 
what I have seen. I dont think there was any reason for Stagemount to doubt the information 
Mr L had provided about his income and expenditure.
In addition, I have seen results from the credit checks that Stagemount carried out at the 
time. These checks failed to show any information that might have suggested Mr L was 
having problems managing his money. The checks didnt show any concerning information 
such as a reliance on other short-term loans, or delinquent or defaulted accounts.
In saying that I think it is important to note that, generally, the information a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr L 
says that he was having problems managing his money at the time the loan was granted but 
this was not reflected in the credit search information collated by Stagemount at the time.
The repayments that Mr L had agreed to make on his loan were relatively modest compared 
to the disposable income that hed declared to Stagemount. And based on what he had told 
Stagemount and the credit checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily 
affordable. So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time, and his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Stagemount to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I dont think Stagemount was 
wrong to give this loan to Mr L.
I dont doubt that Mr L was in difficulty and I understand why he provided inaccurate 
information about his circumstances. But based on all of the information available to 
Stagemount at that point, there was no reason for it to doubt what Mr L was saying about his 
finances or ask for the type of information, such as bank statements, that would have 
revealed the difficulty Mr L was in.
Stagemount has agreed to remove any negative information from Mr Ls credit file as a 
gesture of good will which I consider is fair and reasonable and more than I can ask it to do 
in the circumstances.    My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman