DRN-3973335
The complaint
Mr G complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd wont release funds from his account. 
What happened
Mr G says that after being a private seller on eBay for 19 years, he was told he would need 
to provide a full copy of his passport or photo driving licence, his sellers account would be 
restricted. He says he was given to 30 September 2022 to comply with eBays request.
Mr G was concerned about providing photographic ID to eBay for security reasons. He 
assumed any transactions completed prior to the cut-off date eBay had given would be okay. 
He sold six items from 7 September to 28 September with a total net value of around £240. 
eBay allowed the transactions to go through but said it wouldnt release the payments to    
Mr G until he provided the ID it had requested.
 
Mr G says he spoke to several eBay agents and one told him a government letter showing 
his name and address would suffice. Mr G provided a letter from the DWP which included 
his national insurance number but was told this wasnt acceptable. 
Mr G says he asked eBay to close his accounts and pay him what he was owed or change 
the balance to a credit he could use for eBay purchases. However, eBay didnt agree. So, Mr 
G asked our service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought eBay had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of its managed 
payment service.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators outcome. In summary, Mr G felt hed already provided 
eBay with sufficient proof of his identity. He didnt think it was fair that all other stages of the 
eBay transaction were allowed to proceed, apart from the last  making the payment. He 
questioned if this was a form of coercion to make him comply. He was concerned about his 
privacy and security being affected by eBay having his photo image. 
Mr G also commented that some eBay sellers arent currently subject to the terms eBay has 
applied because not everyone has changed to eBays managed payments. He said eBay 
was choosing to apply the terms rather than being legally required to and in doing so, it was 
being selective of which part of the transactions the terms were applied to.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
eBay says Mr G joined its managed payments service in October 2021. In doing so, he 
would have agreed to its payments terms of use, which say a seller must:
Provide us with all information which we may require for purposes that include: verifying 
your identity, complying with applicable anti-laundering and sanctions screening obligations, 
allowing us to manage settlements of your transaction proceeds, and assessing fraud and 
risk. If you are an individual, this information may include, without limitation, your full name, 
address, phone number, date of birth, taxpayer identification number, bank account 
information and a form of government-issued identification (e.g., a copy of your identity card 
or drivers license.
The terms of use go on to say that eBay may place a hold on a sellers funds if we have 
reason to believe there is an increased risk associated with the provision of our Payment 
Services or with a certain Managed Payment transaction, for example if we cannot verify 
your identityWe may also cancel or freeze the settlement of your proceeds as necessary 
to comply with our legal obligations in connection with fraud prevention, risk management, or 
regulatory compliance. Any hold placed on your funds will be lifted when the issue is 
resolved.
I appreciate Mr G feels he had already provided sufficient proof of his identity. However, 
eBays website says: If we cant verify your identity using the information above, we may 
need you to send us a photo of a valid form of identification
We accept the following forms of valid identification:
Drivers license
Passport
Mr G says he didnt want to provide photographic identification to eBay for security reasons. 
So, it doesnt appear to be the case that hes unable to provide the documents eBay 
requested.
 
Mr G has commented that eBay selectively applies its terms by allowing sellers to complete 
their part of the transaction but demands photo ID before releasing payments. Hes also 
commented that some eBay sellers arent subjected to the same terms because they havent 
yet switched over to eBays managed payments service. 
eBay Commerce UK Ltd is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority as a payment 
service provider. This means it has an obligation to comply with money laundering 
regulations and legislation, which include verifying a customers identity. 
Businesses are required to take a risk-based approach to money laundering and have 
suitable systems and processes in place. The regulations arent prescriptive and so its up to 
a business to put in place the appropriate measures. So, it would be up to eBay to decide 
the circumstances in which to require documentation to verify a customers identity.
Mr G says he was given up to 30 September 2022 to comply with eBays request to provide 
photo ID. He thought transactions that went ahead prior to that date would go through. 
However, hes provided a copy of an email from eBay dated 14 September 2022, which 
says:
We recently asked you to review and update some details on your eBay account. Looks like 
you havent made any updates yet. Your payouts will be on hold until you fix this. Please do 
this by 2022-10-05 to get your account back in good standing.So, Im satisfied that eBay made it clear that payments were on hold, prior to the 
transactions carried out on 27 and 28 September. 
eBay says it is willing to give Mr G access to his funds once he provides the requested 
documentation. So, if he wants to provide this now, he can. But, as he doesnt appear to 
have provided the ID as yet, I cant ask eBay to do anything more. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G, but Im satisfied that eBay has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with its terms of use.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman