DRN-2769362
The complaint
Miss P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has acted unreasonably when she 
surrendered her with-profits investment bond in July 2020. She says it changed the rate of 
the final bonus, meaning Aviva has paid a surrender value that was less than the value given 
on her most recent statement of March 2020.
To resolve her complaint, Miss P wants Aviva to honour the March 2020 valuation and make 
good the difference she has lost, which equates to £2,316.84. 
What happened
Miss P took out a Norwich Union (now Aviva) With-Profit Bond in March 2002. 
Following the outbreak of coronavirus, Miss P says she began to receive letters from some 
of the financial institutions she had relationships with regarding reductions to interest rates. 
She said she did not hear from Aviva about the bond, but she called it anyway on 15 July 
2020. She was told the value of her policy including the final bonus was £31,610.98.  
Miss P says she was shocked about the value because her most recent annual statement 
had given a surrender value of £33,931.87 as at 23 March 2020. She told Aviva as such. It 
confirmed it had since decided to revise final bonus rates in May 2020. Miss P was 
particularly upset as she felt that it should have informed its policyholders about that.   
The following day when speaking to Aviva about making a complaint, Miss P decided to 
surrender the policy. She was paid £31,615.03 on 21 July 2020. 
Aviva rejected the complaint in August 2020. It explained to Miss P how regular bonuses 
worked under the policy. It also explained that final bonus rates werent guaranteed. As the 
investment markets suffered due to the global pandemic and global oil prices, Aviva took the 
decision to implement a bonus rate review that caused a fall in final bonuses and therefore in 
projected policy values if those policies were surrendered before the next review. 
It said that it could not have told Miss P or any other customer in advance of the decision, 
because it was commercially sensitive information. Aviva was therefore only able to explain 
the decision of its with-profits committee once the change was made. It couldnt pay Miss P 
the figure of March 2020, as that wasnt the true value of the bond when it was surrendered. 
An investigator from this service considered the complaint but didnt think it should succeed. 
She recognised Miss P was disappointed in the change in the values between the two dates 
but Aviva had explained that an internal review of final bonus rates had taken place in May 
2020  and Aviva was entitled under the policy terms to decide what final bonus rates would 
apply. She also explained how Aviva conducted reviews and that its with-profits committee 
published the result of bonus reviews annually. 
Miss P said she didnt agree. The way Aviva had explained the bonuses to her made it 
sound as though it was holding back some profits for other customers, rather than paying 
her what she was entitled to. She said that she also felt that the advice it had given her to 
bring the matter to this service made it appear that had accepted a degree of fault.  
Our investigator explained to Miss P that whilst Aviva might receive more complaints after it 
has decided to announce a reduction in final bonus rates, it doesnt mean that it has treated 
Miss P unfairly in the circumstances. Further, she pointed out that under the rules applying 
to this service, Aviva had to explain that Miss P had a right to bring the complaint here. 
Otherwise, the investigator was not persuaded to change her view on the complaint. 
Miss P therefore asked that the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed everything before me, I dont believe this complaint should 
succeed. I realise this wont be what Miss P has hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons for 
reaching this conclusion below.  
I can see that Miss P has been supplied with key features information when she began her 
policy, along with a terms and conditions document and annual statements which also give 
information about how the policy operated. 
Though I know our investigator has explained how Miss Ps policy worked, I think it would be 
helpful if I offered a further explanation. The type of investment Miss P held operated within 
a with-profits fund rather than a unit-linked fund (which is completely open to market 
conditions). A with-profits fund builds a guaranteed value over its term, because once 
bonuses are added, these cannot usually be removed. There is a degree of shielding to the 
fluctuations of market conditions that would otherwise be experienced with a unit-linked fund.   
The bonuses I refer to above are reviewed annually by Aviva for all the polices within the 
with-profits fund and consist of both regular bonuses and additional bonuses. At the time of 
the sale, Miss P was given a key features booklet which explained how they worked, noting:
Bonus rates are decided by Norwich Union and are reviewed at least once a year, 
usually on 31 December, taking into account the actual or anticipated performance of 
the fund. The regular bonus takes into account Norwich Union's view of future 
investment returns. The additional bonus takes account of the performance of the 
shares the fund invests in.
The key features information did set out the warning that an investor could receive less than 
he or she paid in if the effect of charges, investment performance or withdrawals adversely 
affect the bond, but this didnt happen in Miss Ps case, and she did not receive a market 
value reduction on surrender for example. 
The key features and terms and conditions also give clear explanations about final bonuses 
 the third type of bonus. The terms and conditions at section 2(g) say:
On cancellation of Units in a With-Profit Fund or a With-Profit Income Fund, the 
Company may pay a Final Bonus in accordance with the Final Bonus Scales, if any, 
applicable at the date of cancellation. If the fund contains Units that were allocated at 
different times the latest Units allocated will be cancelled first. Final Bonus Scales will be announced by the Company at least once a year. A description of the factors 
influencing the determination of Final Bonus Scales is available in the Company's 
With-Profits Guide
And, the With-Profits Guide referred to says:
We aim to pay a final bonus to increase the value of your policy at maturity we 
normally review final bonus rates twice a year. However, we will review them more 
frequently if there are large changes in investment markets. Final bonus rates can 
change at any time, arent guaranteed and could be zero. 
Aviva has confirmed its committee reviewed the final bonus scales each July, but because of 
the significant effect of the pandemic on global financial markets, it was necessary to bring 
this forward. Though I know Miss P wasnt aware before she placed her call in July 2020, 
Aviva had issued a communication to its customers entitled With-Profits Customer News - 
Aviva announces with-profits bonus rates reductions released on 6 May 2020. This was 
available on its website, where annual bonus rate announcements were published. 
That document did set out in clear terms that an early review from 15 April had been 
necessary and the effect it would have on policies such as Miss Ps. Aviva explained how 
the pandemic had caused the fastest decline in equity markets on record as efforts to deal 
with the virus had hit economic activity. It also said: 
Key messages
How have the final bonus rate changes impacted policy pay-outs?
The changes to final bonus rates have reduced policy pay-outs in most cases 
by 5% or by 7.5%.  
I realise Miss P wasnt issued a letter about this, and instead Aviva uses its website for key 
communications. But it was accessible for her, and the update does explain why Aviva had 
to undergo an out of cycle review of its bonuses. It gave details of all its funds, including 
Miss Ps.  
In the circumstances, I believe Aviva was able to take a decision about final bonuses, and 
though this has meant Miss Ps surrender value projection of March 2020 was no longer 
valid in July 2020, Aviva was within its remit to make decisions of that nature. This service 
isnt a regulator  that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.  
What we decide is if a business has behaved fairly and reasonably in all of the 
circumstances of a complaint. And I think that the value Aviva paid Miss P did reflect her 
policys performance with bonuses earned, albeit with an amended final bonus. However, 
this was permitted within the terms applying to the bond and I dont think Aviva has done 
anything wrong by paying a surrender value with a reduced final bonus to Miss P. 
My final decision
Im unable to uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman