DRN-1706966
The complaint 
Mr C complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited, trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge), wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr C acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase agreement with 
Northridge. The car was around three years old and had a mileage of 35,500. 
In February 2018, Mr C raised an issue with the supplying dealership about the cars radio. 
The dealership says this was actually due to the coverage of DAB radio rather than a fault 
with the radio.
In July 2018, Mr C raised an issue with the supplying dealership about the cars stop/start 
function, which he said wasnt working as it should when the car was in neutral. The 
dealership agreed to look at the car and, on inspection, found that a glow plug needed 
replacing. After replacing this part, the car was returned to Mr C.
Mr C says that the stop/start function wasnt repaired and continued not to function. He also 
says that, due to personal circumstances, he wasnt able to take the car back to the 
dealership but did book it in for further repairs in May 2019 only for the dealership to cancel 
that appointment. He complained to Northridge that the car had faults with both the stop/start 
system and with the radio. Mr C asked to reject the car.
Northridge didnt uphold his complaint. It queried why Mr C had taken so long to raise his 
complaint, as he had now had the car for over one year. Northridge said the dealership had 
confirmed the stop/start issue had been resolved in July 2018 but acknowledged there was 
an outstanding issue with the infotainment (the radio system) system. However, it said the 
current issue was different to the problem that had occurred in February 2018, which had 
been due to the roll out of DAB radio. A temporary fix had been for the DAB feed to be 
disconnected, but the manufacturer had now rolled out a fix to the problem in the form of a 
re-programme. It asked Mr C to contact the dealership for this to be applied. Northridge 
disagreed the car had been of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr C was unhappy at the response received from Northridge and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended his complaint was partially upheld. 
Mr C supplied this service with video evidence that the stop/start system was not working, 
and our investigator said she didnt think it was clear from the July 2018 job card whether the 
stop/start function had been repaired. In light of the evidence that the fault appeared to be 
continuing she asked Northridge to investigate and repair the issue.
The investigator also said that there had been a worldwide programming issue with DAB 
units, which had affected thousands of cars, but a permanent fix was now available. She 
asked Northridge for this fix to be applied to Mr Cs car. She also recommended £100 
compensation should be paid to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss 
of enjoyment for having the radio issue. She did not think Mr C should be allowed to reject 
the car.
Northridge didnt agree that the car stop/start function hadnt been repaired in July 2018. It 
said the fault had been the glow plug which had been replaced but agreed for the car to be 
returned to the dealership for investigation and repair to the DAB radio system.
The dealership reported that the fault with the stop/start system appeared to be linked to the 
cars battery as, when inspected, it was found to have a low charge. Once the battery had 
been fully re-charged the dealership said the stop/start functioned correctly. The dealership 
said the battery had been replaced in January 2019 by Mr C, and a non-manufacturer 
approved one had been added. It thought the issue with the stop/start system could be due 
to this battery. 
The dealership applied the DAB fix to the cars infotainment system and also carried out a 
health-check on the car.
Mr C said when the car was returned the stop/start system still did not work, and there 
appeared to be a constant drain on the battery, meaning its charge was low. He also 
complained that when the car had been returned the windscreen washer jets werent 
working.
Our investigator issued another view and said looking at the evidence, she was satisfied 
there had been a fault with the car at the point of sale as the stop/start system had not been 
working correctly. However, she thought this fault had been repaired when the glow-plug had 
been replaced, as Mr C hadnt raised further issues with the car until May 2019. Our 
investigator said if the stop/start system had an inherent fault then she wouldnt have 
expected the dealership to have got it working after replacing the glow-plug, and she thought 
it would have been reasonable for Mr C to have complained earlier if the system hadnt been 
repaired.
In regard to the infotainment system the investigator said it was accepted there was an 
issue. But the temporary repair meant that, although DAB couldnt be used the other 
systems such as sat nav, reversing camera all could. She said she thought the temporary 
repair had been fair until the full fix could be applied. The system was now in working order.
Our investigator said she appreciated there still appeared to be issues with the cars 
stop/start system, but she thought this was more likely than not due to the cars battery, 
which had been replaced by Mr C installing a non-manufacturer approved one. In the 
circumstances she said it would be unfair to hold Northridge responsible for issues with the 
battery, as this wasnt the original one fitted when the car had been acquired by Mr C. There 
also appeared to be issues with the battery but again, as this part had been replaced by Mr 
C, she didnt think Northridge could be held responsible for a part it had not supplied to him.
It was acknowledged there was now a fault with the windscreen jet washers, which had 
occurred when the car had been returned by the dealership. This appeared to have been 
due to the washer pipes being fitted incorrectly. Mr C said that the costs of the repairs for 
this fault should be met by Northridge. Our investigator disagreed, saying that there hadnt 
been a fault with the jet washers at the point of sale, and that the issue had arisen after the 
car had been looked at by the dealership when it had undertaken a health-check on the car. 
Therefore, this would be for the dealership and not Northridge to deal with.
Our investigator said she thought that Northridge had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and 
its offer, made during the investigation, to pay £100 compensation for the loss of enjoyment 
due to the DAB issue was reasonable.Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the issues with the stop/start 
had been present before the battery had been replaced, and he had only replaced the 
original battery due to the original one going flat. However, he had now been advised that 
there was an ongoing drain on this battery and that this may be linked to the stop/start 
system. Mr C disputed that the job card from July 2018 confirmed that the repair to the 
stop/start system had been successful. He said that due to personal issues he had to put 
issues with the car on hold for a period of time, which was why there had been a delay on 
his complaint to Northridge. Mr C also said there hadnt been a temporary fix to the radio, 
and this had only been repaired in February 2020.
The complaint has been passed to me as the parties have been unable to reach an 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations. But 
I am not bound by them when looking at what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Northridge is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint about 
their quality. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appears and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
Here the car was three years old and had a mileage of 35,000. So, some issues of 
maintenance and repair would be expected over time. However, Ive seen that Mr C raised 
issues the car a short time after he had acquired it. There was an issue with the radio and 
also with the cars stop/start system.
Northridge says there were two issues with the radio, the first of which was raised in 
February 2018 over the radio cutting out and it was explained this was due to DAB coverage 
at the time. The second issue arose with the infotainment system due to the switchover to 
DAB. I understand from Mr C that this resulted in issues with the cars sat nav, blue tooth 
and reversing camera system. While the manufacturer looked into a fix for this issue a 
temporary work around was recommended of disconnecting the DAB feed. Northridge says 
it was told by the dealership that this temporary fix was offered to Mr C, though it appears 
this may not have been undertaken. Northridge says that it accepts there was reduced 
enjoyment for Mr C with the vehicle due to the DAB issue.
As the DAB switch over caused issues for a number of makes and models of cars I cant 
reasonably say there was a fault with the car due to the problems that arose. Ive seen that 
the manufacturer worked on a fix which was later rolled out and recommended a temporary 
fix in the meantime. Im unclear why the temporary fix wasnt applied to Mr Cs car, but I 
think its likely to be because the dealership hadnt heard from him for several months. Mr C also accepts he didnt raise issues with the car due to is his circumstances at the time. 
However, I dont think I can hold Northridge responsible for the length of time Mr C suffered 
with problems with the cars infotainment system and the impact it had on the sat nav etc, as 
a fix was available had he returned the car to the dealership. So, I think Northridges offer of 
£100 compensation for his loss of enjoyment is fair and reasonable.
Looking next at the stop/start system. Ive seen that any fault with the car will result in the 
stop/start system defaulting to being off. So, this would mean there may not be a fault with 
the stop/start system itself if it isnt functioning. Mr C complained to the dealership that the 
system wasnt working in July 2018, and the car was taken in for investigation. The job card 
says that a fault with a glow plug was found and this was replaced. The job card reports, 
Have tested stop starts in tests with scanner and functions ok wont (sic) activate stop start 
on the road. The dealership says the fault with stop/start system was fixed but Mr C says 
that it wasnt. Mr C says this is corroborated by what has been recorded on the job card.
I dont think the card is clear but, where evidence is missing or contradictory, I have to 
consider what is the most likely thing to have happened. I think if the dealership had found 
an ongoing fault then it would be reasonable for them to raise that with Mr C, and to have 
undertaken further tests. I think its more likely than not that the dealership did get the 
stop/start system to operate correctly and returned the car. I also appreciate that Mr C had 
some difficult personal circumstances to deal with but, if the car had been returned with the 
same problem, I think it would be reasonable to have expected him to raise that within a 
short period of time of the car being returned even if at the time there were some personal 
difficulties to deal with, but I have no evidence Mr C contacted the dealership again for many 
months. 
So, looking at the evidence, I think its more likely than not that the replacing of the glow-plug 
fixed the stop/start issue. And, although this would also mean that there was fault with the 
car at the point of sale, as repairs so soon after the car had been acquired wouldnt be 
reasonably expected, when taking into account its age and mileage) the repair had been 
successful. 
Ive seen that there was issue with the battery running flat in January 2019, and that Mr C 
replaced this with a non-manufacturer approved one. I dont have any evidence that the 
battery change was due to an existing fault with the original one and this is a part which, 
from time to time, will require replacement.  
It has more recently been discovered that the new battery was being drained causing it to 
have a low charge. I havent seen any evidence that this drain wasnt occurring from around 
the time it was installed. Ive also seen that, when the dealership was investigating the car 
again in February 2020, it found that the start/stop system was fully operational once the 
battery had been fully charged.
I understand that the drain on the battery has now been located and fixed and that this 
wasnt linked to the stop/start system. Mr C has reported the issue with the start/stop still 
hasnt been rectified. But I havent seen any evidence that there have been any further 
investigations into this. 
I havent seen any reports that says there was inherent fault with stop/start system. I 
appreciate Mr C says this problem was present before the new battery was fitted, but Im 
satisfied that replacing the glow-plug in July 2018 fixed the issue at that time. I think from the 
evidence Ive seen that it would be fair to say that its more likely than not that the problem 
was due to the drain on the new battery charge. And, as Northridge hadnt supplied that part 
to Mr C, it wouldnt be liable for any problems that then arose from this part. Ive seen that issues with the stop/start system can be due to a number of causes, so, if 
there is another problem with the system, then I think this could be linked either to an 
ongoing issue with the new battery, or from a new cause which has arisen from general wear 
and tear of the car, but which wasnt present at the point of sale. 
I appreciate Mr C is upset by the windscreen washer jets not working when the car was 
returned from the dealership in February 2020. I accept from the repair invoice provided that 
this fault appears to have been caused by the dealership when it carried out a health-check 
on the car. I think its agreed by Mr C that there was no problem with the washer jets before 
the car was taken in, so this isnt a fault that was present from the point of sale.  I cant hold 
Northridge liable for this cost because Northridge didnt request or authorize any work to be 
undertaken to the wipers/washer jets. Northridge had agreed for the stop/start system to be 
investigated, and the DAB issue to be fixed. Problems arising from any other work or repairs 
are a matter for the dealership to sort out with Mr C. 
I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr C but, for the reasons given above, 
Im only partially upholding his complaint. 
Putting things right
Mr C has suffered a loss of enjoyment of the car due to the issues with DAB and the 
infotainment system. Im asking Northridge to pay Mr C £100 compensation to reflect that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance to pay Mr C £100 as compensation for the loss 
of enjoyment due to the DAB issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 01 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman