DRN-2189430
The complaint
This is a complaint that Connells Limited mis-sold Mrs S payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 18 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the sale are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs S has said she was told she had to have PPI to get the mortgage. However, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there is reasonable supporting evidence of 
it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
Also, I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets 
to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to 
say Connells did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Mrs S says, to the best of my recollection the key pieces of information I was provided 
[about] the policy was that it was not optional. Again, it wouldnt be fair to say Connells did 
something wrong unless that evidence was now available.
From the little evidence now surviving, which is essentially samples of the standard PPI 
application form and bank mandate, it would at least have been clear that the PPI was 
something separate from the mortgage, administered by a different company to the lender; 
and it talks about applying for PPI. So, on the little evidence there is, I do think its more 
likely than not the PPI was presented as a choice. And, even if it wasnt, I dont have strong 
enough evidence to fairly show that it was presented as non-optional. 
I think Connells recommended the PPI to Mrs S, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Ss 
particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss situation at the time: 
Its likely Mrs S was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if necessary. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs S received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs S would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs S in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs S would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs S to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming she understood she had a choice  
which I accept she says she didnt).
Its hard to know how well Connells explained the costs and benefits of the policy  though 
the sample document suggests the monthly costs would be set out. But I dont anyway think 
its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether Mrs S took 
the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI 
seem less useful.
Mrs S has said she believes the Plevin case, on unfair commission, means she should 
receive a refund of at least some of her PPI premiums. However, Im satisfied that the rules 
arising from that court judgement dont apply here. The credit agreement itself was with a 
third party, and not Connells. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act, 
and the rules and guidance made by the Financial Conduct Authority about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable here.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman