DRN-2055947
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Telephonica Insurance S.A. didnt amend the surname on her mobile 
phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B had mobile phone insurance with Telephonica. In July 2019, she made a claim on her 
phone insurance. Telephonica accepted the claim and delivered a replacement phone, 
addressed to the surname it had on her account.
Mrs B complained to Telephonica. She said that, in 2016, and again in 2017, she had 
contacted the phone provider asking for the surname on her mobile phone account to be 
changed. She said that because the replacement phone was addressed to her previous 
surname, she faced an embarrassing situation with her in-laws. She accepted she hadnt 
contacted Telephonica to ask it to change the name on the policy, but she said she didnt 
know it was a separate entity from the phone provider.
Telephonica responded to say there was no evidence it had been told Mrs B had changed 
her surname. But Mrs B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service, explaining 
she wanted to be compensated for the embarrassment caused by this incident. 
Our investigator didnt think Telephonica was responsible for her name not having been 
updated on the policy. She noted Mrs B had said shed passed security using her new 
surname but as Telephonica had been unable to produce the call recording, she had no way 
to verify that happened. She explained that while the phone provider might have failed to tell 
Mrs B that Telephonica was a separate entity, this wasnt Telephonicas fault. 
She also said shed seen an email dated 28 July 2019 to Mrs B addressed to her previous 
surname and which was sent following the claim call. Another email was sent on 1 August 
2019 confirming acceptance of the claim and the delivery address. She explained she felt 
this showed the surname on the policy hadnt been updated and should have been enough 
to alert Mrs B to the issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B accepts she notified the phone provider of a change of surname, but she didnt ever 
contact Telephonica. I understand shes frustrated the phone provider didnt tell her 
Telephonica was a separate entity and that she would need to notify it separately, but this 
isnt something I can hold Telephonica responsible for.
Mrs Bs said that when she called Telephonica to tell it about the claim, she passed security 
using her current name and this should have alerted it to the fact there was a problem with 
its records. Unfortunately, theres no call recording available to verify Mrs Bs account of the 
call but I think, on balance, its unlikely Mrs B passed security using a name that didnt match 
her account details.
I also note that following notification of the claim, Telephonica sent an email to Mrs B, 
addressed to her old surname. This supports Telephonicas account that at this point it 
hadnt been told about the change of surname and that it was an opportunity for Mrs B to put 
the issue right before the replacement phone was sent.
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed and that its frustrating her instructions to the phone 
provider werent passed to Telephonica, but Im satisfied the claim was settled and her policy 
details have since been amended and I dont think shes suffered any loss as a result of the 
incident for which Telephonica should provide compensation. 
For the reasons outlined above, I wont be asking Telephonica to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman