DRN-4215875
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about Startline Motor Finance Limiteds decision to lend to him  he 
says the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline to finance the purchase 
of a car. He paid a deposit of £2,500 and borrowed £12,990 over a 60-month term, with 
monthly repayments of £349.85. 
In March 2022 Mr D complained to Startline, saying they shouldnt have lent to him - but they 
didnt uphold his complaint. They said they support applicants who have a lower credit rating 
and said theyd done a proper assessment of affordability before deciding to lend to Mr D. 
Startline said their systems confirmed Mr Ds net monthly income of £4,544. They said he 
was a married tenant and the credit reference agency (CRA) data theyd looked at showed 
he had an acceptable payment history with all accounts being well paid. That included an 
existing hire purchase agreement with monthly instalments of around £350 which was 
required to be settled as a condition of this new agreement. Startline said Mr D had 
previously had some late payments but everything was up to date by the time of the 
application. Finally, theyd used one of the CRAs affordability tools which uses current 
account turnover data to validate declared income.
So, they said, theyd completed a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, identifying no 
material risk of affordability issues. They also said Mr D had been given a warning which 
said he shouldnt sign the agreement unless he was satisfied it would be affordable.
Finally they commented on the circumstances leading to the settlement of the account, 
saying theyd analysed Mr Ds income to determine whether they could support him in light 
of his change in employment in early 2021 but decided they couldnt due to his large 
expenditure on non-priority debts. So they felt theyd carried out the correct level of 
monitoring of the loan. Startline said Mr D had then brought the agreement up to date and 
settled it early, in July 2021. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Startlines response so he brought his complaint to our service. He 
said Startline had been irresponsible in providing him with finance and had failed to conduct 
thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks. 
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint  saying she didnt think 
Startline had carried out proportionate checks. She said if Startline had carried out 
proportionate checks they should have concluded it wasnt responsible to lend to Mr D. So 
she said Startline should refund to Mr D all interest and charges hed paid on the finance 
agreement together with interest at 8%. 
Mr D accepted our investigators view. But Startline werent happy. They reiterated that they 
had carried out proportionate checks and provided more information about the checks theyd 
done. Because Startline didnt agree with our investigator the matters been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain more below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Startline carry out proportionate checks?
Startline verified Mr Ds income using one of the CRAs account turnover tools. They said 
this gave a high confidence that Mr Ds income was in line with what hed told them. And it 
said his income had increased by 3% over the past three months and 10% over the previous 
12 months. 
Startline also looked at Mr Ds credit file and were satisfied that Mr D was managing his 
credit commitments well. The credit file showed 15 active lines of credit, including three 
overdrafts, ten credit cards, one mail order account, and an existing hire purchase which 
was due to be settled. The credit file also showed a high number of lines of credit that had 
been settled  the majority of these were home credit or payday loans. 18 of them had been 
settled in the 12 months leading up to the credit agreement. The majority of Mr Ds credit 
balances were close to their limit, but none were over. And although Mr D had missed some 
payments historically, this wasnt a high number and none were recent.
Startline also said Mr D had confirmed in signing the agreement that the payments were 
affordable and sustainable  but this confirmation doesnt carry any weight when looking at 
the requirements of CONC.
I appreciate Startline were happy with Mr Ds credit file and decided to lend based on the 
information they had. But Im not satisfied they did enough. Mr B was borrowing a large sum 
of money, at a high interest rate, and over a 5-year period. These are all factors set out in 
CONC 5.2A.20R as suggestions that an assessment should be more rigorous. In addition, 
the large number of credit cards, the use of three separate overdrafts, and the number and 
frequency of short-term loans on Mr Ds credit file was an indicator that his borrowing might 
be becoming unsustainable  for example taking on new debt to pay off existing debts.
I appreciate Startline say they also relied on the fact that Mr D was paying off an existing hire 
purchase agreement with no evidence of adverse consequences in his credit file. But his 
repeated use of short term loans and his reliance on overdrafts and credit cards suggests he 
wasnt managing his financial commitments as they were.In light of what the credit file showed, Ive concluded Startlines checks werent proportionate 
and they should have done more.
What would Startline have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Startline finding out more about Mr Ds income, 
expenditure, and credit commitments. I note, for example, that the hire purchase agreement 
said Startline might need further documents as proof of income and gave the following 
examples for a self-employed customer:
Personal bank statement showing income;
HMRC correspondence i.e. self-assessment letter/contract letter; or
Accountant letter/proof of income.
Startline didnt obtain any of these documents from Mr D before agreeing the loan, so in the 
absence of other information Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statements as theyre a good 
reflection of Mr Ds financial circumstances at the time.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ds three bank accounts for the three months preceding his 
application to Startline  April, May and June 2020. Ive not seen any evidence that he had 
any other personal bank accounts. 
The bank statements show that Mr Ds income was not as high as hed told Startline. He was 
paid around £3,800 in April, £3,000 in May, and £2,200 in June by the umbrella company for 
his business  an average of around £3,000 per month. Ive also looked at the transfers from 
Mr Ds business bank account  but over the three months reviewed, the net amount 
transferred to Mr D from his business was only £375. On balance it looks like he was 
borrowing from the business and then repaying it, rather than drawing an income this way. 
The bank statements also show a very high number of transfers between Mr Ds personal 
accounts, receipts from short term lenders, and a high number of receipts from and 
payments to a revolving credit facility. They also show occasional other receipts  these are 
mostly refunds or PayPal credits  which Mr D had told us are because he was selling some 
of his belongings to pay his debts. 
Its not clear to me why the account turnover analysis supported a regular income of £4,544. 
Startline say it excludes irregular amounts to mitigate against the risk of things like loan 
drawdowns and transfers being included. The sheer volume of transfers and loan 
drawdowns may have meant that some of these were assessed as part of Mr Ds regular 
income. But having reviewed Mr Ds statements, Im satisfied £3,000 would be a reasonable 
figure to use for his net monthly income. 
We asked Mr D what his expenditure was at the time and he provided a summary which 
totalled £2,120 for basic essentials including rent, gas and electricity, food, transport, and 
insurances. He added £300 for credit card payments, £350 for other monthly commitments 
including gym membership and childcare, and £300 for loan repayments. So he estimated 
his total financial commitments and cost of living expenditure had been around £3,070 per 
month. 
Reviewing Mr Ds bank statements I was able to confirm his expenditure was broadly in line 
with what hed told us. And his estimate of credit card payments was in line with what wed 
expect given the credit balances on his credit file at the time. In summary, his non-
discretionary expenditure was around the same as his income. This expenditure did include Mr Ds existing car finance (at a similar amount to the new finance agreement), but it left him 
with absolutely no headroom, and likely a small deficit each month. 
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied Startline didnt make a fair lending decision. If theyd 
done proportionate checks it should have been clear to them that Mr D wouldnt be able to 
sustainably make repayments under the agreement. And it follows that they shouldnt have 
lent to him.
Putting things right
As I dont think Startline should have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. Mr D should therefore only have 
to pay the original cash price of the car, being £15,490. Anything Mr D has paid in excess of 
that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ds complaint Startline should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr D has made in excess of £15,490, representing the original 
cash price of the car. They should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If Startline consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mr D a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr D can 
reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited need 
to take the steps Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman