DRN-3886185
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has wrongly increased the balance due on his 
mortgage after he ported it in April 2022.
What happened
Mr L had a mortgage with Barclays. He was selling his property and buying another one in 
April 2022 and porting over his mortgage product. Mr L now finds that his mortgage balance 
increased although there was no additional borrowing. Barclays says that it sent Mr Ls 
solicitors a redemption statement on his old mortgage which included the Early Redemption 
Charge (ERC). An ERC wasnt payable but the solicitors used all the mortgage monies 
they received including the amount for the ERC as part of the completion monies on the new 
purchase. Barclays accepted that it should have waived the ERC automatically and offered 
£75 by way of compensation together with £3.71 to cover any interest charges incurred up to 
July 2022. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as the cause of this 
confusion was Barclays provision of incorrect funds to the solicitors. Our investigator 
recommended compensation of £200. Barclays accepted this outcome but Mr L asked for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conclusion I reached is similar to that of our investigator. Barclays accepts it made an 
error by adding the ERC to the redemption statement and provided the funds on that basis. 
This caused confusion to Mr L and he has spent some time trying to resolve it. I asked our 
investigator to speak to Mr L and hopefully he has been able to explain it to him. But 
although Barclays made an error, it caused Mr L no financial loss. It meant that in completing 
the purchase Mr L s solicitors used less of Mr Ls savings and instead used the extra money 
that Barclays had paid in error. It leaves Mr L with a higher mortgage balance but he can 
reduce this by using the money from his savings that he didnt have use to purchase the 
house to pay it off. So, although I accept that the matter can be confusing I also accept that 
Mr L suffered no financial detriment. So, I believe that the amount suggested by our 
investigator of compensation in total of £200 is fair and I uphold this complaint on that basis.   
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr L £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr L 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman