DRN-1049610
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused him a credit card without 
good reason which he believed negatively impacted his credit rating.  
What happened
Mr H repatriated to the UK in October 2018 after 23 years living abroad. He has described 
himself as a successful businessman. Mr H said he is the co-founder and director of a large 
company.
In November 2018 Mr H opened a bank account with Halifax and deposited over £700,000 
of savings. Mr H said he had no immediate purpose for the money, so he dispersed it 
between several bank accounts in his name, as the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) only guarantees £85,000. He said he kept a balance of £100,000 with the 
Halifax. 
Mr H said he requested a credit card in order to do such things as renting a car and checking 
into hotels, and he intended to pay the balance off every month. He said Halifax refused him 
credit despite his shareholding, directorship and bank balance. He also said he had no 
County Court Judgements (CCJs) nor any other reason for being refused a credit card. He 
said his credit score was low. So he complained to Halifax. 
In its final response Halifax did not uphold Mr H's complaint. It said as a responsible lender it 
had a responsibility to ensure its decision reflected that, and that customers don't over 
commit to borrowing. It said it uses information from a credit reference agency, A, to review if 
it can process lending applications. It didn't accept it had made an error in using information 
provided by A. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied. He said there was no real justification for refusing him credit and 
that this had had a significant impact on his life and career. He brought his complaint to this 
service. 
The investigator didn't think Halifax had acted fairly. He established that Mr H had not 
actually completed an application but had only completed an eligibility check. Halifax 
confirmed that this was only a soft check and, as such, not visible to any other lenders. The 
investigator thought Halifax  should have made this clear to Mr H and recommended it pay 
him £150 for the upset this had caused. 
Halifax didn't agree. It said it had no evidence Mr H had made a credit card application but 
that due to his product holdings it would be prepared to refer a future application to the 
underwriters for a decision. It said Mr H only had a 'quotation' search on his credit file 
through doing an eligibility check. It went on to say that Mr H would have seen the screen 
message noting that his credit rating would not be affected by this check. And that Mr H's 
reason for the complaint was that he was declined a credit card but that, in fact Mr H had not 
been declined a credit card. It asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm persuaded that 
Halifax should pay Mr H £150 for the upset this situation has caused him. 
It has been established that Mr H did not actually apply for the credit card. System notes 
indicate he carried out an online eligibility check which left a trace on his credit file known as 
a soft search. Halifax has confirmed that this is not visible to future lenders and has no 
bearing on his credit rating. I've no reason to doubt this. I'm also satisfied that Mr H was not 
refused credit. But it seems to me that Mr H thought he had been. And, as a consequence 
this caused him some distress as he believed refusal of credit would have a profound impact 
on his personal life and professional reputation. The latter because he was hoping to take a 
directorship which, he said, relied on good credit rating. 
So it is left to me to decide if Mr H ought reasonably to have known he wasn't actually 
applying for a credit card when he said he was. 
Halifax provided the link to the online eligibility which I have considered. The web page says 
it is an eligibility checker and it says:
"It's easy to check if you're eligible for a Halifax credit card without leaving a trace on 
your credit score"
There is a pink box below which says:
"Your credit rating will not be affected and there's no obligation to apply for a card 
afterwards"
Customers are then invited to check their eligibility. The link goes to a page which invites 
customers to input personal details. There is a reminder that the "soft search doesn't affect 
your credit rating" but I notice that the tab at the top says: 
"Halifax - Credit Card Application."
And it also says on the page:
"We may use your email address to update you about this application or any 
incomplete application."
I'm satisfied that at this stage there are notices that the search will not affect credit rating  but 
there is also a degree of ambiguity about whether this is an application. 
Halifax has said that in its final response letter of 21 February it informed Mr H  of how to 
make a credit card application and that due to his product holdings it would be prepared to 
refer a future application to its underwriters for decision. And that it sent a copy of this letter 
three times. 
I've considered this letter. Halifax's understanding of the complaint is that Mr H has had a 
credit card application declined. But the letter doesn't actually explain to Mr H that it had not 
declined an application because in fact Mr H hadn't made one. Indeed I'm satisfied that 
Halifax continued to give Mr H the impression that he had applied for a credit card. In its 
findings the first paragraph says:"As responsible lenders it's our responsibility to ensure our decision reflects this and 
our customers don't over commit themselves with their borrowing. We use information 
provided by A to review if we can process lending applications."
In its response to the investigator's review Halifax said  Mr H's other statements and 
explanations that he would have to declare a declined application to future lenders were a 
side issue and incorrect.
I accept Mr H did complain that he was declined a credit card but it was only after 
intervention by this service did he come to understand that he, in fact, didn't actually apply 
for one. I'm satisfied that there was some ambiguity in the online form regarding whether he 
was applying or seeking a quote or eligibility check. I'm also satisfied the final response letter 
was also ambiguous, and that Halifax should have explained more fully in that response. 
Putting things right
I do understand that this misunderstanding has caused Mr H some distress and for a period 
of time he believed his good credit history had been affected. I think had Halifax explained 
that he had completed only an eligibility check and also explained what a soft search is and 
its implications this would have reassured Mr H. So I am persuaded that Halifax must pay Mr 
H £150 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that  Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr H £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman