DRN-3075796
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax allowed access to her 
daughters account to her father.
What happened
Miss S says she opened the Halifax account for her daughter and was listed as the 
controlling adult. She says she asked for a statement and found out that her daughters 
father had replaced her as controlling adult and that he had withdrawn a substantial amount 
of the money in the account. Miss S says he didnt have permission to do so and wouldnt 
have been able to do so if not for Halifaxs mistake.
Halifax accepts it made a mistake when upgrading its systems. It has apologised and repaid 
Miss S the money as well as interest on the balance. Halifax has also paid £250 
compensation.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with it 
by refunding the money and paying interest and compensation. The investigator thought it 
was Miss Ss daughters fathers actions that led to what took place.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says this was Halifaxs fault and has meant her 
daughter now no longer has contact with her father or his family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no question here that Halifax made a mistake. I have no doubt Miss S and her 
daughter would have been concerned about how the mistake took place and where her 
money was. I also accept that until Halifax refunded the money that Miss S and her daughter 
would have been concerned about if it would be refunded. But Im satisfied that Halifax has 
apologised and explained what took place. And that it took responsibility for changing the 
controlling adult on the account.
I would have expected Halifax to put the account back in the same position it was in before 
the unauthorised withdrawals. And I can see that Halifax has done so by refunding the 
money and paying interest on the balance.
The key issue here is the level of compensation. And Im satisfied Halifax has paid what I 
think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £250. I think that award reflects the 
fact that there was no financial loss here and that Halifax sorted the problem out within a 
relatively short time period.
I appreciate Miss S says that Halifaxs action led to the breakdown of her daughters 
relationship with her father and his family. I am sorry to hear that. But Im satisfied that Miss 
Ss daughters father withdrew his daughters money without permission and although he 
was given account access by Halifax, he ought to have known this wasnt his money. In 
those circumstances I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for his actions or for the 
breakdown in the relationship which I think was caused by his decision to withdraw money 
that wasnt his.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has acted fairly in dealing with this complaint and I dont 
require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman