DRN-2923117
The complaint
Miss C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes 
Financial Services ) (MFS) was wrong to apply damage charges when she returned a car 
that MFS supplied under a hire purchase agreement (HPA).
Miss C had help from someone else to bring this complaint but, in this decision, Ill refer to 
whats been said on her behalf as if Miss C had said it herself, to keep things simple.  
What happened
Miss C got this car in September 2016 and agreed to hire it for four years with the option to
purchase at the end of the agreement. She decided to return the car when the HPA ended in
September 2020. And MFS sent an invoice shortly after asking her to pay about £700 for
damage. Miss C thinks the damage in question falls within fair wear and tear  in light of the 
cars age on return, amongst other things  and the charges are excessive. Shes also 
unhappy that she didnt have the chance to arrange for repairs herself at less cost  as she 
was told by MFS she could have had pre-inspection check before giving the car back but 
then they said this had stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She feels shes been treated 
unfairly and she wants MFS to remove all the charges.
MFS says (in summary):-
Miss C was told what wear and tear was acceptable and she could have repairs
carried out herself if she wanted to - in the HPA she signed and in a return pack 
sent about six months before she was due to hand the car back;
details of MFSs vehicle return standards (VRS) are also available online along 
with the charging matrix referred to in the HPA;
Miss C didnt return the car in an acceptable condition under the VRS and MFS 
was entitled to charge for damage;
Miss C handed the car back to a local retailer instead of MFSs usual process - of
collection by third party specialist agents - but the retailer carried out an appraisal
with Miss C present and highlighted damaged areas;
Miss C signed the appraisal form to confirm that the damage noted was present; 
and
all four charges are fair and properly applied in the circumstances.
One of our investigators reviewed the evidence and considered relevant industry guidance.
He was satisfied that three of the charges were reasonable but he didnt think the fourth
charge was fair. He recommended MFS should remove one charge of £130 - applied in
respect of damage to the rear bumper.
MFS agreed to remove the charge but Miss C didnt accept this. She says (in summary) the
investigator referred to damage to areas larger than 3mm but this was within the size guide
that MFS provided and MFS said it wasnt chargeable. She would like all of the charges
removed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. My reasons werent the same as the investigators and I thought it was fair to let 
the parties see my provisional conclusions - and make further submissions if they wanted to 
- before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2021. Ive set 
out my provisional findings below and these form part of my final decision. 
My provisional findings
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im satisfied that Miss C agreed to maintain this car in good condition, return it in line with
MFSs VRS and be responsible for repairs and refurbishment, when she took out the HPA.
vehicle return standards applied by MFS
The VRS are set out in the HPA and these explain the standards that MFS expected this car
to meet on return. I think its likely Miss C was also reminded about the VRS - and told that
the car would be inspected on return - in a pack MFS would have sent out several months
before the HPA ended. 
As far as its relevant here, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:-
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by 
polishing/touch up and
any chipping of paintwork that can be attributed to normal usage (e.g chips caused 
by stones flying off public road surfaces) provided they do not penetrate the vehicle 
base coat nor show signs of corrosion.
And the following is not acceptable:-
any excessive chipping of paintwork arising from non-public road use e.g. gravel 
drives, industrial sites or private roads and
any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or 
has caused corrosion of any kind and cannot be polished out.
industry fair wear and tear guidance
The investigator referred to guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing
Association (BVRLA) in his view. This is industry guidance thats usually used for cars that
were new at the outset of the finance agreement  so theyre generally about four years old
or less when they are returned. Miss Cs car wasnt brand new at the outset of this 
agreement - it was about eighteen months old with around 9,000 miles on the clock. And it 
was over five years old and had travelled over 37,000 miles when it was returned in 
September 2020. But, I think the BVRLA guidance still has some relevance - taking the age 
and mileage of the car into account  and its reasonable to consider it here.
As far as its relevant to Miss Cs complaint, the BVRLA guidance says surface scratches of
25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable. The word not
(underlined above) was omitted from the investigators first view. I think this was probably
just a typographical error but I want to clarify it here, to avoid any confusion. To be clear, Im
satisfied that, under the BVRLA guidance, scratches in excess of 25mm are chargeable and
shorter scratches are also chargeable if they go through to the primer or bare metal isshowing. With reference to chipping the BVRLA guidance says chips of 3mm or less in 
diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel 
is permitted, six chips per door edge is permitted.
Having compared the two, I think the VRS are a little more generous than the BVRLA
guidance in some respects  for example, the VRS dont refer to the number or length of
scratches or chips when it comes to whats acceptable. And, where the VRS are less
stringent, I think its reasonable to use these as the fair measure of whats acceptable here.
I say this because Im satisfied that MFS referred to the VRS when it told Miss C what
standard she would have to meet when the car was returned (and, in this instance, that
standard doesnt exceed industry guidance). I think this seems appropriate for a car of this
age and mileage and I dont think its fair to hold Miss C to a higher standard, in these
particular circumstances.
Miss C has referred to MFSs guide card in correspondence. I havent seen a guide card
as such and I think she probably means the VRS when she says this. If Im wrong about
that, and MFS has provided Miss C with another guide and that says something different to
the VRS (as set out in the HPA and on MFSs website), Miss C should let us know - and
supply the guide in any response to this provisional decision.
damage charges
I have considered the inspection report from September 2020 which includes various
photographs of the car taken at the inspection. I think its unfortunate that these photographs
are, in the main, of (relatively) poor quality and compromised by glare and reflection. In
particular, I find it difficult to tell from the relevant photographs how deep scratches and chips
are exactly and whether they go through the paint to the primer.
I think it is reasonable, in these circumstances, to give some weight to the comments made
about each item by the appraiser. I say this because the appraiser saw the car in daylight
first hand, she appraised it in Miss Cs presence and Miss C also signed the inspection
report to confirm that she accepted the appraisers comments were fair at the time. For ease 
of reference, I have summarised the relevant item charges as follows:-
1.OSR quarter panel  scratched - photographs 7, 8 refer  repair cost £210
2. front bumper  scratched - photographs 1,3,12 refer repair cost £130
3. OSF door  chipped and scratched - photographs 4,5,6 refer  repair cost £210
4. rear bumper  scratched - photograph 9 refers  repair cost £130
In his view(s) the investigator considered items 1,2 and 3 above were chargeable because
(in summary):-
1. OSR qtr. panel  theres a scratch visible in photograph 8 that goes through the 
paint with primer showing that cant be polished out;
2. front bumper - theres a scratch visible in photograph 1 that goes through the paint;
3. OSF door  he couldnt see a scratch in photograph 4, three chips are visible in
photograph 5 and theres a large area of door edge chipping in photograph 6 which is
longer than 3mm and chargeable under the BVRLA guidance;
4. rear Bumper - he looked at photograph 10 and couldnt see a scratch, only a chip,
the photo isnt clear and theres no measurement to demonstrate size so its not
chargeable.
From the evidence Ive seen. Im minded to agree that items 1 and 3 are chargeable - under
both the VRS and the BVRLA guidelines. Im satisfied the evidence suggests that the
scratches visible in photographs 8 (item 1) and 4 (item 3) are through the paint to the primer- in light of the appraisers comments and Miss Cs acceptance of those comments at the
inspection.
I dont think item 2 is chargeable however. I say this because Im not satisfied its sufficiently
clear from the photograph the investigator looked at (photograph 1) - or any other - that this
scratch is through the paint. I can see the appraiser recorded that it had not penetrated the
paintwork when she saw the car - and I think its unlikely, on balance, that the appraiser
would have failed to notice and record that this scratch had gone through.
I acknowledge the appraiser has said that the scratch shown in photograph 12 is over 25mm
 which would mean its chargeable under BVRLA guidelines. But, Im satisfied that MFSs
VRS dont refer to the length of a scratch - in terms of whats acceptable. I think this is what
Miss C may be referring to when she says MFS doesnt mention size in its return guide.
According to the appraisers comments, none of scratches in photographs 1,3,12 penetrate
through the paintwork. Im satisfied this damage is not chargeable under MFSs own
standards and Im minded to find MFS should remove the £130 charged in respect of
damage to the front bumper.
On the other hand, I think item 4 is chargeable, under both the VRS and the BVRLA
guidance. I appreciate the investigator said he couldnt see the damage in question when he
looked at the photographs in the appraisal report. But, the investigator also said he looked at
photograph 10 whereas (according to the inspection report) the rear bumper can be seen in
photograph 9. I dont think that photograph 9 is particularly clear. But, Im satisfied the
appraiser recorded this scratch was over 100mm long and went through the paintwork - and
Miss C accepted that at the time. I consider it is reasonable that MFS is entitled to charge
Miss C for this damage in line with the terms of their agreement.
For the reasons Ive set out, I am inclined to find MFS should waive one £130 charge (at
item 2 above) and Im satisfied that charges 1,3 and 4 (total cost £550) were applied
properly. I think this damage goes beyond fair wear and tear and Ive seen nothing to show
that the amounts charged are excessive or unreasonable. I consider Miss C had time and
enough information to arrange to have the car repaired herself before it was returned, if she
wanted to. And, on the current evidence, I cant fairly require MFS to waive or reduce the
three remaining charges any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and provide any further comments 
or evidence (if they wanted to). The date I set for responses has now passed. 
The parties havent objected to my provisional conclusions or provided any further evidence 
and I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision. For the reasons 
Ive given, I remain of the view that MFS should waive one £130 charge (at item 2 above) 
but charges 1,3 and 4 (total cost £550) were applied properly. And I cant fairly require MFS 
to waive or reduce the three remaining charges any further.
   
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (trading as Mercedes Financial Services) to remove one charge of £130 as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman