DRN-2167103
The complaint
Mr N complains about delays and the poor handling of a claim under his home insurance 
policy and is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance 
(Co-Op) has registered a second claim for subsidence damage.
What happened
Mr N reported subsidence damage to his property in 2008 and 2013. Co-Op handled the 
claims under Mr Ns policy and appointed contractors to inspect the damage and carry out 
remedial work. Mr N made a complaint about the way his claim was progressing in 2016. 
Mr N then contacted Co-Op about further subsidence damage to his property in 2019. 
Co-Op registered this as a separate claim and required Mr N to make an additional excess 
payment. Mr N was unhappy about this as he felt the damage shouldve been treated as a 
continuation of previous and ongoing subsidence.
Site visits were carried out and the damage was inspected. The arborists report said the 
cause of the damage was clay shrinkage subsidence  the primary cause of which was an 
oak tree in the neighbours garden. The engineer said the latest subsidence event was 
unrelated to previous subsidence events, pointing to the length of time that had passed since 
the last subsidence event and the period of stability in between. The engineer also said the 
damage had occurred to a different part of the property.
Mr N disagreed and said the damage was a result of unsatisfactory remedial work that had 
taken place previously. He said there was damage in the same places as before and he said 
the cause was also the same vegetation, so a new claim shouldnt be registered. Unhappy 
with Co-Ops handing of the claim and the delays and poor communication throughout the 
process, he referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought the second claim had been logged 
correctly and in line with the policy terms. The investigator also thought the £200 Co-Op had 
offered Mr N for its poor service was fair. Mr N didnt agree with our investigators 
assessment, so the complaint has now come to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mr Ns complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr N, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision. 
As Mr Ns previous complaint about Co-Op in 2016 was not referred to our service within six 
months of the date of Co-Ops final response letter (dated 28 April 2016), Im afraid under 
the rules which govern our service I wont be able to comment on events which took place 
prior to that date. Im only able to determine whether Co-Op has acted fairly in relation to 
events which occurred after that date, and which are the subject matter of Co-Ops final 
response letter dated 14 October 2019. 
Mr N has made numerous submissions regarding all the subsidence events dating back to 
2008 and Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. Ive also considered the 
PowerPoint presentation Mr N has prepared showing the damage and crack monitoring 
locations relating to each incident of subsidence. However, much of what Mr N has said 
relates to previous subsidence events and the related claims handling and remedial work, 
which I cannot consider for the reasons Ive explained above. So, Im afraid I wont be able 
to comment on errors Mr N believes Co-Op and its agents made in the handling of previous 
subsidence claims.
I can, however, look at what happened in 2019 when Mr N reported subsidence damage to 
the rear left side of his property, which he says is a continuation of previous subsidence 
events, and a result of unsatisfactory remedial work.
Mr N says he reported the same damage to an engineer in 2016 and pointed out that the 
property cant have been stable at that time, as there was further cracking and movement 
after remedial action had been taken. Hes said the assessment that the property was stable 
in 2017 was incorrect and based on poor data. But Co-Op says the engineer didnt note the 
cracking as a concern at the time, and it says theres no evidence the property wasnt stable 
by November 2017. The most recent engineers report also confirms the damage to the left 
hand side of the property is likely unrelated to previous claims, and that the damage to the 
right hand side appears to be minor thermal movement or shrinkage of materials.
And as I dont have any conflicting expert reports, I have to consider whether Mr Ns account 
of the damage and its causes is more accurate, or whether the engineers assessment is. 
And, on balance, although I appreciate Mr N feels strongly that the engineers findings are 
incorrect, I dont see any reason to doubt those findings. This is because theres little 
evidence to show that the property wasnt stable after November 2017  the cracks Mr N has 
pointed to dont necessarily persuade me that there wasnt overall stability  for the reasons 
given in the engineers report. I think what the engineer said about the damage to the right 
hand side being due to minor thermal movement is plausible. And I dont think the damage 
caused by the subsidence event in 2019 occurred within a relatively short space of time. It 
follows therefore, that I dont think Co-Op has acted unfairly by treating the 2019 subsidence 
event as a new incident and not a continuation of previous claims.
Mr N has referred to an old newsletter from our service, in which there is a case study  the 
circumstances of which he believes to be similar to his own. However, our case studies are 
meant as a general guide and each case will turn on its own merits and supporting evidence. 
I agree that subsidence repairs should be long-lasting. And that temporary patch-ups are 
often inadequate  but I dont agree thats what has happened in Mr Ns case, or that cracks 
re-emerged in the same places within a relatively short space of time. 
I accept what Mr N says about mistakes being made by Co-Op. There were times when the 
service Co-Op provided fell below what wed usually expect, such as when Mr N had to 
chase Co-Op for responses to his emails. And I think Co-Op has acknowledged some of 
these errors and paid Mr N £200 for the inconvenience its caused. Ive considered whether 
it needs to do any more to compensate Mr N for delays. But subsidence claims can be the 
most time-consuming insurance claims to manage. Progress is often slower than customers 
would like due to the length of time it takes to investigate the damage and its causes as well 
as undertake monitoring and remedial work  and in this case there were also external 
factors which contributed to delays, such as issues regarding neighbours. So I cant say that 
Co-Op contributed to any significant delays which would warrant further compensation here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman