DRN-3582909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) rejected their claim under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in respect of 
a mis-sold timeshare. Mr and Mrs B are represented by a legal firm which I will call L.
What happened
In May 2010 Mr and Mrs B purchased Trial Membership from a timeshare business I will call 
C. The purchase price was £3,995 and in return for that they were provided with five weeks 
of accommodation over the course of three years.
They were also offered a promotional holiday called a Prelude that activated their Trial 
Membership once the Prelude was taken. Mr and Mrs B financed their purchase by way of a 
24 month Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement from BPF.
In January 2011 they purchased a Points Membership at a cost of £21,715 funded by wo 
fixed sum loans with BPF and a third with a separate lender. The BPF loans were paid off 
with another loan in April 2013.
L has set out the history of events leading to both purchases and of subsequent events. I 
understand these are not in dispute so I will provide a brief summary of the key events and 
concerns. 
Mr and Mrs B took advantage of a virtually free holiday following a cold call. At this 
they were taken to a presentation which lasted some eight hours and after being told 
all Cs resorts welcomed dogs, they signed up for trial membership. L says that C 
does not allow dogs on its sites.
As part of the Trial Membership Mr and Mrs B were given a free Prelude week 
which they had to take before activating their Trial Membership. During this week 
they say they were pressurised into taking on the Points Membership.
They were required to attend a meeting which lasted eight hours and during which 
they were accompanied by their young baby and an elderly relative.
They were pressured to upgrade so they could have access to the level of 
accommodation they were in at the time.
Mrs B was told that due her being on maternity leave C would help by paying £180 a 
month for 10 months. BPF would not agree to lend the full sum and so it made two 
loans to Mr and Mrs B separately and this was topped up by a loan from a third party. 
They also paid £500 for Choice Points which they forgot about and didnt use.
They say they were told they could sell the Points Membership, but this turned out to 
be untrue. 
They say they were told they could book any resort at any time, but they found this 
was difficult to do. They spent long times on the phone trying to book various 
locations, but could only access a limited number.
They say they were led to believe the resorts were exclusive for use by members 
only, but they were open to the public.
L says that no proper assessment was done of Mr and Mrs Bs credit worthiness. It also 
argues that the sales process contravened various rules and regulations. They were not told 
they could relinquish membership by serving notice.
L made a complaint to BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. I have seen a holding response but 
not a final one. In any event a complaint was made to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought the claim had not been 
made in time and the issue of unaffordable lending was not one we could consider as the 
loans were granted at a time when such matters were not within our jurisdiction.
L didnt agree and said that the complaint fell with our jurisdiction under the DISP rules. It 
said there was deliberate concealment of information which would allow the claim under s 32 
CCA. It added that there was an unfair relationship mad that BPF had made refunds to 
others who had entered into agreement with a different timeshare supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise that this 
will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. But I hope theyll understand why Ive come to the 
conclusion I have.
Before I explain why, I should explain my role is not to address every single point thats been 
made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of 
this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient 
points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all 
of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that 
have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
There is no dispute that Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with the C for services 
financed by a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And as Im satisfied that Section 
75 applies, if I find that the C is liable for having misrepresented either product to Mr and Mrs 
BPF  as the creditor  is also liable.
I recognise that there are a number of other concerns about the way in which Trial 
Membership was sold to Mr and Mrs B by C, but the allegation that dogs would be allowed is  
the only one that strikes me as one of misrepresentation about an existing fact. And for that 
reason, the other concerns are better dealt with under Section 140A.Misrepresentation and breach of contract
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. S has set out in 
some detail the various statements made to Mr and Mrs B and which led them to agree to 
buy the timeshare points. They were all made on or before January 2011, so that is the date 
on which any cause of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which L has raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather than 
being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be alleged 
occurred many years ago.
No claim was made until L contacted BPF in June 2020, more than nine years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside the time 
limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for BPF to decline to 
consider the misrepresentation and breach of contract claims under section 75 and the 
claims under section 56.
Section 104A and 104B claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual time limit for bringing a claim of this nature is six 
years from the date on which the credit relationship ended. The loan was settled in January 
2013, almost seven years before any claim was made. I therefore take the view that the 
limitation period for this part of the claim is six years and that it started no later than January 
2013.
It is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought under section 140A would be 
out of time. BPFs response to that part of Mr Bs claim was therefore reasonable.
The complaint about the credit assessment
Part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that BPF did not carry out a proper credit assessment 
before agreeing to the loan. It is not clear whether Mr B had difficulty meeting the payments 
due, but I do note that they settled the loans in full a little more than a year after it was 
agreed.
Our rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years 
of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in May 2010 and January 2011. Mr and Mrs B would have known fairly soon 
after that date if he was having difficulty making repayments. They certainly would have 
known within six years. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to 
this service by no later than January 2017. Because it was not, we have to consider if there 
were unfair terms in the loan agreementUnfair Terms
L says that Mr Mrs B have a claim against BPF as the terms were unfair. Such matters are 
covered by under Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR). A term which 
is unfair within the meaning of UTCCR is not enforceable. S says that the interest rate 
under the loan agreement was so high as to be unfair within that definition. Again, 
however, any such complaint would need to be brought within six years of the agreement, if 
this service is to have power to consider it  or, if later, withing three years of the date on 
which Mr and Mrs B knew or ought to have known they had cause for complaint.
They knew what the interest rate was when they agreed to the loans in 2010 and 2011. I do 
not believe therefore that I have any power to consider this part of his complaint.
I would observe in any event that UTCCR excludes from any assessment of fairness any 
term which relates to the price of goods or services. The interest rate in a loan agreement is 
in my view part of the price of the loan. So, even if I were to take a different view of the time 
limit, I do not believe I could properly uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
S 32 Issues
Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. In 
cases where that has been alleged, it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim. 
However, Mr and Mrs B have raised a number of issues with the product (over and above 
failure to declare how to end the agreement) in their claim/complaint and those issues could 
have been discoverable earlier, so I consider that they had discovered or ought to have been 
able to discover that something had gone wrong and if that was in excess of 6 years before 
claim, so I do not believe that s.32 extends the time limit. 
Conclusion
While I recognise that Mr and Mrs B had to attend a sales presentation during the Prelude 
that then led to them upgrading their membership, that wasnt an inevitability. And while they 
didnt make any use of their Trial Membership, that still seems to me to have been the result 
of the decision they made to trade in their Membership and upgrade shortly after the 
purchase in question.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court is likely to conclude that the relationship between Mr 
and Mrs B and BPF was unfair. And for that reason, I dont think BPF has to do anything 
further in relation to their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman