DRN-3571165
The complaint
Mr K complains through his representative that Loans 2 Go Limited lent money to him on a 
high cost loan irresponsibly, such that he was unable to afford the loan repayments.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr K with a loan of £500 on 30 August 2018 repayable at the monthly 
rate of around £114 over 48 months. Mr K settled the loan in full in March 2019. He 
complained to Loans 2 Go that he struggled with the high interest repayments on the loan 
and had to borrow from family members to settle it.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out full verification checks of Mr Ks income and his credit record. 
It assessed that the loan was affordable for him.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go had 
acted reasonably and that there was nothing in the checks it did to make her conclude that 
Mr K wouldnt be able to sustainably make the payments for the loan.
Mr K disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
From reviewing the credit check carried out by Loans 2 Go, I can see that Mr K had a credit 
card that was in default with a balance of £482 and a loan with a £76 balance on it. The 
latter had payments of £48 a month so would have had just two more payments to fully 
repay it. This, according to the credit check, was the full extent of his active loans or credit at 
the time of making the application. I understand that he had had payday loans in the past, 
but when considering his present ability to afford the loan, settled loans wouldnt be of 
interest. As Loans 2 Go pointed out, not all loans will show up in credit checks, especially 
recent ones, so it was up to Mr K to make Loans 2 Go aware of any such loans.
Mr K did have a low income  of about £925 a month. Nevertheless, even with the new loan 
repayment and counting the £48 payments for the one loan on his record, this amounted to 
about 20% of his income. I dont think that was a ratio to be concerned about, especially with 
the one loan due to be paid off.
From the point of view of his disposable income Loans 2 Go assessed that Mr K had 
monthly outgoings of around £697, including his credit commitments. With the new loan 
instalments this would have left him with a disposable monthly income of around £114, a bit 
tight, but in view of the low credit commitments he had I think this points to the new loan 
being affordable to Mr K.
I think that Loans 2 Go carried out reasonable and proportionate check to assess the 
affordability of the loan for Mr K. I dont think there was anything it saw in its checks that 
would have alerted it to carry out any more detailed assessment. So I think Loans 2 Go 
made a fair lending decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman