DRN-4196541
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down claims he made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). He also says that BPF didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before it lent to 
him.
What happened
In June 2010 Mr W took out a points-based membership of a holiday company (the 
Company). He paid £5,500 for the membership, which bought him 8,000 points which he 
could use to buy holidays. He funded the full cost of the purchase with a fixed sum loan from 
BPF. The loan was set to run for ten years, with monthly repayments of £71.58. In the event, 
Mr W repaid the loan in full in December 2012.
Mr W says that the Company made misrepresentations to induce him to take out the 
membership. He also believes that BPF didnt carry out proper checks to make sure he 
could afford the loan. Nor did it declare commission paid to the Company.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that Mr W had been too late in bringing his claim under section 75 
CCA. So she didnt think it was unreasonable of BPF to turn that claim down. She didnt 
think it was likely that a court would consider the relationship between Mr W and BPF to 
have been unfair. And she hadnt seen anything to make her think the loan was unaffordable 
for Mr W or that there was any other reason why his complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Ws representatives, on behalf of Mr W, disagreed with the investigators view. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to BPF on 22 May 2023. I said:
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Ive 
considered all the submissions and evidence provided by both parties to the complaint, 
and Ive borne them all in mind in reaching my decision. But Im only going to refer to what 
I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions.
Section 75 CCA
Mr Ws representatives say that the Company mis-sold Mr W the timeshare because its 
representatives made a number of representations to him which turned out not to be true.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier (the Company, in 
this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under 
section 75 CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer 
could make against the supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr Ws claim was made out of time under the Limitation 
Act 1980. But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding 
whether BPFs response to the claim was reasonable.
Im satisfied that in this case the date on which the cause of action accrued was the date 
on which Mr W suffered damage. And any relevant damage was incurred when Mr W 
bought the product. This is because the date of purchase was the point at which he 
became liable under the purchase agreement and paid for the benefits which he says were 
misrepresented to him.
This means that any claim under section 75 CCA would need to be made within six years 
of the date when Mr W bought the holiday product. That was in 2010. From what Ive seen, 
he didnt contact BPF until 2017. And by that time the six-year period within which hed 
have needed to bring an action under section 75 CCA had expired.
Given that I think it likely that a court would say that Mr Ws claim for misrepresentation 
under section 75 is out of time, I cant fairly conclude that it was wrong of BPF to turn down 
his claim.
Unfair relationship  s.140A CCA
Section 140A CCA allows a court to determine whether an unfair relationship exists 
between the creditor (BPF in this case) and the debtor (Mr W) because of any of the terms 
of the credit agreement or the related agreement, the way the creditor has enforced their 
rights under the agreement, or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before 
or after the credit agreement was made. Again, only a court has the power to make such a 
determination, but as I consider it to be relevant law, Ive taken it into account in deciding 
whether BPF acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim.
Ive also borne in mind that, under section 56 CCA, any negotiations between Mr W and 
the Company are deemed to have been conducted by the Company as an agent for BPF. 
This includes any representations made by the Company and any other dealings between 
them. In the context of section 140A this means that the pre-contractual acts or omissions 
of the Company will be deemed to be the responsibility of the lender. So this may be taken 
into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between the 
consumer and the lender.
But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not convinced that theres any basis on which 
I could properly conclude that there was an unfair relationship in this case. Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation
Ive thought about the misrepresentations that Mr W says the Company made in the 
context of whether they rendered the relationship between Mr W and the Company unfair.
Mr Ws representatives have told us that the following misrepresentations were made:
The Companys sales representatives told him that his points would generate a rental 
income which would be more than enough to cover the annual maintenance fees 
associated with the membership. In the event, he never made any profit.He was told that hed qualify for the Companys fractional points scheme if he bought 
more points. But Mr Ws representatives believe Mr Ws membership was fractional 
from the outset, without the need to buy more points, so it was misleading to say that 
hed need to buy more points to qualify for fractional membership.
The contract implied that Mr W would have access to accommodation at a specific 
location.
Evidence theyve seen in other complaints shows that 80% of resorts included in 
membership will be sold in 2027-31.
The benefits of the membership were over-stated. The general public can book the 
same accommodation that Mr W can book much more cheaply, and without the 
associated membership fees.
Mr Ws membership was points-based. It didnt give him an interest in a specific property 
from which a rental income could, even potentially, be earned. Whats more the two-page 
Customer Compliance Statement which contains a numbered checklist of points, and 
was signed by Mr W, says We understand that the purchase of our points is an 
investment in our future holidays, but that it should not be regarded as a property or 
financial investment.
So Im satisfied that, contrary to what Mr Ws representatives say, his membership of the 
club wasnt fractional. Its clear from the documentation that it was points-based. So I dont 
accept Mr Ws representatives assertion that being told about the potential to upgrade to 
a fractional membership amounted to a misrepresentation.
The contract doesnt say that Mr W would have access to specific properties. Rather, he 
bought points which he could use as payment for holidays at a range of holiday properties. 
Ive been provided with a copy of an Inventory Schedule, which lists a number of resorts. 
But its clearly headed As at 1st June 2010. And it says reasonably clearly in a note at 
the bottom of the page that the resorts may be added to, substituted or removed. So I think 
it was clear that there was no guarantee that Mr W would be able to book specific 
accommodation, or that any given property would continue to be available to club 
members.
Nor have I seen anything to persuade me that Mr W was told that the accommodation he 
could book with his points was exclusive to club members, or that there was any 
guarantee that he wouldnt be able to book the same accommodation more cheaply 
through another route.
So based on the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that there was any 
misrepresentation in this case.
Alleged pressure
After the investigator issued her view of the complaint, Mr Ws representatives commented 
that Mr Ws ongoing financial obligations to The Club were not made clear at the sales 
presentation and were hidden in lengthy long-winded documentation after a lengthy 
barrage of information within a high-pressured sales presentation. Theyve also said that 
he wasnt given the paperwork until hed already committed to taking out the membership.
I understand that sales meetings for memberships like the one Mr W bought often ran on 
for many hours and the Companys representatives would have highlighted the benefits of 
the product.But while I dont doubt that the techniques used might have made saying no more difficult, 
Im not satisfied that this means that Mr W was left with no effective choice but to take out 
the membership. Nor am I persuaded that he ended up with a membership that he didnt 
actually want. Whats more, the contract included a 14-day cooling-off period which would 
have allowed Mr W to cancel the membership if hed had second thoughts about it within a 
fortnight of signing the contract. And I think its likely hed have done so if hed only signed 
up to the membership due to the pressure he says he experienced at the sales 
presentation.
I believe Mr W was aware that he was buying membership of the holiday club. The loan 
agreement sets out the purchase price, the number of years financed, the applicable 
interest rate and the monthly payments. So while I accept that the sales presentation may 
have been weighted towards the attractive lifestyle the club membership could provide, 
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that its likely that a court would find that 
the gap in knowledge between what Mr W thought he was buying and what he actually got 
was so significant as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
under section 140A CCA.
Mr Ws representatives have also referred to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (the CPUT regulations), which expand on the everyday definition of 
pressure. When Mr W took out the membership Regulation 7 stated that a commercial 
practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and taking account of all of its features and 
circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers 
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the use of 
harassment, coercion or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they would 
not have taken otherwise as a result.
It went on to say that the timing, location, nature and persistence of the practice have to be 
taken into account. And it said that undue influence meant exploiting a position of power 
in relation to the consumer so as to apply pressure, even without using or threatening to 
use physical force, in a way which significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an 
informed decision.
I havent seen anything substantive to suggest that Mr W was harassed or coerced into the 
taking out the membership. Ive explained above that I accept that the presentation may 
have been long. But Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
Mr W made the decision to take out the membership because his ability to exercise choice 
was  or was likely to have been - significantly impaired contrary to the CPUT Regulations, 
such that a court would conclude that the relationship between BPF and Mr W was unfair 
under section 140A CCA.Unfair terms
Mr Ws representatives have referred to various provisions of the contract which they 
believe amount to unfair terms under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999. They argue that the contract is unenforceable as a result. They say, for example, 
that Mr W had no control over the amounts incurred and charged as management charges 
under the membership contract. And they say that the ongoing financial contributions 
payable by Mr W are likely to exceed a proportionate share of the costs of managing and 
maintaining his points value. They also say that the combined effect of certain of the 
Companys Articles of Association is that Mr Ws interest in the timeshare will continue 
unchecked until 2054, and potentially in perpetuity.
I dont accept that the entire contract would be unenforceable if it were established that it 
included an unfair term. Even if a term is unfair under the UTCCR, only that term is 
unenforceable. The rest of the contract continues to bind both parties.
Ive also borne in mind that the Supreme Court has made it clear that for the purposes of 
section 140A CCA, any regulatory breach must be considered in the round, rather than in 
a narrow, technical way. Section 140A(2) says that a court shall have regard to all matters 
it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the 
debtor). I think thats wide enough to include the way the supplier exercises or enforces 
any terms that are or may be unfair. But I havent seen sufficient evidence that any terms 
in this case have, in fact, been exercised or enforced in a way that has been unfair to 
Mr W.
Whats more, I understand that the Company has given BPF an undertaking that 
consumers with complaints at the Financial Ombudsman Service who are still members of 
this particular scheme can choose to relinquish their membership without having to pay 
any outstanding annual management charges, and without prejudice to their ongoing 
complaint. So even if the terms Mr Ws representatives have referred to were unfair under 
the UTCCR, I think the Companys undertaking goes a long way towards mitigating or 
resolving the unfairness in the absence of evidence that theyve operated unfairly against 
Mr W in practice.
Mr Ws representatives have raised other arguments about unfair terms, but as our 
investigator pointed out, those arguments concern fractional timeshare ownership. The 
membership that Mr W bought in 2010, which forms the subject of this complaint, wasnt 
fractional. So I havent considered those points as Im satisfied they arent relevant here.
Mr Ws representatives have also referred to alleged contraventions of the Timeshare, 
Holiday Product, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. But those regulations 
only came into force in February 2011, so they werent in force when Mr W bought the 
membership, and I havent considered them here.
This means that Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude that BPF should have upheld 
Mr Ws claim under section 140A CCA.
Commission
Ive also considered the reference to commission that Mr W believes BPF would have paid 
to the Company.As far as Im aware, the levels of commission normally paid in this situation at the relevant 
time werent high enough to mean that BPF should have appreciated that not telling Mr W 
about any commission paid risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under 
section 140A. If any commission was paid (which isnt certain) I think its unlikely to have 
been more than 10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such 
a payment. And Im not persuaded that it was under an obligation to disclose the amount 
of any commission paid in these circumstances.
Affordability checks
Mr W has also expressed dissatisfaction about the checks which BPF carried out to ensure 
that the loan was affordable for him. And his representatives have said that BPF failed to 
carry out a sound and proper credit assessment in line with the Finance and Leasing 
Associations Lending Code 2006.
BPF says Mr Ws loan application would have been subject to rigorous screening, 
including an assessment of his existing credit commitments, his ability to repay the loan, 
his handling of his financial affairs and information from credit and other agencies. 
I havent been provided with full details of the checks actually carried out in Mr Ws case. 
But even if I were to reach the view that BPF should have carried out more detailed checks 
than it did, I could only require it to take action to put things right if I were convinced that 
an appropriate level of checks would have revealed that Mr W would have difficulty 
meeting the monthly payments of £71.58.
As things stand, neither Mr W nor his representatives have made any suggestion that the 
payments were, in fact, unaffordable for him, or explained why that was likely to have been 
the case, given his financial circumstances at the time of sale. And BPF has told us that 
Mr W always made his monthly repayments on time, and it has no record of his having told 
it he was experiencing financial difficulty.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im not intending to uphold the complaint.
Further submissions
BPF has told us it has no further comments to make. Mr Ws representatives havent 
provided any further comments or information, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman