DRN-3760589
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) didnt support him when he was in 
financial difficulty.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr M borrowed £4,000 from ELL. There were to be 42 monthly payments of 
£343.39. The total amount payable was £12,362.04. Late in 2018, Mr M became ill and his 
employment suffered.  He went self employed in 2020.  In April 2020, ELL agreed to a one-
month payment deferral.  In June 2020, a further deferral was agreed for one month. ELL 
agreed to three 30 day breathing space arrangements in November 2020, December 2020, 
and January 2021, but arrears built up. The last payment made by Mr M was in August 2020 
and in August 2021, a Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) was sent to Mr M. The arrears 
were then £2,060.34  six months payments. In November 2022, the loan balance was 
£3,088.54.
There were several calls between ELL and Mr M  including in October 2018; February 2020 
(two calls); and in February 2021. 
Mr M complained. He said ELL didnt support him when he was in financial difficulty. He said 
he told ELL about his illness and personal employment situation, yet they bullied him for 
repayments and offered him more money. He referred to a call on 11 February 2021  when 
he said ELLs conduct was poor as they pushed him to make payments at a time when he 
had no income and his partner had just given birth in difficult circumstances. 
He said ELL had offered to write off the balance of the loan. He said ELLs conduct made his 
illness worse. He said he wants interest on the loan refunded and the loan written off. During 
our investigation, Mr M said that ELL had breached his data by responding to a third party 
about a previous complaint  without his authority.
ELL issued two final responses in connection with the complaints Mr M has brought to us. 
The first, in March 2021 - apologised for how the call on 11 February 2021 was handled. 
They offered to pay compensation of £200 for that. Mr M didnt accept ELLs offer. The 
second, in December 2021, said theyd agreed to a one-month payment deferment in April 
2020. In September 2020, Mr M advised ELL he was self  employed and due to the 
pandemic hadnt worked since March 2020. They had suggested taking advice from a free 
debt advice charity. They asked him to complete an income and expenditure form, but he 
refused to do that. They then agreed to three consecutive 30-day breathing spaces (with no 
repayments) between November 2020 and January 2021. They said theyd supported Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said ELL had acted reasonably. Theyd 
provided payment holidays and three one-month breathing space arrangements on the loan. 
He could see that ELL had contacted Mr M - but the contacts didnt seem excessive. He did 
agree that the call in February 2021 wasnt handled very well and agreed with ELLs offer of 
compensation of £200.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. It has therefore 
come to me to make a final decision.
Mr M said the calls between himself and ELL should be listened to  and offered to send to 
us his recordings. This he did and provided one call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M also raised a complaint about the original lending by ELL  in May 2018. He said it was 
irresponsible. ELL responded to that in October 2018. Under the rules by which we operate, 
a customers complaint must be brought to us within six months of the final response from 
the firm. As Mr M brought his complaint to us in April 2021, this was more than six months 
after ELLs final response  so we cannot look at that aspect of his complaint.
During our investigation, Mr M also said ELL breached his data by responding to a third-
party firm of solicitors. As Mr M hasnt complained about that to ELL, nor was it part of his 
complaint he brought to us, I cannot look at that part of Mr Ms complaint either. If he wants 
to pursue that, he must put that complaint formally to ELL in the first instance.
Turning to the complaint points I have looked at  these are:
- That ELL didnt support him when he was in financial difficulty.
- That ELL bullied him for payments unreasonably.
- That ELL offered him more money when he couldnt afford it  rather than supporting 
him.
- He said ELL offered to write off the balance of the loan.
Support when in financial difficulty:
Mr M suffered illnesses in late 2018 and thereafter. His income was also affected by the 
pandemic from March 2020. He says he told ELL about this and they didnt provide him with 
help and support as they should have.
The relevant rules here are that businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial 
difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses 
like ELL should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For 
example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer them, 
and allow customers more time to repay their debt. So  I have looked at what ELL did in 
line with this guidance.
I can see that ELL put in place a payment holiday for one month in April 2020  and in June 
2020. And later, provided payment breaks for three months - between November 2020 and 
January 2021. So  I think its reasonable to say that ELL did try to support Mr M when he 
was in difficulty. I can see that ELL asked him to provide an income and expenditure form  
to see if they could help him further. But he wouldnt do that. If he had, then possibly a 
longer-term arrangement might have been considered. 
Mr M says he advised ELL of his employment situation. I looked at the notes on his account. 
These show he told ELL he was self-employed in May 2019  and at that time, ELL told him they couldnt lend to him because of that, or until he had traded for two years  which seems 
to me to be a reasonable thing to do.
Did ELL press Mr M for payments? 
I looked at the notes on Mr Ms account and listened to the calls dated November 2018; 
February 2020 (two calls); and February 2021. 
The notes show that ELL asked Mr M to call them in March 2019 to discuss his account. 
That doesnt appear to be in connection with any pressure to make payments  as they were 
up to date that that time. After Mr M fell into arrears, it was reasonable that ELL asked Mr M 
to bring his payments up to date. I can see that there were conversations in September 2020 
and October 2020 about Mr Ms situation  ELL asked him to complete an income and 
expenditure form. In December 2020, the notes say that Mr M was signposted to debt advice 
charities  which was the right thing to do.
But - there isnt any suggestion in the notes that Mr M was asked to make payments 
unreasonably. I think it is fair to conclude that at that that stage, ELL were trying to find a 
way to support Mr M  that is what the evidence suggests.  Much later, the Notice of Sums in 
Arrears dated August 2021 showed he was then six months in arrears  and therefore by 
that time, that course of action seemed a reasonable thing to do.. 
The calls in November 2018 and February 2020 did not mention payments  as the loan was 
then up to date. I listened to the call which took place in February 2021. This took place 
when Mr M was understandably stressed because of his partner having given birth under 
difficult circumstances. On the call, he explained that  and unfortunately, ELLs call handler 
asked him about the prospect of his returning to work and when his financial situation might 
improve. The call handler also suggested taking advice from a debt advice charity. While I 
can see why ELL needed that information (as the arrears were then six months), it wasnt 
appropriate in Mr Ms circumstances to push him at that time. I agree that ELL should pay 
compensation of £200 for that  as theyve offered.
Offers of more money: 
I reviewed the notes on Mr Ms account and the calls Ive referred to. On the call in 
November 2018, Mr M asked to borrow another £8,000 to consolidate some other debts, but 
that didnt go ahead. There was a brief call to Mr M on 20 February 2020  which I listened 
to. On the call, ELL offered to lend him more money if he needed it  but Mr M said he didnt 
need any more money at that time. No amounts were offered, and the call only took two 
minutes  so I dont think that was an unreasonable thing for ELL to do. Other than that, I 
couldnt see any other refences to offers of further loans from ELL.
Offer to write off the balance of the loan: 
Mr M has said that ELL offered to write off the loan balance. I looked at that. There isnt any 
reference to such an offer in the customer notes, nor in the calls I listened to. In the further 
call provided to us by Mr M  this was between he and ELLs complaints department  ELLs 
complaint handler also said he couldnt find any reference to such an offer. Therefore, based 
on the evidence I can see, I cannot say that ELL did offer to write off the loan.
In summary, having reviewed in depth what happened here, I think ELL supported Mr M in 
his time of financial difficulty in line with their obligations to do so under the FCAs guidance; 
there isnt any evidence to suggest that ELL unreasonably pressed Mr M for payments; nor 
did they unreasonably offer Mr M more money at a time when that wouldve been 
irresponsible. And I couldnt find any evidence to suggest that ELL offered to write off the loan balance.
I agree that the call in February 2021 couldve been handled more sympathetically in the 
context of Mr Ms personal circumstances at that time, and therefore ELLs offer of £200 is a 
fair way to settle Mr Ms complaint. If he wishes to accept this offer, he should get in touch 
with ELL to arrange payment. I know Mr M will be disappointed by this decision, he has 
referred to calls between himself and ELL in support of his case. But Ive listended to the 
calls that ELL have  and the call provided by Mr M. And Im persuaded that my decision is 
the right one on the balance of evidence here.
My final decision
I dont think Everyday Lending Limited needs to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman