DRN-1144396
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between February and April 2019 Sunny provided Mr C with 4 instalment loans. When they 
were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid by six monthly repayments. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Combined 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 06/02/2019 31/07/2019 6 £200 £53.45
2 09/02/2019 31/07/2019 6 £150 £92.94
3 11/04/2019 Outstanding 6 £100 £123.85
4 13/04/2019 Outstanding 6 £50 £138.98
 
Mr C feels that Sunny didnt do proper checks and so failed to identify that hed become 
dependent on payday loans and fallen into a cycle of borrowing just to repay loans. Mr C told 
us that he always worries towards the end of the month if he will be able to last until payday, 
and quite often has to borrow money from friends to make it through to his next payday.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1-3 shouldnt have been lent  but he felt that by loan 4 Sunny shouldve seen that 
Mr C was likely having money problems. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have 
provided loan 4 and he gave detailed directions setting out what he thought Sunny should do 
to put things right for Mr C. 
Sunny disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Cs credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr C told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2 and 3. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr C, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for Sunny 
to agree to lend. As Mr C hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to these first three loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Cs borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr C already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny. This suggests to me that Mr C was finding it hard to get on top 
of his money problems and his financial difficulties were likely ongoing.  
So although loan 4 mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Cs borrowing record indicated he was actually struggling with debt. And despite what 
hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr C was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 4 wasnt 
likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr C. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr C has told us, including his comments sent in response 
to our adjudicators view. It looks like our adjudicator has already dealt with the points hes 
raised  and whats been said looks fair and reasonable to me. So I dont think theres 
anything further I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has said already.  
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Sunny should put things right.
When he complained to us Mr C hadnt repaid loans 3 and 4  I dont know if thats still the 
case so Ive drafted the following directions accordingly. 
If Sunny has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr C.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loan 4.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loan 4. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman