DRN-4454992
he complaint
Miss B complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) settled her travel insurance claim 
unfairly. 
What happened
In Autumn 2022 Miss B claimed against her IPA travel insurance policy for loss of a gadget. 
She says the insurer repeatedly delayed settling her claim by asking her to resend 
documents. Shes explained when IPA eventually agreed to pay the claim, in 
December 2022, it refused to settle the claim based on what it had cost her to replace the 
item - £250. She says it instead based its settlement on a sale price - £200. 
Miss Bs unhappy as this has left her £50 out of pocket. She feels this is unfair as the sale 
price wasnt available when she replaced the item. Miss Bs of the opinion IPA delayed the 
claim until the item was available on a deal. She says she tried to complain to IPA but it said 
there was nothing it could do. To resolve her complaint Miss B would like IPA to pay her the 
additional £50. 
This service has made several requests for IPA to provide its evidence and response to the 
complaint. It acknowledged the request but failed to provide anything by an extended 
deadline. So our Investigator assessed the complaint using the information she did have. 
She said in the absence of evidence to the contrary she was of the opinion IPA had settled 
the claim unfairly. She recommended it reimburse Miss B £50 with simple interest added to 
the settlement. Miss B accepted that outcome. IPA acknowledged the assessment. But as it 
failed to provide a response by the deadline set in the view, the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Im satisfied by IPAs been made aware of Miss Bs dissatisfaction, with it having  had 
both a reasonable and the required time to provide a response. 
Miss Bs policy says IPA will replace a gadget in the event of loss or theft. Ive seen 
evidence she paid £250 to replace the gadgets she lost. I note IPA hasnt provided anything 
to explain why it feels it was fair for it to settle the claim based on a price of £200. It may 
have a reasonable explanation, but I havent been given it. For example IPA hasnt provided 
any evidence to show the item was readily available for that cost or that the policy terms 
allow it to settle for less than Miss B paid. Without that, I cant say it replaced the item as 
required by the policy. So on balance it failed to settle Miss Bs claim fairly and in line with 
the policy.
To put things right IPA will need to pay Miss B £50. Shes been unfairly without that amount 
because of its unfair settlement. To make up for that it will need to add simple interest at 8% 
from the date Miss B purchased the item (23 September 2022) to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Inter Partner Assistance SA is required to pay Miss B £50. It 
must apply simple interest to that - at 8% from 23 September 2022 to the date of 
settlement*.
 *If IPA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman