DRN-4483308
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marshmallow Insurance Limited referred him to a credit hire and repair 
service rather than dealing with his claim on his car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr M was hit in the rear by another driver and called Marshmallow to claim on his car 
insurance policy. Rather than dealing with his claim, Marshmallow referred Mr M to its Non-
fault service who Ill refer to as W. W assessed Mr Ms claim and provided him with a hire 
car while the damage to his car was assessed. W determined Mr Ms car wasnt one it would 
repair, so it paid him a total of £9,450 as the market value of his car. 
As W was unable to recover the hire car costs from the third party, it wrote to Mr M to 
request his financial details as it would need these to pursue the costs through court. It said 
if Mr M didnt co-operate then he would be responsible for its costs, which were in excess of 
£22,000. Mr M didnt think this was fair and complained to Marshmallow, he said hed never 
agreed to these costs and didnt understand how he could be pursued for more than his 
excess following a non-fault claim. 
Marshmallow reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said Mr M had been referred 
outside of his car insurance policy and that he had agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
credit hire and repair agreements. Marshmallow said as Mr M wasnt co-operating with W 
then it didnt agree he was being pursued for the charges unfairly. Mr M didnt agree and 
referred his complaint here. He said the hire car charges were over inflated and didnt 
understand why he should be liable when he had fully comprehensive car insurance. He also 
said the valuation given by W for his car was too low. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Marshmallow hadnt given Mr M 
clear information about his options when he called up to claim. He said he thought if Mr M 
had been given clear information, then he wouldnt have used W. Our Investigator said 
because of the poor referral, Mr M now needed to support W in recovering the hire car costs 
and potentially attend court. So thought Marshmallow should compensate Mr M for this as 
he wouldnt have had to do it if he claimed on his policy. 
Our Investigator acknowledged that being pursued for over £22,000 worth of costs and 
having to go to court to help recover them was distressing and recommended Marshmallow 
pay him £500 compensation. However, our Investigator didnt think it was fair for 
Marshmallow to cover the £22,000 worth of costs, as they could be recovered from the third 
party with Mr Ms co-operation. He also looked at the valuation given by W to see if the 
referral had caused Mr M a loss in the market value of his car. He found the value given was 
in line with the highest values given by the motor valuation guides we used and in the 
absence of other evidence he thought it was fair. 
Mr M said he agreed to the outcome if Marshmallow did. However, Marshmallow didnt 
agree. It said it was its process to refer non-fault claims and that its e-mail to Mr M let him 
know there was an alternative to using the non-fault service. Our Investigator didnt think this 
meant Mr M had been given clear information about his options. 
As Marshmallow didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Marshmallows responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot 
look at in this decision.
When Mr M called Marshmallow to report the damage to his car, he was referred to W to 
handle the claim rather than claiming on his policy. W is a solicitors who handle non-fault 
insurance claims and when it handled Mr Ms claim it was done outside of his insurance 
policy with Marshmallow. Also, the actions of W arent within the jurisdiction of this service. 
This means in this decision I can only consider the actions of Marshmallow when it referred 
Mr M to W.
As Mr Ms insurer, Marshmallow was obliged to provide Mr M with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1 The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr M contacted Marshmallow to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car, 
Marshmallow ought to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he 
could decide how best to proceed with getting his car repaired.
Marshmallow hasnt been able to provide the referral call so Im unable to determine what 
information was given. However, Marshmallow has provided an extract from an e-mail it sent 
Mr M which says if W doesnt agree its a non-fault claim, then Marshmallow will let Mr M 
know the next steps. The e-mail also gives an overview of who W is and what it does. 
While Marshmallow did explain to Mr M that W is a separate company and would be 
handling his claim. Im not persuaded Marshmallow provided Mr M with enough information 
for him to make an informed choice. I say this as Marshmallow didnt explain that by using 
W, that Mr M would need to enter into a credit agreement with W for the repair of his car and 
the hire car. Or that there is a possibility he could be held liable for these costs if the third 
party doesnt pay them.
When taking this into account, along with Mr Ms comments about the hire car charges and 
recovering them from the third party, Im satisfied that if Marshmallow had given Mr M 
sufficient information for him to make a choice, then he wouldnt have chosen to use W. Ive 
therefore looked at the impact this poor referral has had on Mr M. Mr M now needs to 
support W with its recovery of the hire car charges and attend court to do so. This is 
something he wouldnt have needed to do if hed claimed on his own policy with his insurer. 
Mr M has also explained he finds this very distressing as he believes W has over inflated the 
high car charges. 
I understand Mr Ms concerns, but as the charges are likely to be recovered from the third 
party with his co-operation, Im not persuaded it would be fair to direct Marshmallow to pay 
them. However, I do think Marshmallow should compensate Mr M for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience this has caused. Im satisfied the £500 recommended by our 
Investigator is fair compensation, therefore Marshmallow needs to pay Mr M £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Ive also considered Mr Ms point about W providing a low valuation for his car. While this is 
a decision by W, Ive looked whether the valuation would have been fair if offered by the 
insurer. I can see W ultimately valued Mr Ms car at £9,450 and the highest of the four 
valuation guides we use valued it at £9,375, which is lower than Ws valuation. In the 
absence of any further evidence to suggest the value should be higher, Im satisfied the 
referral hasnt meant Mr M received a lower value than he would have claiming through his 
policy with Marshmallow. So, I wont be telling Marshmallow to do anything in relation to the 
amount Mr M received as the market value for his car. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Marshmallow Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £500 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman