DRN-3805410
The complaint
Mr L and Ms O complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined a claim theyve 
made on their buildings insurance policy following a claim for subsidence to the extension of 
their property.
What happened
Mr L has led the complaint with this Service, so Ill refer to him throughout. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here. References to Mr L and AXA include respective agents and representatives unless 
stated otherwise.
Mr L owns a property built around the 1960s with an extension added in the 1980s. 
The property is covered by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by AXA.
Mr L noticed damage to the extension of the property in spring 2020 and contacted 
AXA to make a claim. It appointed an agent to investigate and validate the claim. The 
agent said the depth of the foundations was insufficient and the claim was declined. 
Mr L complained to AXA. It said the builder should have followed the guidelines of a 
certain builder of new homes  which Ill refer to as N  in deciding on the right 
foundation depth. It said these guidelines showed the foundations should have been 
more than 2.9 metres deep but were, in fact, between 0.8 metres and 1.2 metres. It 
concluded they were therefore inadequate for the site conditions.
It said the exclusion relating to defective design applied and it didnt change its 
position on the claim decline. So, Mr L raised a complaint with this Service.
Our Investigator said the evidence showed the damage was to the rear extension of 
the property and this wouldnt have been subject to Ns guidelines. Instead, Building 
Regulations should have been referred to. Because of this, she wasnt persuaded 
AXA could fairly rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
She said AXA should reconsider the claim against the relevant Building Regulations. 
AXA didnt agree and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim on a policy the onus is on them to show the 
claim is covered by the policy. When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to 
decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies.
Ive kept this in mind when considering this complaint together with what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable.
AXA seeks to rely on an exclusion relating to whats not covered by the policy: Loss 
or damagearising from the use of defective materials, defective design or faulty 
workmanship. And it says because the foundations dont meet the guidelines set by 
N, this exclusion applies.
AXA maintains that Ns guidelines apply to the construction of the extension. AXA 
says, according to these guidelines, the extension foundations should have been at 
least 2.5 metres deep taking into account nearby vegetation.
But I want to be clear, Ns guidelines relate to the building of new houses and werent 
the equivalent of Building Regulations when the extension was built in the 1980s. 
Instead, they are the guidelines set out by N in its role of overseeing and supporting 
improvement of building practices for new homes in the United Kingdom. 
I acknowledge the copies of Ns guidelines provided by AXA but I cant see Mr Ls 
extension was subject to these. I say that as the extension was built as an addition to 
an already existing property, rather than as part of a new-build. Ive seen nothing 
which persuades me the construction of the extension was subject to these 
guidelines.
So I dont think its fair AXA relied on these guidelines to determine whether the 
extension foundations were adequate or not as they simply dont apply in this case. It 
follows Im not persuaded AXA has shown the exclusion relating to defective design 
applies and so I dont think it has fairly declined the claim based on the reasons its 
stated.
I am directing AXA to reconsider the claim against the remaining policy terms taking 
into account the Building Regulations which were relevant at the time the extension 
was constructed, rather than Ns guidelines.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy without relying 
on the guidelines produced by N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman