DRN-2350633
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin). She made a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about a faulty sofa she 
paid for in part using her credit card issued by Virgin.
What happened
Ms M bought a sofa for £1,092.60 and paid the deposit of £109.26 on a credit card issued by 
Virgin. The sofa was later found to be faulty and the supplier offered a number of remedies 
including repair, replacement or refund. Ms M elected for replacement, but that offer was 
removed by the supplier. She decided to raise a complaint against Virgin under section 75. 
Virgin say they explained to Ms M what they needed to deal with her claim. This included an 
email of authorisation to contact the supplier, but this wasnt provided. They attempted to 
contact the supplier without an authorisation email, but the supplier wouldnt co-operate 
without one. Virgin then asked again for authorisation and this was received on 13 
November 2019, but they didnt react to it. Ms M chased for an update on 2 December 2019 
and was disappointed to find no progress had been made. Virgin then contacted the supplier 
who provided more detail on the dispute. 
Virgin issued their final response in December 2019 (as theyre required to do by the 
regulations within eight weeks of a complaint being registered with them) and at that stage 
made no proposals for resolution as their investigation was still ongoing. Ms M referred her 
complaint to us at that stage. 
Virgin continued with their investigation and the supplier told them theyd offered Ms M a 
replacement seat pad cover or a full refund on return of the sofa, but shed not accepted 
either offer. The suppliers have since gone out of business. 
Having attempted to resolve the case informally but without success, I sent Ms M and Virgin 
my provisional decision on 22 October 2020. I said:
Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Im satisfied the required
circumstances for Ms M to make a claim are present here.
My role isnt to decide whether Ms M has a valid claim under section 75, as that is for a
court. Instead, Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint. In doing so, Ive taken account of what the law says, including section 75 and the
CRA which says, the amount of the reduction maybe the full amount of the price. This
applies to a remedy a supplier may offer. But section 75 says that in the event of a breach of
contract by the supplier, Ms M has a like claim against the creditor [in this case Virgin] who
with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable.
Ive seen evidence that the supplier accepted the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality and had
offered the remedy of Ms Ms choosing between repair, refund or replacement. She elected
for replacement. But I think both sides accept that a replacement of the sofa isnt possible as
the supplier is no longer in business, and I agree with Ms M that a repair is unlikely to be
satisfactory as theres little prospect of obtaining the same fabric for the same reason. This
means that the only reasonable way to remedy the breach of contract is a refund or price
reduction.
Ive thought carefully about Virgins concern that providing a refund  or reduction in price -
of what Ms M paid for the sofa and allowing her to keep it puts her in a better position than
she would have been otherwise. But the crucial point here is that Ms M has paid for a sofa
which isnt up to scratch and is out of pocket as a result. If the supplier was still trading, I
expect shed have received a replacement or refund by now, but as they are not, section 75
says she has an equal claim against Virgin.
I think she should therefore receive a refund of what shes paid. Virgin are entitled to take
ownership of the sofa after making a payment but have already decided they dont want to
do that. While that is their decision it doesnt mean Ms M should suffer as a result.
Virgin have offered the £100 for their handling of Ms Ms complaint. I note she was initially
happy to accept that when it was first proposed by our investigator but has now said she
doesnt feel it adequately compensates her for the stress and anxiety shes suffered. Ive
thought carefully about how much  if anything  to award here. Ultimately, the main
problem Ms M has faced (the faulty sofa) is the fault of the supplier rather than Virgin.
While Virgin could have dealt with things more quickly, I note that they asked Ms M for some
help at the outset with authority to contact the supplier, which wasnt as forthcoming as it
might have been. This delay used up a significant part of the eight weeks Virgin had to look
into the complaint. Overall, taking into account all the circumstances, I think £100 is
reasonable.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision, subject to the further submissions of the parties, is that I uphold this
complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should:
Pay Ms M £1,092.60 she paid for the sofa
Pay Ms M £100 compensation
Arrange to collect the sofa at no cost to Ms M. But if they choose not to collect it, they
should let her know they wont be doing so and that she is free to keep it.
Virgin said they have no further comments other than to say that they are not in a position to 
collect the sofa. Theyve accepted this means Ms M will be able to keep it. 
Miss M recapped her complaint and provided some copies of phone calls - some of which 
we had already - and Ive listened to carefully. She said my comments about the delay in 
providing authority to contact the supplier was a misrepresentation of the truth. 
Miss M says that Virgin have received a partial refund from the supplier already (the amount 
of the deposit she paid) but that this wasnt passed on when her account was closed. This 
point is however the subject of a separate complaint which is already with us, so its not 
appropriate for me to comment further on it.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the calls Ms M provided. While the section 75 claim is discussed, most of 
the content relates to the service received from Virgin. I wont go through them in detail here, 
but I do want to address one which in my view is particularly pertinent to my decision. 
Among the calls Ms M provided is one from 25 October 2019. In it she says she received a 
letter from Virgin dated 2 October 2019 which said theyd received her section 75 claim and 
would look into it. They said they may need to contact the retailer but there was nothing 
further she needed to do at that stage.  
Miss M had made the call on 25 October 2019, to see what was happening. She was upset 
at the lack of progress in her claim which I understand. But the call handler asked her to 
provide, among other things, a short email giving authority for Virgin to speak with the 
supplier. Miss M said she didnt want to do that and thought there was no point in Virgin 
doing so. She said Virgin had enough information to be able to make contact already. The 
call handler explained that Virgin would need to contact the supplier and they were unlikely 
to be able to do so without her explicit authority. Miss M had become upset by the end of the 
call and the call handler acknowledged her distress. Miss M didnt provide authority for Virgin 
to speak with the supplier until 13 November 2019. 
Its usual in section 75 cases for the creditor to speak with the supplier to assist with their 
investigation of the claim. I acknowledge delays both before the call of 25 October 2019 and 
after Miss M provided her authority on 13 November 2019. But I dont think its a 
misrepresentation of the truth to say there was a delay in her providing the authority. I cant 
say for certain that things would have been quicker if Miss M had provided her authority on 
25 October 2019 when she was asked to, but it would at least have given Virgin an 
opportunity to investigate the section 75 claim sooner. Given how distressed she was at the 
end of the call, I think its possible the call handler would have looked out for the authority 
and been able to progress the claim more readily.
Putting things right
As a result of our involvement, Virgin have agreed to pay Ms M £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays. I remain of the view that this is reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Turning to the claim itself regarding the sofa. Virgin have agreed to provide a full refund as I 
set out in my provisional decision. For the reasons Ive explained previously, I think this is a 
fair and reasonable way to settle the dispute. I note that Virgin have said they have no plans 
to collect the sofa (as they are entitled to do) and I take their comments to mean that Miss M 
can keep it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should:
 Pay Ms M £1,092.60 she paid for the sofa
 Pay Ms M £100 compensation
 Arrange to collect the sofa at no cost to Ms M. But theyve told me theyve no means
 to do so, so she is free to keep it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman