DRN-3405570
The complaint
Ms C is a sole trader. She has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down her 
business interruption claim after she was forced to close her business due to Covid-19.
What happened
Ms C held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. She claimed on her policy after 
her business was impacted by Covid-19. 
HDI said the policy didnt cover Ms Cs claim. The policy covered closure by a public 
authority as a result of the occurrence of a notifiable human disease at the premises. HDI 
thought that Ms Cs business had been impacted by the Governments nationally imposed 
restrictions rather than because someone at her business premises had Covid-19 and 
turned down her claim.
Unhappy with HDIs response, Ms C brought her complaint to our service. She said that HDI 
had told her she had to prove that someone had become sick at her business premises, and 
she could not do so. She said that her business had been interrupted due to Covid-19 and 
the Governments mandatory shutdowns, and that HDI should pay her the money she lost 
due to this business interruption.
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think Ms C had shown it most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at her business 
premises. He thought HDI had fairly turned down her claim. 
Ms C didnt agree the outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said 
that she was forced by the UK Government to close her business due to Covid-19, which is 
a contagious disease. Very sadly she lost her father during the pandemic and hadnt been 
able to visit him due to hospital Covid-19 restrictions. Covid-19 had been everywhere. 
Our investigator explained that Ms C would have to show an occurrence of Covid-19 at her 
premises. Ms C said that shed had Covid-19 in March 2020, during the first week of the 
pandemic, with three days of high fever and that she could not taste and smell food. She 
said she couldnt now prove this due to lack of testing. Our investigator asked if she could 
give us any other evidence from the time, such as text messages, but she said that she did 
not save messages on her phone due to the space they took up. She added that her 
husband had also been ill for eight days. They were the first in their family to have Covid-19, 
and shed found the memories of the fear theyd felt painful to recall. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Ms C lost her father during the pandemic, in such distressing 
circumstances. Im also sorry that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have 
had an impact on Ms Cs business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ms Cs claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ms Cs policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ms Cs 
claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
As Ms C says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case at the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Ive carefully considered Ms Cs comments about her and her husbands symptoms in March 
2020, which they think must have been due to Covid-19. However, I havent seen anything 
except her testimony to support this. And in this particular case, that isnt enough for me to 
find that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ms Cs premises. I also have to bear in 
mind that many people with symptoms of Covid-19 at that time didnt actually have the 
disease.
Ms C says that Covid-19 was everywhere but she has not shown that there was most likely 
Covid-19 at her business premises, as is required for a successful claim under the policy. 
I appreciate that Ms C feels this outcome is unfair. Shed understood the duty of this service 
was to protect the citizen who cant fight big companies. We do provide an informal 
complaint resolution service, which is free to consumers. As an Ombudsman I am impartial 
and independent, and so it is not my role to protect the citizen. Rather I reach evidence-
based decisions that I consider are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the individual case that I am deciding. 
In this case Im not persuaded there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ms Cs business 
premises, so I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay her claim. I appreciate that this will 
come as a considerable disappointment to Ms C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman