DRN-2204559
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2003, with their joint mortgage. 
What happened
A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
When the policy was first taken out, Mr M was covered for all elements of the TMPP  PPI, 
life and CIC. Miss C was only covered for life and CIC. And they paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. This changed in 2006 when the PPI element of the policy was transferred into 
Miss Cs sole name and Mr M was only covered for life and CIC.
The policy was cancelled in 2007. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss C and Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
did Miss C and Mr M agree to the TMPP?
2003 sale
Miss C and Mr M say they dont remember how the policy was sold to them. Halifax says 
the policy was taken out during a meeting. Given the nature of how these policies were 
usual sold, I think its most likely it was taken out during a meeting. So thats how Ive looked 
at the sale. 
During that sales meeting, Halifax should have made Miss C and Mr M aware the TMPP 
was optional. 
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points of complaint put forward by Miss C and Mr M. The 
key one is that they were told it was essential to take the TMPP to have the mortgage 
approved. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief now, weve seen quite a few 
similar sales to this from that time period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what 
Halifaxs sales processes were like.
We know for example that consumers were normally sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Miss C and Mr M, had accepted the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen 
quite a few of these before and I also know from experience that they show, as in this case, 
that Miss C and Mr M were asked several questions relating to the cover theyd agreed to 
buy. Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system, would have been 
done at the time of the mortgage interview  I think its most likely all aspects of the TMPP 
were probably discussed in some detail. 
Finally, I can see that whilst the life and CIC elements were sold to both Miss C and Mr M, 
only Mr M was insured under the PPI. This further leads me to think they discussed 
different forms of protection with Halifax and took the level of cover most suitable for their 
circumstances.
So overall, I think its more likely Miss C and Mr M agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale. 
2006 policy amendment
Halifax says the policy was amended in 2006 and it has provided a copy of a call note 
where Mr M called Halifax to explain he was moving out of the country and wouldnt be 
eligible for the PPI part of the policy but wanted it moving into Miss Cs name. Halifax has 
also provided a copy of the confirmation of the amendment which was sent to Miss C and 
Mr M in February 2006.
Miss C and Mr M say they have no recollection of amending the PPI element of their policy. 
They have explained that both of them were moving out of the country so it doesnt make 
sense that they would change the policy to Miss Cs name. 
Again, this happened over 14 years ago, and we only have limited information to rely upon. 
As Ive said above, this isnt unusual. The amendment letter is addressed correctly to Mr M. 
The letter starts with We have amended your TMPP as requested and it lists the 
answers to several questions posed to Miss C and Mr M and gives a full break down of the 
new costs. The letter asks that Miss C and Mr M contact it if any of the information isnt 
correct. 
Considering the contents of this letter, combined with the notes of the telephone call made 
by Mr M, I think  on the balance of probabilities - its more likely that Miss C and Mr M 
requested the amendment. Although I can understand why they dont remember this now. 
But I dont think Halifax has made an error in changing the policy or did so without the 
express consent from Miss C and Mr M. 
were Miss C and Mr M given suitable recommendations?
2003 saleHalifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Miss C and Mr M. So, it had to make sure it 
was suitable for them.
Miss C and Mr M say Mr M had good sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI 
element of the policy would have paid out alongside his employee benefits. 
Ive reviewed the information Miss C and Mr M have provided about the other policies they 
say they had. But having this form of life cover didnt make the TMPP element specific to 
the mortgage unsuitable. It wasnt unusual for couples to take out life cover to help each 
other out if the worst happened.
And I dont believe any of the protections Miss C and Mr M had with their jobs rendered 
PPI, life protection or CIC unsuitable for them. Miss C and Mr M were relatively young at 
the time and not uncommonly, they were taking on a mortgage which I think would have 
been a long-term commitment for them. 
The life / CIC cover was designed to help their next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended these 
elements as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that they take this was suitable. Only 
Mr M decided to buy it and he appears to have been eligible for the PPI cover and not 
affected by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Their mortgage 
was also secured against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to 
make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI policy, on the other hand, was 
designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if he had needed to claim. 
2006 amendment
In the telephone notes of the call between Halifax and Mr M, Mr M is advised to go into 
branch to get a new quote for the policy, after he advised Halifax some of their 
circumstances had changed. Its not entirely clear if that is what happened and whether 
Miss C and Mr M were given a personal recommendation on the changes to the policy. But 
 given their circumstances at the time  I dont think it matters because it looks like the 
policy was suitable for them. Ill explain why.
Looking at what Miss C and Mr M have told us, it doesnt look like Miss C was affected by 
any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. And as Ive said above, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any employee benefits she had. 
Ive noted what Miss C and Mr M have said about the savings they had, and the fact       
Miss Cs parents would have helped out if necessary. Having the protection offered by the 
PPI would have meant their savings could have been kept for their intended use  or for 
any other essential costs. And I dont doubt that Miss Cs parents would have wanted to 
help. But circumstances can change, so I dont think this help could have been guaranteed. 
were they given enough information?
During the sale and when the policy was amended Halifax should have provided information 
which was clear. I cant say Miss C and Mr M were told or given all the information they 
should have been, but I think they would have been easily able to see how much the TMPP 
cost and what was covered. I think they would have also been given a copy of the policy 
rules.Having carefully considered this case, I think its much more likely that Miss C and Mr M 
tailored the TMPP cover to suit their needs of the time. I think they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something they thought would be useful to have. 
All this means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need to 
refund everything Miss C and Mr M paid for it. But its offered to give them back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
If it hasnt done so already, Halifax will make arrangements to pay Miss C and Mr M now Ive 
issued my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss C and Mr Ms complaint. I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more than the above, to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman