DRN-1671379
The complaint
Miss S has complained Retail Money Market Limited, trading as RateSetter, is holding her 
liable for a loan of £9,000 she didnt apply for.
What happened
Miss S had a job working on a cruise ship. For a period from November 2018 to March 2019 
was working on board and not in the UK. Shed met someone previously she invited to 
spend a week with her on board. This person, who Ill call Mr A, joined her on 21 January 
2019 and left her when the boat docked somewhere on 27 January.
Whilst she was away she found her online banking became blocked. She wasnt able to find 
out why until she was back in the UK in March and went to her bank, who Ill refer to as L. 
She found out a loan for £9,000 with RateSetter had been taken out on 31 January. All the 
money had then been spent in places Miss S couldnt have been in.
She complained to RateSetter that shed not taken out this loan. They believed as the 
money credited her account with L, they could hold her liable for the debt and were 
expecting her to repay what was owed. They were also aware that expenditure, facilitated by 
the loan money, on her account with L was made with Miss Ss genuine card and PIN.
Miss S brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt the evidence 
pointed to Miss S knowing about what had happened. This was based on information wed 
got from L showing access to her online banking service. There was also no indication that 
Miss S reported her card missing or how Mr A could have obtained her online banking 
details without her consent. He wouldnt be asking RateSetter to refund Miss S or cancel the 
loan.  
Miss S has found herself in a position where shes lost a great deal of money and is 
substantially in debt. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator although my 
reasoning slightly differs. Ill explain this but have already been in touch with Miss S to 
confirm my initial thoughts.
I note another loan provider accepted a loan taken out with them was taken out fraudulently. 
Ive seen correspondence confirming this dated November 2019. Im also aware that Miss S 
has accepted the outcome our investigator reached on another case of hers involving a 
further loan application.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered detailed evidence provided to us by RateSetter 
and L which includes records of Miss Ss online and mobile banking use throughout this 
period as well as the loan application. Im also aware that CIFAS, who manage the industry 
fraud database, alerted its members to a specific fraud-type happening in one specific 
overseas country. This alert also matches some of the circumstances of what happened 
here.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ive considered the following issues:
The loan application for £9,000 was made using Miss Ss genuine bank details. This 
money was credited to her bank account on 31 January 2019 and took her previously 
overdrawn account into credit. An increase to Miss Ss overdraft had already been 
granted before this but Miss S has said this wasnt her.
Different devices were linked to Miss Ss account with L over the period before the 
fraud took place. IP addresses from different countries were linked to the use. I 
stress this doesnt mean Miss S was in those countries. Rather I think the SIM card 
linked to those countries was being used.
I dont dispute Miss Ss evidence of her working history showing where she was 
during the period of the disputed transactions. Theres no doubt she didnt use her L 
debit card in the country where the vast majority of the transactions took place.
Miss S believed her card was secure in her cabin and has told us she never shared 
her online banking details. Shes told us Mr A asked other people she worked with for 
her financial information. Id have thought there were easier ways to get at this 
information.
Miss S has not suggested that her online banking and security details may have 
been compromised, nor is there anything to show she notified her bank of any 
concerns until her visit into branch after her return.
Its unclear how Miss S managed for money for the remaining six weeks if her card 
and PIN were missing. Im aware she had another current account with another bank 
but I believe disputed loan funds were also paid into that account.
Ive considered Miss Ss point that this all took place without her knowledge but I find this 
hard to believe. Its unclear to me how all her security details for her online banking could 
have been compromised as well as her debit card being taken and used with the PIN, 
without her having shared that information.
Miss Ss story (on another complaint) that her card was swallowed by a cash machine 
doesnt hang together Im afraid.
A possible scenario is that Miss S was persuaded by Mr A to allow her details to be used. 
She may not even have known exactly what that use would entail. However this would mean 
that Miss S had allowed someone else to use her bank account to apply for the loan and use 
her cards to spend all the money. I think its most likely she may even have been told that as 
shed not taken out the loan, she wouldnt have to repay it. This isnt the case as it seems 
that Miss S in allowing the use of her cards and account had authorised the fraud to take 
place. 
I cant ignore evidence on another complaint which shows she changed her story and didnt 
contact the loan provider for some time. I also cant ignore the similarity of Miss Ss 
complaint to others that banks and loan providers have been warned about.I appreciate Miss S believes shes been the victim here but Im not sure, on balance, I agree. 
I believe she was aware something was going on  although perhaps not the full detail. She 
didnt expect to be held liable as she hadnt made the application  and I think thats most 
likely the case  but overall I believe she authorised the loan to be taken out in her name.
I note that the overall debt that Miss S will be expected to repay is an extremely large 
amount of money and so really appreciate her distress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ss complaint against 
Retail Money Market Limited, trading as RateSetter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman