DRN-3363774
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H made a claim under her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen in March 2021. 
Aviva looked into the claim and initially turned it down. It wasnt happy about the 
circumstances surrounding the theft of Ms Hs car.
So, Ms H complained to Aviva and then this service about the delay and the fact that her 
claim had been turned down. While Ms Hs complaint was under consideration by this 
service Aviva changed its mind and settled the claim and it offered her £200 compensation 
for its delay in dealing with the claim. Ms H has raised a separate complaint about the 
valuation of her car which is being investigated by Aviva. 
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. She thought that 
Avivas offer of compensation didnt go far enough, and she asked it to increase the 
compensation to £400. And she asked Aviva to pay 8% simple interest from the date Aviva 
agreed to pay the claim until the date of settlement.
Ms H accepted the investigators position. But Aviva felt that its offer of £200 compensation 
was fair and highlighted that Ms H contributed to some of the delay in dealing with the claim. 
It also said that it shouldnt have to pay simple interest, and if it did have to pay interest it 
should only be up to the date it offered to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
As Aviva didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. And as Aviva has now agreed to 
settle the claim I wont go over the finer details of the circumstances surrounding the theft. 
But Ill concentrate on the delay and poor service provided by Aviva and whether its offer of 
£200 compensation is fair.
Aviva is entitled to make reasonable enquiries following a theft claim under the policy. And 
having looked at this case I can understand why its investigation was necessary. It 
appointed an investigator to consider the circumstances surrounding the theft, interviewed 
Ms H, and gained information from the police. And while I can understand this I think that its 
investigation took too long and ultimately it was happy that the theft was genuine and looked 
to settle the claim.
Aviva has acknowledged some of its delays when it offered £200 by way of compensation. 
But I agree with our investigator that the compensation level should be increased. I accept 
that Ms H may have contributed to some of the delay, but she was left without a car, chasing 
the claim and in a difficult position for a period of about eight months. So, I feel £400 (total), 
including loss of use, seems fair in the circumstances.
Finally, our investigator outlined that Aviva should look to pay interest from the date it agreed 
to pay the claim until the date of payment. However, and Ive communicated with Aviva 
separately about this, I actually think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Aviva to pay 
interest for the time Ms H has been without payment (the date of loss) until the date it made 
its without prejudice offer. I say this because Ms H was without the money due under the 
policy from the date of loss until Aviva made its settlement offer. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Ms H £400 compensation and to pay 8% simple interest from 
the date of loss until it made its settlement offer to Ms H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman