DRN-4136681
The complaint
Mr K complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) increased his car insurance premium 
after hed already agreed on a renewal price. 
What happened
Mr K received a quote to renew his policy. Following this, and before the renewal date, Mr K 
was involved in a minor accident which he reported to Zurich. Mr K then accepted the 
renewal. After the renewal date, Mr K was notified by Zurich that he would be charged an 
additional premium of £159 for the accident. Mr K complained about this and said his policy 
includes 22 years No-Claims Discount (NCD) which is protected, so this shouldve 
prevented his premium increasing following an accident. Mr K said he reported the accident 
to Zurich prior to his renewal date so they had the opportunity to amend the price. 
Zurich responded and explained Mr K was involved in an accident on 22 August, his renewal 
date was 28 August and he informed them of the accident on 29 August. They explained the 
initial renewal price Mr K received was on the basis of the information Zurich had at the time 
but, after they informed the broker of the accident on 7 September, this led to a 
reassessment which in turn led to an increase in price. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought Zurich hadnt acted unfairly in 
increasing Mr Ks premium, but he felt they shouldve better managed his expectations 
around this. Our investigator recommended Zurich pay £100 compensation for this. Mr K 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr K will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
 
I can see Mr K was quoted £522.41 to renew his policy, having paid £454.27 the previous 
year. Following the renewal invite, but before the renewal date started, Mr K was involved in 
an accident which he reported to Zurich. This then led to an increase of £159 to Mr Ks 
premium  which Zurich requested after the renewal date. 
I understand why Mr K is concerned. He has agreed a price and then an incident has 
occurred which an insurer will need to know about. Mr K has then informed Zurich about this 
incident before the renewal date, and the renewal has then started based on the terms and 
price which Mr K agreed. Mr K has then been approached for an additional premium.   
I think its important here to look at the timeline of events. At the point the renewal invite was 
sent to Mr K, the price was based on the relevant risk ratings and loadings applied by Zurich. 
The accident happened six days before the renewal was due to start and Mr K reported it to 
Zurich two days before the renewal date. In view of the short period of time between the 
reporting and renewal date, I dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich not to have 
reassessed the policy premium and provide Mr K with a revised price taking into account the 
claim, before the renewal started. This was done just under two weeks later  and shortly 
after Zurich informed the broker about the claim, which I dont think is unreasonable in the 
circumstances.  
The next point Ive considered is the increase itself. I understand Mr K feels Zurich havent 
acted fairly as he has 61 years driving experience without ever having any points on his 
licence. He says he has earned 22 years NCD and also paid to protect this, so he feels its 
unfair for Zurich to then increase his premium following a minor accident. I can see Zurich 
say the protected NCD is designed to protect a policyholders accrued years and associated 
discount for not having an accident. They say, this in turn means that, in the event of a claim, 
a policyholders NCD is not stepped back - which would result in an increase in premium. 
They say this is different to the reason for the premium increase here as this is driven by the 
various statistical models their pricing team use in relation to the likelihood of another 
accident happening. 
Zurich have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how     
Mr Ks renewal price was impacted by the claim. Im afraid I cant share this with Mr K 
because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And Im satisfied the price 
increase here has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that Mr K 
has been treated differently to other Zurich customers in Mr Ks position. I acknowledge Mr K 
feels its unfair that he has built up 22 years NCD, yet a claim has affected his premium. 
Zurich have explained how the protected NCD works and, even though a claim wont lead to 
the NCD being stepped back, it doesnt mean that an insurer wont then apply a risk rating 
for a claim being made on a policy. Its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared 
to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks. While we dont have the power to 
direct a business on what their risk model should look like, we can look to see whether 
theyve acted fairly. And, in this case, I dont think Zurich have acted unfairly in carrying out a 
reassessment to take into account the claim and increasing Mr Ks premium. 
I do appreciate Mr K will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a copy of the premium 
calculations used by Zurich. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an 
insurers explanation will often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Zurich have acted 
unreasonably in not providing Mr K with the information he requested. 
In their complaint response, Zurich claimed Mr K reported the accident after the renewal 
date. I can see Mr K wants Zurich to acknowledge this is incorrect. This does appear to be 
an error on the part of Zurich as theyve confirmed to our service that Mr K did report the 
accident to them before the renewal date. 
While I dont think its unreasonable for Zurich to charge an additional premium once they 
carried out a reassessment, I do think they missed an opportunity to better manage Mr Ks 
expectations around this. 
When Mr K reported the accident to Zurich, I believe it wouldve been clear to the call 
handler that Mr Ks policy was set to renew in a couple of days. And I think its reasonable to 
expect the call handler shouldve explained to Mr K that the claim, after being recorded on 
their system, would likely lead to a reassessment of the premium. It appears there was a 
further phone call between Mr K and Zurich on the renewal date, and Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr K was told during this call about the likelihood of a reassessment in light of the claim 
hed made on his policy. So, Mr K was caused confusion and upset when receiving notice of 
a premium increase, particularly as Zurich missed opportunities to manage Mr Ks expectations. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Zurich to pay Mr K 
compensation of £100. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the increased premium 
led him to complain. But I hope my reasoning provides him with reassurance that he hasnt 
been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the same circumstances. I wish to 
reassure Mr K Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Zurich didnt manage Mr Ks expectations about the premium 
increase so they should pay Mr K £100 compensation for the confusion and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Zurich Insurance PLC must pay Mr K 
compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman