DRN-4440755
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted his credit card account and sold it to a debt
recovery agency.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr D had a Lloyds credit account that was in arrears. In September
2022, Mr D contacted Lloyds and agreed a three-month nil-payment plan with them. This
plan meant that Lloyds accepted that Mr D might not make any payments towards the
account for three-months and wouldnt chase him for not doing so.
A few months later, in November 2022, Mr D received a default notice from Lloyds which
explained that they were considering defaulting his account. Mr D contacted Lloyds and was
told he didnt need to worry about the default notice because he was on the nil-payment
plan. And, when Mr D contacted Lloyds in December 2022, at the end of the plan, he agreed
a new ten-month payment plan with them. However, shortly afterwards, Mr D discovered that
Lloyds had defaulted his account and sold the debt to a debt recovery agency (DRA). Mr D
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr D and explained that the default notice issued in November 2022
had been issued correctly. And Lloyds further explained that they had made a mistake when
agreeing to the ten-month payment plan with Mr D in December 2022, because the default
notice had already been issued to him at that time.
As such, Lloyds didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by defaulting the account as they had, but
they did accept that theyd mistakenly led Mr D to believe that he could enter into the ten-
month payment plan with them. Lloyds apologised to Mr D for this and made a payment of
£100 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr D wasnt
satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they felt that Lloyds had mistakes
in how theyd administered Mr Ds account, they felt that the default notice had been issued
by Lloyds correctly and that Mr Ds financial position appeared to be such at that time that
there was no way he could have avoided the defaulting of his account in line with that default
notice. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 October 2023 as follows:
I note that Mr D has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his
complaint. Id like to thank Mr D for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal
dispute resolution service.
This means that if Mr D notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr D and Lloyds. Rather, it should be
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr D has explained that the three-month nil-payment arrangement he agreed with Lloyds in
September 2022 meant that Lloyds shouldnt have issued the default notice on his account
in November 2022, regardless of the account arrears. And Mr D feels this is because the nil-
payment plan meant that he was under no obligation to make a payment during that plan.
But Mr Ds understanding of the nil-payment plan isnt correct in this regard. And while the
nil-payment plan did mean that Mr D wouldnt be chased by Lloyds if he didnt make a
payment during the plan, it didnt absolve him of his contractual requirement to make
monthly payments. And it also didnt mean that Lloyds wouldnt consider defaulting his
account if he didnt make monthly payments while the plan was in place.
This was explained to Mr D in the letter which confirmed the nil-payment plan, sent by Lloyds
dated 7 September 2022, which included the following statements:
This temporary plan will not clear the amount you are behind by, and your normal
monthly payments are still due each month.
You arent bound to this plan by contract. But you are still bound to make the
monthly payments set out in your credit card agreement.
This means that we may exercise our rights under your credit card agreement if you
cant make some of your future monthly payments.
Mr D didnt make the contractually required monthly payments during the time he was in the
nil-payment plan. And this meant that the arrears that were present on the account
continued to grow during that time.
When an account is in a position of prolonged arrears, as Mr Ds account was, its generally
considered to be good industry practice for businesses such as Lloyds to begin proceedings
to default that account when the account is more than three months but less than six months
in arrears. This is in line with guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office
about the defaulting of accounts in arrears and is designed to protect consumers from falling
into an unsustainable position of account arrears wherein they would incur unfair charges
and interest.
So, in consideration of the above, Im satisfied that it was fair for Lloyds to have issued the
default notice to Mr D in November 2022. And this default notice explained that Mr D needed
to pay the arrears that had accrued on the account at that time - £1,436.39  by 30
November 2022.
But the default notice that Lloyds issued to Mr D also explained as follows:
We understand sometimes things change and were here to support you. So, if you
dont think youll be able to pay off the full amount right now, we can help you find a
plan that works for you.Mr D contacted Lloyds soon after receiving the default notice, on 18 November 2022, which
was before the 30 November 2022 deadline. Ive listened to this call, and Mr D explains to
Lloyds agent that hes received a letter from Lloyds but that he already has a payment plan
in place. Lloyds agent then looks at Mr Ds account and notes that Mr D is already on a
payment plan. And the agent then takes details from Mr D to allow her to check the letter
that Mr D was sent and then mistakenly informs Mr D that the letter is just a reminder and
that the payment plan remains in place until its scheduled end on 6 December 2022.
This was clearly an error on the part of Lloyds agent. But its also notable that Mr D referred
only to a letter being received and that he didnt explain that the letter hed received was a
default notice, which may have alerted Lloyds agent to the fact that they hadnt understood
the account situation at that time. As such, I dont feel that either Lloyds agent or Mr D
communicated effectively on the call. Although I also feel that the onus was on Lloydss
agent to have understood the position of Mr Ds account correctly.
A few weeks after this phone call, the 30 November 2022 deadline given on the default
notice passed, without Mr D having contacted Lloyds or arranged an arrears repayment plan
with them. And this ultimately led to the defaulting of the account for non-payment by Lloyds.
Mr D argues that he didnt act on the default notice because the agent he spoke with when
he called about the default notice told him he didnt have to. But, as explained, while Lloyds
agent did make a mistake here, I dont feel that Mr D provided a clear explanation to the
agent as to the nature of the letter he was calling about, and the terms of the three-month
plan that Mr D was on  and which had been clearly explained to him by Lloyds in their letter
 didnt prevent Lloyds from acting in response to continuing non-payment by Mr D.
However, given that Lloyds agent did make a mistake here, Ive considered whether Mr D
could potentially have acted to meet the requirements of the default notice, had it been
understood by the agent that action in accordance with that notice needed to be taken.
Having done so, while I dont feel its likely that Mr D would have been able to clear the full
balance of the arrears before 30 November 2022, I do feel that he would have been able to
contact Lloyds and arrange a suitable repayment plan with them. Indeed, Mr D did contact
Lloyds on 6 December 2022, when the three-month plan ended, and agreed a ten-month
plan to clear the arrears with them. And Lloyds notes regarding that plan include that it was
understood that a default notice had been issued to Mr D at that time.
Lloyds say that because the 30 November 2022 deadline given in the default notice had
passed, that they shouldnt have agreed that ten-month plan with Mr D. But given that the
plan was agreed only six-days after that deadline, and that their agent with whom Mr D
spoke with after receiving the default notice told him he didnt need to act on that notice, I
feel that Mr D could, in all likelihood, have come to the same arrangement with Lloyds before
the default notice expired, had it been confirmed to him that he needed to do so.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds have acted fairly by defaulting Mr Ds account
here in the manner that they have. And this is because I feel that if Mr D had received
accurate information from their agent during the 18 November call that Mr D would have
been able to agree an acceptable arrears payment plan with Lloyds before the 30 November
deadline given on the default notice. And it also appears that Mr D has been making the
£300 per month payments required by the ten-month plan he agreed to in December 2022.
Accordingly, my provisional instructions here are that Lloyds must recall the account from
the DRA and reinstate it, removing the default and amending Mr Ds credit file reporting as if
the ten-month repayment plan agreed in December 2022 had remained in place.Its my understanding that Mr D has now paid the ten payments of £300 as per the plan he
agreed. As such, Lloyds should contact Mr D and discuss the current position of his account
with him. Id also encourage Mr D to continue making appropriate payments towards his
account while this ongoing matter is resolved.
Finally, I feel that Lloyds actions have caused Mr D a degree of trouble and upset that he
reasonably shouldnt have incurred here. Because of this, my provisional decision also
includes that Lloyds must make a payment of £200 to Mr D, as compensation for the distress
and inconvenience that hes incurred.
In arriving at this compensation amount, Ive considered the trouble and upset that Mr D has
incurred here as a result of the mistakes that Lloyds have made, but Ive also considered
that Mr D himself must bear some responsibility for the unclear communication that took
place on the phone calls he was a party to. Lastly, Ive also considered the general
framework which this service uses when assessing compensation amounts  details of
which are on this services website. And, taking all these factors into account, I feel that £200
is a fair compensation amount.
Both Mr D and Lloyds responded to my initial provisional decision, which led me to issue an 
updated provisional decision on 26 October 2023, as follows:
Mr D responded to my provisional decision letter and said he didnt feel it was fair that I
considered him to be partially to blame for what happened because I felt that he hadnt
clearly communicated with Lloyds agent when he spoke with them.
I dont agree with Mr Ds objection here, and it remains my position, having listened to the
call, that while an error was certainly made by Lloyds agent, this was an error that I feel
Mr D could have mitigated against by being more communicative on the call than he was.
Mr D also feels a greater award of compensation should be awarded here, beyond the £200
that I provisionally instructed, in part because he has been unable to re-mortgage his house
while the default had been present on his credit file. However, it should be recognised that
the award of £200 was compensation for upset and inconvenience, whereas Mr D not being
able to re-mortgage his house would be an instance of a consequential loss  that is, a loss
that he has occurred as a sole consequence of Lloyds mistakes.
This service isnt a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. And when considering claims
for consequential loss, this service generally requires that it be demonstrated that the loss
has been incurred solely as a result of the business error.
But Im not convinced this criteria can be met in this instance. Firstly, there can be many
reasons why a re-mortgage application might not be successful, and so it would need to be
shown that the sole factor was the default on Mr Ds credit file. Secondly, the loss would
need to be demonstrable and not speculative. That is to say that Mr D would need to be able
to provide a mortgage application quote or rejection which would definitively crystalise any
claimed loss amount.
Additionally, given that I continue to feel that Mr D does bear a partial responsibility for what
happened here, as explained above, Im not convinced that Lloyds fairly should be
considered solely responsible for any consequential losses he may have incurred, even if
the criteria outlined above could be met. And for all these reasons, as well as those
previously outlined in my provisional decision letter, I continue to feel that £200 is a fair
compensation amount.Lloyds also responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that they accepted the
general spirit of it. However, Lloyds indicated that they were no longer willing to provide
ongoing credit to Mr D and so suggested that, besides removing the default from Mr Ds
credit file and paying the £200 compensation, that they recall the balance of Mr Ds account
from the DRA without reinstating the account and that Mr D should then come to an
arrangement with them to clear the balance that remains outstanding.
When its decided that a business has made a mistake, the remit of this service is to restore
the affected complainant, as much as reasonably possible, to the position they should be in,
had the mistake never occurred. And given this remit, instructing Lloyds to reinstate Mr Ds
account would appear to meet this remit most accurately.
However, its for a credit provider such as Lloyds to decide whether theyre willing to
continue to provide credit to any specific individual. And if I did instruct Lloyds to reinstate
Mr Ds account, there would be nothing to fairly prevent Lloyds from giving Mr D notice that
they intended to close his account in the near future, in line with their right to do so as
stipulated in the account terms and conditions.
As such, I feel that Lloyds suggestion here is a fair outcome to this complaint. And so, my
amended provisional decision is that Lloyds must recall the balance of Mr Ds account from
the DRA and remove all adverse reporting relating to the account from Mr Ds credit file.
Lloyds should then contact Mr D to arrange an affordable repayment plan with him to clear
the outstanding balance that he owes. And given that the account would not be reinstated,
meaning that Mr D would have no further usage of the credit account, the balance that Mr D
owes should not be subject to any ongoing interest.
It would be expected that Mr D would be required to complete an income and affordability
assessment with Lloyds to determine that amount he can reasonably afford to repay. It
would also be expected that Lloyds would make credit file reports regarding that balance
which would not include any adverse reporting so long as Mr D adheres to any repayment
plan that is agreed.
Finally, Lloyds must make a payment of £200 to Mr D as compensation for the trouble and
upset this matter has caused.
Both Mr D and Lloyds confirmed that they were happy to accept my updated provisional 
decision. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here whereby I uphold this 
complaint in Mr Ds favour on the basis described above. And I therefore confirm that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Lloyds must recall the balance of Mr Ds account from the DRA and remove all adverse 
reporting relating to the account from Mr Ds credit file.
Lloyds should then contact Mr D to arrange an affordable repayment plan with him to clear
the outstanding balance that he owes  which should not be subject to any ongoing interest.
It would be expected that Mr D would be required to complete an income and affordability
assessment with Lloyds to determine that amount he can reasonably afford to repay. It
would also be expected that Lloyds would make credit file reports regarding that balance
which would not include any adverse reporting so long as Mr D adheres to any repaymentplan that is agreed.
Finally, Lloyds must make a payment of £200 to Mr D as compensation for the trouble and
upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman