DRN-2889886
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under the home emergency part of her insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs N made a claim under her insurance policy with Aviva. And the complaint about how the 
claim was dealt with was considered separately by Aviva and this Service. However, she 
remained unhappy about the compensation it awarded in acknowledgement of the stress 
and inconvenience she faced due to the delays and poor service she received which she 
advanced as a separate complaint.
Aviva apologised to Mrs N, gave her a bunch of flowers and offered her £800 compensation 
in acknowledgement of the poor service provided. But Mrs N still wasnt happy about this 
and felt that she should be awarded more than double what Aviva had offered so she 
complained to this service about this as well.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He accepted that 
Mrs N had been provided with poor service and that the delays had caused her stress and 
inconvenience, but he thought that Avivas offer of compensation, alongside sending her a 
bunch of flowers, was fair. 
Mrs N didnt agree and felt that the stress had caused her migraines and inconvenience, so 
the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of the complaint which is well 
known to both sides. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
I must highlight that this complaint and decision will focus on the key remaining issue which 
is whether the level of compensation offered by Aviva is fair. And while I can understand why 
Mrs N wants more, I think its offer of £800 is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
It must have been stressful and annoying for Mrs N to have spent a lot of hours on the 
phone dealing with a difficult claim. I can understand this especially as the claim was drawn 
out over a number of months and impacted on her summer. And Mrs N has said that she 
was caused migraines by the issues she faced in advancing the claim and Avivas failings. 
So I can understand why she wants compensation for her time, stress and phone bills.
But I think Avivas offer to pay £800 compensation (increased from its initial offer of £400) 
alongside a bunch of flowers by way of apology seems fair. I say this as I dont think any 
amount of money would compensate Mrs N for the level of stress and inconvenience she 
feels she faced. But this services awards are generally modest and so I think £800 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. Indeed, it is probably more than this service would 
generally award in cases like this, so I think its offer feels fair in the circumstances. I know 
Mrs N also feels that she should have had a separate apology, but I think this was Avivas 
intention when it sent the flowers, so I think it acted fairly here.
So, although I know how disappointed Mrs N will be and I can understand why she feels 
more compensation is warranted, I feel Avivas offer is fair in the circumstances. There is 
always a fair degree of stress and inconvenience in advancing insurance claims, especially 
when the claim is difficult to resolve as it was in this instance. And so, given all of this, I wont 
be asking Aviva to increase its offer or to do anymore here.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman