DRN-3447507
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse the funds she lost when 
she fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
In 2019, Ms C decided to invest in cryptocurrency after seeing an advertisement about it on 
the internet. She says that she registered her interest and was subsequently telephoned by 
an individual claiming to be from Coinipop. It isnt entirely clear whether Ms C spoke to a 
representative of Coinipop  a cryptocurrency exchange platform  or an individual from a 
Coinbits  a cryptocurrency broker  whom she opened an account and had dealings with.
Once Ms C set up an account with Coinbits, payments were made to Coinipop, Coinbase 
and Kraken through her debit card and bank account. It is my understanding that all three 
firms are legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platforms. Ms C says she was told by Coinbits 
that she would get a monthly return on her investment, starting with £1,500 and increasing to 
£2,500. She was also told that she could withdraw her money at any time.
Ms C says she was persuaded by her account manager at Coinbits to investment more 
money after seeing the profits that were supposedly being made. During this time, she 
received two credits  for £119.05 and £1,053  which were paid into her account with a 
different bank. A third credit, for £1,500, was loaded onto her Coinbase card.
The following relevant transactions were made from Ms Cs HSBC account between May 
and July 2019: 
Date (bank 
statement)Type Merchant Amount
3 May Debit card Coinipop.com £250
3 May Debit card Coinipop.com £2,500
28 May Bank transfer CB Payments Ltd £2
29 May Debit card Coinipop.com £5,000
29 May Debit card Coinipop.com £9,000
29 May Debit card Coinipop.com £5,000
31 May Credit CB Payments Ltd £1 (credit)
6 June Foreign 
paymentKraken Payward Ltd £25,000 
(plus £4 payment charge)
10 June Debit card Coinbase £5
12 June Foreign 
paymentKraken Payward Ltd £25,000 
(plus £4 payment charge)
12 June Foreign 
paymentKraken Payward Ltd £25,000 
(plus £4 payment charge)
14 June Foreign 
paymentKraken Payward Ltd £50,000 
(plus £4 payment charge)
18 June Foreign 
paymentKraken Payward Ltd £50,000 
(plus £4 payment charge)
3 July Debit card Coinipop.com £5,000
3 July Debit card Coinipop.com £5,000
Total payments £206,756 
(plus £20 payment charge)
Ms C eventually realised she had been scammed when repeated withdrawal requests were 
declined. She reported the matter to HSBC. It presented a chargeback for the debit card 
payments which were successfully defended by the respective merchant. HSBC declined to 
refund the foreign payments and said that these had been authorised by Ms C. Unhappy 
with this, Ms C referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that HSBC ought to have intervened and asked Ms C suitably 
probing questions when she authorised the £5,000 payment on 29 May 2019 as it appeared 
unusual. Had it done so, Ms C would not have gone ahead with that payment, or the 
subsequent payments. It was also the investigators view that Ms C would have been able to 
provide the information necessary to meet any chargeback requirements for the previous 
debit card payments. He recommended HSBC to refund all the disputed transactions (less 
any credits or successful withdrawals), along with interest. 
I issued my provisional decision a few weeks ago. I said that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint and set out the following reasons:
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment 
disputes between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in 
this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the 
merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, 
meaning there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be 
accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Ms C was dealing with a broker called Coinbits. Given the information Ive found 
about Coinbits during my research, Im satisfied she fell victim to a scam rather than 
simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. But Ms C didnt make the 
debit card payments to Coinbits; she paid Coinipop (and Coinbase). This is important 
because HSBC was only able to chargeback against the merchant she paid, not 
another party. 
Its my understanding that Coinipop and Coinbase are legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange firms. The service provided by the exchange would be to convert Ms Cs 
payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant she made the payments to 
did provide the service that had been requested. That the cryptocurrency was later 
transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback 
claim. 
Although HSBC did present a chargeback initially, I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not progressing it to arbitration when the claim was successfully 
defended by the merchant  it didnt have any reasonable prospect of success. Much 
for the same reason, Im also not persuaded that HSBC would have been successful 
in recovering the first two debit card payments in the way the investigator suggested 
in his view.  
In relation to the foreign payments, HSBC has said that it contacted the beneficiary 
bank to recover Ms Cs monies when she asked for assistance, but it didnt return 
any funds. I dont find it surprising that funds couldnt be subsequently recovered. Scammers usually remove funds immediately to avoid the possibility of them being 
recovered.
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Ms Cs funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might 
be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Ms C using her legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which she is liable 
unless theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect her, and that this would have made a difference to her decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. HSBC 
ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at 
risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial 
harm from fraud.
Ive considered the operation of Ms Cs account in the months leading up to the 
disputed payments. In my view, the first three payments werent particularly unusual 
or suspicious such that I think HSBC ought to have intervened. But the payments on 
29 May 2019 were substantially higher than other transactions on Ms Cs account. 
Certainly, by the time she authorised the second payment (£9,000) on that day, 
I consider it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned 
Ms C before processing it. The proximity and the substantial increase in value of the 
payment to a cryptocurrency exchange ought to have triggered its systems. 
HSBC has told us the payments didnt trigger its systems. So, an opportunity to 
intervene and provide a scam warning was missed. But that is not the end of the 
matter. 
Causation is a critical determinative factor in every fraud case. It isnt enough that a 
payment service provider failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions 
must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably 
foreseeable at the time of the breach. While I think that HSBC missed an opportunity 
to intervene and provide a warning to Ms C, this doesnt mean it automatically 
becomes responsible for her loss. I would also need to be satisfied that the breach 
would have made a difference to Ms Cs decision-making. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if HSBC had questioned Ms C 
about the £9,000 payment before executing it. In such situations, I reach my 
conclusions not based on mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened 
considering the evidence and wider circumstances of the case. This includes taking 
into consideration actions that were taken. 
The investigator thought that a warning from HSBC would likely have unravelled the 
scam and prevented Ms C from making further payments. But I dont share this view. 
Ive noted that when he made an introductory call to her in October 2021, Ms C told 
the investigator that shed originally tried to make payments through an account held 
with another bank. But that bank stopped the payments and provided her with a 
scam warning. More recently, when the investigator sought further clarification, Ms C 
mentioned that at the time the other bank warned her about customers losing money 
with cryptocurrency firms. 
Ive seen the relevant bank statements of Ms Cs account with the other bank. Three 
payments totalling £25,000 in connection to this scam left her account on 3 May 
2019, but the funds were credited back the very same day. 
Given that Ms C went ahead with a payment on 3 May 2019 from her HSBC account 
despite being warned about the possibility of being defrauded by another bank, 
I consider it more likely than not that any contact or further discussion with HSBC a 
few weeks later would not have made a difference to her decision-making. Ms C 
didnt heed any warnings from one bank. It is my judgement that it is unlikely she 
would have heeded any warnings or risks that HSBC might have put forward in this 
regard. So, Im not persuaded that an intervention would have stopped Ms C from 
going ahead with the payments. 
I know that Ms C will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time and our investigator previously upheld this 
complaint. I acknowledge that Ms C has experienced personal difficulties since losing 
a very large amount of money to a cruel scam. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse the money 
she lost. Any failure on HSBCs part in relation to not spotting the disputed payments 
as unusual or out of character is not the dominant, effective cause of Ms Cs loss. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties.
We havent heard from HSBC, so Ive assumed it has nothing further to add.
Ms C has said that she thinks my decision seems to be based on a conversation she had 
with another bank. And in response to what Ive said about an intervention from HSBC 
unlikely to make a difference to her decision-making, Ms C has said that it would as she 
genuinely believed she was dealing with Coinipop and not Coinbits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms C for her comments which Ive carefully considered. Having done so, my outcome 
remains unchanged. As I explained in my provisional decision, I cant know for certain what 
would have happened if HSBC had questioned Ms C about the £9,000 payment. But I do 
need to consider that hypothetical scenario. In doing so, Ive weighed up the evidence and testimony provided by both parties to find, on 
the balance of probabilities, what is more likely than not to have happened had the 
intervention occurred. I cant disregard the fact that Ms C had already ignored an 
intervention from another bank prior to making payments from her HSBC account. This 
action appears to me to be that of a person aware of the potential risks of fraud.
Ms C says she genuinely believed that she was dealing with Coinipop. Given that the 
merchant for the payment in question was Coinipop, meaning any HSBC would have made 
were likely to have been about it, I think it is unlikely that an intervention would have broken 
the spell Ms C was under such that it would have made her take a step back and ultimately 
not follow through with the transactions.
So, it remains the case that I find it unreasonable to expect HSBC to refund Ms C the funds 
she lost as a result of fraud.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman