DRN-1972629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about work UK Insurance Limited (UKI) carried out as part of a 
Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to UKI also include their agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr and Mrs Ts front path was damaged relating to subsidence issues and in 2010 the path 
was repaired by UKI.
Around 2012 Mr and Mrs T made a further claim for subsidence. In their report, one of the 
things noted by UKI was the front path wasnt draining water from the surface, leaving a pool 
by the front step. 
The claim was eventually cash settled between Mr and Mrs T and UKI in 2016  which 
included a payment for repairs to be made to the path.
Mr and Mrs T had substantial work completed to the property in 2016 which involved 
underpinning the property. The work was carried out by Mr and Mrs Ts own contractors but 
paid for by UKI. Part of payment related to repairs being made to the path. Photos were 
taken at the time which UKI said showed the path being in good order.
Following this work, Mr and Mrs T said the paths condition deteriorated  including around 
the edges of the path and by an area where previous drainage issues had been identified. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs T asked a Tiler to look at the path and provide a quote for repairs. The 
Tiler said while the tiles themselves were of good quality, theyd identified several issues 
such as how the tiles had been laid  and with the technique used to adhere them. 
Mr and Mrs T raised a complaint with UKI regarding the construction of the path. They feel 
poor construction of the path by UKIs contractors in 2010 caused the damage, so they think 
UKI should pay to have the matter put right. They said the report arranged by UKI in 2012 
confirmed there were issues with the construction of the path.
UKI arranged for an inspection of the path to be completed in 2019. This said there possibly 
could be issues with poor construction of the path, but further subsidence was ruled out. UKI 
concluded they werent liable for the cost of repairing the path. They said photos they took 
around 2015 show the pathway in a good state of repair, so they didnt accept the paths 
current condition was connected to the repairs completed in 2010.
Our investigator acknowledged the report provided by Mr and Mrs Ts tiler highlighted issues 
with the repairs carried out on the path. But as this report wasnt produced until around nine 
years after the work was carried out, and the photos provided by UKI from 2015 showed the 
path to be in a good state of repair, she wasnt persuaded the present condition of the path 
was due to poor workmanship from UKI in 2010.
She didnt recommend we uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator. They said earlier reports noted there were 
defects from the construction of the path. They said the photos taken in 2015 were for a 
different purpose so didnt and provide a reasonable chance of identifying the problems 
theyd reported regarding the path.
Mr and Mrs T have also provided further comments and photos of the path for consideration.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have provided numerous submissions to support their complaint and I want to 
assure them Ive read and considered them all carefully. However, I hope Mr and Mrs T 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have 
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
Mr and Mrs T, and by UKI, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case.
Having done so I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I know my decision will be 
disappointing to them, but Ill explain why.
The 2012 report provided by UKI says:
Externally at the front to the previously repaired front steps and path, there was a sign of 
differential movement between the top step and the shallower footed bottom two steps. This 
will recur due to the manner of the original construction. The front path is undamaged but is 
not draining the surface leaving a pool by the front step.
I agree the report mentions the possibility of a defect relating to the original construction, but 
I think this is referring to the steps  not the path. UKI said there was no damage to the path 
but wasnt draining surface water. So, Im not persuaded this means the construction of the 
path was inadequate  or that the report says it was.
UKI provided photos of the path, taken around 2015. Mr and Mrs T say these photos were 
taken for a different purpose, so wouldnt provide a reasonable chance of identifying the 
damage. But I dont agree. There are several photos of the path, taken from different angles 
and they show the parts of the path that had been raised with UKI. So even though they 
were taken for a different purpose I think they fairly show what the path looked like at the 
time  and from these photos I cant see any signs of the damage described which I would 
have expected to, given the length of time that had already passed. So, Im not persuaded 
the issues described by Mr and Mrs T relate to work carried out by UKI when they repaired 
the path in 2010.
The findings provided by Mr and Mrs Ts tiler highlight issues with the laying of the path. But 
these have been provided a considerable amount of time after the paths construction. I also 
note Mr and Mrs T had underpinning work carried out around the front of their property in 
2016  which was carried out independently  not by UKI.Considering the type of work usually involved in underpinning and the close proximity of the 
works location to the path, I think it more likely than not the pathway wouldve been affected 
in some way  and Ive not seen anything that persuades me this wasnt the case.
The payment made by the business to Mr and Mrs T in 2016 also included a payment for 
repairs to the path. So, its clear Mr and Mrs Ts contractor also carried out work on the path 
in 2016.
Having reviewed all the available evidence, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T have shown the 
damage is a result of the poor workmanship of UKIs contractor in 2010. I think, based on 
what Ive explained above, its plausible the damage could similarly have resulted from the 
work Mr and Mrs Ts own contractors undertook in 2016, which I cant hold UKI responsible 
for. 
So, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman