DRN-1978949
The complaint
Mrs J complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA Finance), trading as Citroen Motor 
Insurance, mis-sold her a regular premium life and critical illness policy. 
What happened
Mrs J entered into a hire purchase agreement for a vehicle in 2007. She was sold the policy 
in connection with this agreement at the same time.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Js complaint because she thought the policy wasnt suitable for 
Mrs J and so PSA Finance shouldnt have recommended it to her. 
PSA Finance didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. I will now go on to explain why. 
PSA Finance accept they advised Mrs J to take the policy. Based on the documentation Ive 
seen, including in particular the summary of needs review document completed at the time 
of the sale, Im satisfied that PSA Finance recommended the life and critical illness cover to 
Mrs J. This means PSA Finance were under a duty to take adequate steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mrs J. 
However, I dont think that PSA Finance did take all the steps as they shouldve. And I dont 
think the policy was suitable for Mrs J. I will now explain why. 
The purpose of a life policy wouldve been to protect someone other than Mrs J. So in order 
to establish whether Mrs J had a need for a life policy, PSA Finance shouldve asked Mrs J 
questions like: 
- whether Mrs J had any assets; 
- whether there was anyone Mrs J wanted to protect financially. By this, I mean someone 
who was financially connected to her or dependent on her  so that they wouldnt lose out 
financially by her assets being used to pay of her outstanding debts; 
- And even then, given that this was a hire purchase agreement and Mrs J wouldnt have 
owned the car outright until she had made all the required payments for ownership to pass, 
the car couldve been returned and so the estate wouldnt necessarily have lost out. Then 
the question wouldve been if she had a particular need for someone else to have use of her 
car in the unfortunate event of her death. 
PSA Finance have given us a copy of the demands and needs questionnaire completed with 
Mrs J. I cant see that this document wouldve prompted the advisor to obtain the above 
information. In relation to life and critical illness cover it only asks have you increased your 
life and critical illness policies to cover you specifically for the new balance? And following 
from this the representative goes on to advise Mrs J to take life and critical illness cover: A 
need has been established that you wish to ensure that your family's lifestyle is maintained 
should you die or should you be diagnosed with a critical illness before the end of the term of 
the finance agreement, therefore I recommend you purchase Life and Critical Illness 
Payment Protection Cover. However, it is unclear how answering no to the above question 
in the demands and needs questionnaire led the representative to come to the 
recommendation that she did and for the reasons that she did.
Had PSA Finance asked the questions that they shouldve at the time of selling the policy, 
they wouldve known that Mrs J was not married, had no mortgage, had no one who was 
financially dependant on her and no one who appeared to have had a particular need for the 
car. So given Mrs Js circumstances at the time of the sale, it seems to me she was paying 
for a policy which wasnt of benefit to her. 
So Im not satisfied the life policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs J. And even if she 
may have agreed to take the policy out on PSAs recommendation, this didnt discharge PSA 
Finance from their duty to make a suitable recommendation. I think its unlikely that Mrs J 
would have taken the policy out if it hadnt been recommended to her as it wouldn't have 
been of good value for money in her circumstances. 
PSA Finance say that the customer declaration stated that the salesman has not analysed 
my/our personal financial situation. However, given that they were providing a 
recommendation, it was their responsibility to ensure that they had gathered sufficient 
information from Mrs J to be able to make the recommendation. And I dont think the 
customer declaration absolves PSA Finance of that responsibility.  
I appreciate that Mrs J also had critical illness cover under the policy but given that I 
consider the life cover to have been unsuitable for Mrs J and this was a crucial part of the 
policy, I think the policy was mis-sold as a whole. 
Based on the above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
PSA Finance have said that the adjudicator didnt consider other complaint points raised by 
Mrs J, however, given that Im upholding the complaint for the reasons already set out, there 
is no need for me to consider the other specific complaint points raised by Mrs J.
Putting things right
PSA Finance should put Mrs J in the position hed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and PSA Finance should: 
 Pay Mrs J the amount she paid each month for the PPI. 
 Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
 If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, PSA Finance can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. I know that PSA Finance made an offer to refund some of the commission it received for Mrs 
Js premiums. If this has already been paid to Mrs J, PSA Finance can take off what she got 
for the commission from the amount it owes her.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance to take off tax from this interest. PSA 
Finance must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Js complaint against PSA Finance UK Limited and require them to pay Mrs J 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman