DRN-3645260
The complaint
Mr T  a company director of M  complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided their 
insurance policy and refused to pay the claim. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
M took out a Property Investors Protection Plan policy with AXA in 2017 via a broker for 
commercial units. In 2018, a fire occurred which caused significant damage to unit one, and 
unit two was also damaged. 
When assessing the claim, AXA says M declared its directors didnt have any County Court 
Judgements (CCJs). And M hadnt volunteered information that unit one was undergoing 
renovation works  from a cowshed to a dwelling. They say extensive works had been 
undertaken to unit one which M declared was being used as a storage unit for building 
materials. They also say M didnt have the appropriate authority to develop unit one, given 
the local council had declined a planning application in 2015, as works were already 
underway prior to any approval. 
AXA considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to 
avoid the policy, and refund Ms premiums paid, which they did. 
Mr T brought a complaint to our service on Ms behalf. He says the previous CCJs had been 
satisfied and hadnt agreed with AXAs statement regarding this dishonestly. He also says 
unit one has undergone building works for several years, but the unit remains a storage unit 
for building materials. He also says no plans were confirmed as to the future usage of the 
unit. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought M 
had a duty to answer questions correctly when the policy was taken out, and to volunteer 
information about the works being undertaken to unit one. She thought AXA provided 
sufficient information from a senior underwriter that confirmed had M provided details about 
the CCJs and refurbishment works to unit one, they wouldnt have offered to provide 
insurance cover. 
Mr T didnt agree and provided an opinion from a barrister. This says they didnt think  on 
the evidence  AXA had demonstrated they wouldnt have covered M. As Mr T didnt agree, 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several issues have been 
raised. I will, however, focus on the issues which are  in my opinion  relevant to reaching a 
fair outcome to this complaint. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.  
A key finding I must make is whether I think AXA treated M unfairly and should reconsider 
the claim. Or, whether AXA has demonstrated M made a qualifying misrepresentation when 
required to give a fair presentation of risk, and wouldnt have covered M under any terms. 
When M purchased the policy, it had a responsibility under the Insurance Act 2015 to make 
a fair presentation of risk. AXA says M didnt do this and made whats known as a qualifying 
breach. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015 a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a 
remedy against the policyholder because they would either not have sold them the policy 
(which AXA says would have happened here), or would have done so  but on different 
terms. 
AXA says Mr T  a company director of M  had two satisfied CCJs. And when the policy 
was incepted, M declared that: It has been confirmed that the Directors of [M] have not been 
a Director of a company that has gone into liquidation, have not been declared bankrupt nor 
do they have any CCJs and neither do they have any criminal convictions. 
Mr T says he didnt think he needed to declare any previous CCJs to AXA because they had 
been satisfied. However, given Mr T did have two previous CCJs  regardless of whether 
these were satisfied  its clear this statement wasnt correct. Mr T says this wasnt declared 
dishonestly, which AXA appear to agree with in any case given they say the breach was 
careless. 
A second factor here is the usage of unit one and the refurbishment works Mr T says had 
been undertaken over several years. Mr T says, although refurbishment works took place, 
the usage of the unit never changed, and no future plans of the usage had been confirmed. 
AXA says extensive building works had been undertaken to unit one which shouldnt be 
considered as general repair works. They say the unit was previously a cowshed but was in 
the process of being converted into a dwelling. To support this, they say Mr T had applied for 
planning permission, but this was refused by the local council as works had already been 
undertaken before it could benefit from a prior approval process. 
Although Mr T maintains the usage of unit one has never changed, I must keep in mind the 
onus on M to volunteer information to AXA under The Insurance Act 2015, which includes 
(as set out by our investigator): 
Everything M knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the judgement of 
AXA in deciding whether to insure the risk  and on what terms; or 
Enough information to put AXA on notice that further enquiries would be required 
about potential material circumstances. 
Mr Ts evidence hes presented as part of the complaint suggests AXA hasnt demonstrated 
that, had M disclosed this information to them at inception, they wouldnt have offered to 
insure M at all  even on different terms. 
To substantiate this, however, AXA have provided information from a senior underwriter 
which Im satisfied demonstrates had Mr T  on behalf of M  told AXA about his CCJs and 
volunteered information regarding the works being undertaken to unit one, they wouldnt 
have entered into a contract of insurance with M under any terms. It's standard approach for a policyholder  or a company director  to disclose information 
about financial matters. AXAs senior underwriter says Ms policy was a manually written 
policy, and the information regarding the CCJs alone could have led to cover being refused 
 subject to further enquiries. But, considering the ongoing refurbishment works being 
undertaken to unit one, its usage, and concerns around the appropriate planning approval, 
had M volunteered this information  as it should have  no cover would have been 
accepted under any terms. 
Therefore, and to conclude, whilst I understand why Mr T thinks AXA treated M unfairly, Im 
satisfied AXA has reasonably demonstrated through sufficient evidence from a senior 
underwriter that, M made a qualifying misrepresentation when required to give a fair 
presentation of risk under The Insurance Act 2015. As such, they were entitled to avoid the 
policy, decline Ms claim, and treat the policy as though it never existed. Ive seen AXA has 
now confirmed Ms premiums will be refunded in full, plus 8% simple interest, to recognise 
the delays caused in doing so. I think this is reasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied M made a qualifying misrepresentation. M had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of risk which it failed to do. And, Im satisfied AXA has demonstrated this was a 
qualifying breach because they wouldnt have sold the policy to M. So, I wont be requiring 
AXA to do anything further here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve Ms dispute with AXA  can do for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman