DRN-2244957
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B re-grouted the slabs on his patio using guidance from the internet. Mr B didnt remove 
some of the excess grout at the end of the process as it was getting dark by the time he 
finished. The next day, when he went to remove the excess grout, he found that it wasnt 
possible to do so. So, he contacted Aviva to make a claim under the accidental damage part 
of his policy.
Aviva accepted the claim and inspected the damage to see if the grout could be removed or 
if the patio would need to be replaced. However, while it was dealing with the claim, Aviva 
reviewed the claim again and decided to decline it because it said the damage was due to 
faulty workmanship. Mr B complained to Aviva, but it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. It said that it had made a mistake in accepting the claim in the first place and offered 
Mr B £100 compensation.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. She said 
that she thought it was unfair to apply the faulty workmanship exclusion given that Mr B had 
done the work himself. 
Aviva disagreed. It said that Mr B hadnt followed the instructions correctly and that this had 
led to the damage. It said there was no automatic difference to work being carried out by a 
professional or by a policyholder and so it didnt accept that this meant it wasnt faulty 
workmanship.
Our investigator considered this and decided not to uphold the complaint. She said that as 
Mr B hadnt followed the instructions, this had led to the damage. As she thought the 
damage wasnt caused unexpectedly, and that there were issues with how the work was 
carried out, this meant that it was appropriate to decline the claim. She also thought that 
Avivas offering of £100 compensation for accepting and then declining the claim was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the wording of Mr Bs policy to see what accidental damage covers. The policy 
defines accidental damage as Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside 
force. Ive also looked at the exclusions in this section of the policy, which included: faulty 
materials, design or poor workmanship
Mr B said that he followed online tutorials to carry out renovations to his patio. He also said 
that he used a different ratio of cement to water than that recommended in the tutorials, as 
he thought it would be better to make the cement stronger, and had left some of the cement 
on the slabs overnight rather than cleaning it off straightaway. 
I can understand that Mr B thought that this should be covered by the accidental damage 
part of his policy, as from his perspective it was unexpected, but I dont agree that it should 
be. 
The policy has an exclusion for faulty materials and poor workmanship. Mr B said he wasnt 
familiar with this type of work, which was why he watched videos about it, and that he didnt 
carry out all of the work in line with the advice given. The cement mixture used wasnt in line 
with the recommended ratio. The cement was also left on the slabs overnight and, as a 
result, couldnt be removed the next day. Aviva also said that Mr B should have tested a 
small area first and I think that was a reasonable expectation given the nature of the work 
involved. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim on the basis of this 
exclusion. 
Im aware Mr B was also unhappy that Aviva initially accepted the claim and then turned it 
down. It is reasonable for an insurer to keep a claim under review and sometimes that 
means that it will accept and then later decline the claim, which is what happened here. I 
think that Aviva offering £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B has also said that a test carried out by Aviva on part of the patio caused a bleached 
effect on the slabs that were tested and meant that the whole patio needed to be replaced. 
Aviva has said that Mr B leaving the cement mix on the tiles for the amount of time that he 
did would have bleached the slabs because they were made of a soft material. Aviva also 
confirmed that there was no bleach in the cleaning agent used. I think this is a credible 
explanation for the cause of the bleaching and that although the bleaching might only have 
been apparent on the slabs that Aviva tested, this more likely than not revealed the 
bleaching effect rather than causing it. 
Mr B also said the company that carried out the test did it on a different area of the tiles than 
had been agreed, which was on a more visible part of the patio. But thinking about all the 
evidence Ive seen, in my view, I havent seen anything that causes me to think Aviva 
bleached the slabs. I should also add that even if I did think Aviva bleached the slabs, it 
wouldnt have persuaded me that it should now pay the claim or that it should pay to replace 
the whole patio.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do 
anything further. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim for the reasons 
that it gave and for it to offer £100 compensation for accepting the claim and the declining it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman