DRN-3377936
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr Y complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs A and Mr Y took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. 
Cover under the policy began on 12 May 2019 and ended on 11 May 2020. In October 2019, 
they booked flights to a country Ill call N. They were due to travel between 6 March and 4 
April 2020.
Mrs A and Mr Y travelled abroad as planned. However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health 
Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And on 23 March 2020, the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK nationals abroad to return to 
the UK. Mrs A and Mr Ys airline cancelled their return flight the following day. Mrs A and Mr 
Y were ultimately able to arrange a repatriation flight at their own cost and flew back to the 
UK on 16 April 2020. They made a claim for the costs theyd incurred in returning to the UK.
ERGO turned down the claim. It said the only section of the policy which covered a 
policyholders enforced stay abroad was the optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE), 
which Mrs A and Mr Y hadnt chosen to take out. So it said the claim wasnt covered.
Mrs A and Mr Y were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that when they took out the policy, theyd been assured that all 
repatriation costs would be covered in the event of a claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs A and Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. She considered 
the policy terms and concluded that the only section of the policy which would cover Mrs A 
and Mr Ys situation was the TDE. As Mrs A and Mr Y hadnt opted to add this cover to their 
policy, or paid the applicable additional premium for it, she felt itd been fair for ERGO to turn 
down the claim.
Mrs A and Mr Y disagreed. They felt the policy seller had misled them about the cover 
provided by the policy and that theyd been assured theyd be covered in the event of 
repatriation being necessary. They said theyd followed UK government instructions to return 
to the UK and they hadnt deliberately changed their travel plans. They queried what the 
purpose of travel insurance was if it didnt provide cover in circumstances like these. And 
they felt ERGO was hiding behind a hidden clause to decline their claim. They also 
explained that theyd been running low on important medication and asked whether 
therefore, their claim should be treated as a medical repatriation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A and Mr Y, I think it was fair for ERGO to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, its important that I make clear that this decision will only consider whether ERGO 
acted fairly when it declined to cover Mrs A and Mr Ys claim. I wont be considering what 
happened during the sale of the policy. Thats because ERGO wasnt responsible for selling 
Mrs A and Mr Ys policy and therefore, it isnt responsible for any information Mrs A and Mr Y 
mightve been given. ERGOs role was to underwrite the policy and assess claims. The 
policy was sold by a broker. If Mrs A and Mr Y feel that their policy was mis-sold to them, 
theyd need to make a separate complaint to the broker before we could potentially look into 
that issue.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs A and Mr Ys policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
ERGO treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs A and Mr Ys policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with ERGO. I appreciate that when they took out the insurance and 
booked their trip, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have 
been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers. 
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
ERGOs obligations under its contract with Mrs A and Mr Y are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. Mrs A and Mr Y didnt take out an 
all-risks policy. This means that ERGO has set out the specific, listed insured events its 
chosen to cover in specified situations.
In this case, as a result of the change in FCDO guidance and the subsequent cancellation of 
their return flight, Mrs A and Mr Y had no choice but to extend their stay in N and arrange a 
repatriation flight. I dont doubt what a worrying time this mustve been for them and I entirely 
understand that they had little option but to remain abroad until a new return flight could be 
booked.
However, like the investigator, having looked closely at the policy terms, theres only one 
section which provides cover for a policyholders enforced stay abroad. That section is the 
TDE, which (amongst other things) provides cover of up to £1000 for the additional 
accommodation and travel expenses a policyholder incurs in returning to the UK, if their 
airline cancels their flight. But the TDE section clearly says:
PLEASE NOTE: this section of cover will only apply if you have paid the required additional 
premium and it is shown on your Validation Certificate.
And on page 7 of the policy, ERGO has set out a table of benefits titled optional sections of 
cover. Immediately underneath this heading, the policy says:
Optional Cover (available subject to additional premium and if shown on your Validation 
Certificate. 
The TDE is listed as an optional section of cover at the top of the table. 
In my view then, I think ERGO made it clear that TDE cover would only apply if a policyholder had paid an additional premium for it and if it was included on a policy schedule. 
Having looked carefully at Mrs A and Mr Ys policy certificate, I can see that the TDE hasnt 
been added and neither has an additional premium been paid for the cover. On this basis 
then, I dont think ERGO acted unfairly when it concluded that Mrs A and Mr Y didnt have 
TDE cover and as such, that the claim wasnt covered by this section of the policy.
Mrs A and Mr Y have queried whether their claim should be paid under the Emergency 
Medical and Repatriation Expenses section of the policy. Thats because they say they were 
running out of essential medication and wished to avoid recurrence of a serious medical 
condition. Ive thought about this. The policy does provide cover for a policyholders medical 
repatriation costs. However, this is in the event that such a repatriation is considered 
necessary by ERGOs medical officer and if a policyholder:
suffers sudden and unforeseen bodily injury, or illness, or dies during a trip outside your 
home country.
While I understand that Mrs A and Mr Y were worried about running out of medication, I 
dont think I could fairly find that this can or should be treated as a sudden or unforeseen 
bodily injury or illness. So I dont think I could reasonably direct ERGO to pay the claim 
under this section of the policy either.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs A and Mr Y, because I appreciate theyve 
been left out of pocket due to unforeseen and unprecedented circumstances, I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could tell ERGO to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman