DRN-2312133
The complaint
Miss A complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender. She said she was lent to irresponsibly and this 
caused her financial problems.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender in the decision.
 
What happened
We now know Miss A was given 6 loans by Mr Lender as follows: 
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 05/01/2012 27/11/2012 Payday £250 £332
2 08/12/2012 27/03/2013 Payday £400 £460
3 02/09/2013 27/01/2014 Payday £400 £520
4 27/01/2014 24/05/2014 Payday £750 £975
5 25/05/2014 27/08/2014 Payday £800 £1,040
6 27/08/2014 Outstanding Payday £1,000 £1,300
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be partially 
upheld. They said that Miss As first loan was rolled-over too many times and that all the 
later loans should never have been provided to her. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicator, but it did otherwise offer to settle the dispute. 
This wasnt accepted by Miss A and she asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss As complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss A could repay the loan she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Mr Lender was therefore required to 
establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans, not just whether the payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that she 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and reasonably 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they are 
unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Miss A, including 
assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that all this information 
showed that Miss A would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to.  I 
think the financial checks carried out by Mr Lender were probably initially quite basic ones 
and so for the first loan, it was proportionate to rely mainly of what Miss A herself was saying 
about her ability to repay. The first loan was also for a relatively moderate amount, so I dont 
think Mr Lender was wrong to offer her loan number 1.
Nevertheless, I think theres very clear evidence that Miss A soon was showing signs of 
having trouble managing money and getting into a difficult financial situation. We know, for 
example, that Mr Lender rolled-over the repayment schedule for loan 1 on 10 occasions, 
thus making an intended short-term loan a much longer one. I think after the third roll-over 
occasion in this case, it became obvious that something wasnt right. Looking at Miss As 
situation, I think Mr Lender should have altered its approach at this point. But it didnt - it 
prolonged her indebtedness. I therefore uphold her complaint from the point of the fourth roll-
over on loan number 1.
For all the later loans, despite Miss A having to roll-over her first loan 10 times, Mr Lender 
continued to lend to her. Its very hard to see why this would have been the right thing to do. 
In fact, I note these later loans actually went up in value each time. So, given the problems 
Miss A clearly had with her finances at the beginning, these later loans (numbers 2  6) were 
all unsustainable, in my view. 
In addition to all this, I think an emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 4 
onwards was also evident. This is because Miss A had been continuously lent to for more 
than 2 years by the point of loan number 4. She therefore wasnt merely borrowing to deal 
with short-term cash-flow problems; she was borrowing very regularly, to address shortfalls 
in her income and to meet an ongoing need. Miss A was having to consistently take out high 
interest, short-term lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness caused by this 
type of borrowing was harmful. So, Im also upholding the complaint regarding loans 4, 5 and 6 for these reasons. Mr 
Lender repeatedly lent to Miss A in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss A borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
  Putting things right
A) Refund any payments made by Miss A towards interest, fees and charges 
from the point of loan number 1 (at the fourth roll-over, inclusive); 
B) Mr Lender should then calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual 
payments made by Miss A calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss A as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Miss A having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled;
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and 
B should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and 
any principal already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus 
should be paid to Miss A. If there is still an outstanding balance, then Mr 
Lender should agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss A. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of any principal amounts 
already written-off;
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in relation to 
lending activity from 27 April 2012 (loan 1  fourth roll-over) onwards.  The 
overall pattern of Miss As borrowing for loans 4 - 6 mean any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove these loans 
entirely from Miss As credit file. 
If any debts were sold on by Mr Lender, it should take steps to see the above is strictly 
complied with.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give Miss A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Miss As complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put 
things right for Miss A as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman