DRN-3384163
The complaint
Miss W complains about the sale of an income protection policy by Albany Park Limited. 
What happened
Albany Park sold Miss W an income protection policy. The aim of the policy was to pay a 
monthly benefit of £1,300 for up to two years if she couldnt work because of illness or injury. 
Her initial premium was £23.66.
Miss W later stopped work after an injury. She made a claim under the policy, which was 
accepted by the insurer. However, the insurer said that she was only eligible for a monthly 
benefit of £780. This was based on her earnings for the previous three years. Unhappy with 
this, Miss W complained to Albany Park about the sale of the policy, as shed been 
expecting a monthly benefit of £1,300. 
Albany Park initially accepted it had mis-sold the policy, and it advised Miss W that it would 
top up her benefit to £1,300 per month. However, after Albany Park looked into the matter 
further, it concluded that Miss W had given it wrong information about her earnings at the 
time of sale. It said shed advised it that she earned £30,000 a year, but her income at the 
time was actually much lower than this. So Albany Park didnt think it had mis-sold the 
policy. Unhappy with this, Miss W brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded the policy had been mis-sold. She thought it wouldve been clear 
to Albany Park that Miss Ws earnings in the previous three years werent high enough to 
support a monthly benefit of £1,300. She recommended that Albany Park pay the difference 
in premium between what Miss W had paid and what she should have paid, up to the point 
that Miss Ws premiums were reduced by the insurer at the time of her claim, plus interest. 
She also recommended that Albany Park pay Miss W £200 compensation for the loss of 
expectation shed experienced.
 
Albany Park agreed to our investigators recommendations, but Miss W didnt. The matter 
has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the time of sale information, and listened to the calls that took place 
between Albany Park and Miss W. Having done so, I agree with our investigators 
conclusions, for these reasons:
The policy allowed Miss W to insure up to 70% of her earnings. As she was self-
employed, the actual benefit payable in the event of a claim would be based on the 
average of her earnings over the previous three years. 
At the time of sale, Miss W told Albany Park that she earnt £2,000 a month (or 
£24,000 a year), but she also explained her earnings in the previous three years 
were much lower than this. It ought to have been clear to Albany Park that Miss Ws 
earnings werent high enough to support a monthly benefit of £1,300. I note that on 
the application form, Albany Park incorrectly stated to the insurer that Miss Ws net 
profits for the previous three years were £24,000 in each year, which wasnt what 
Miss W had told Albany Park. Im therefore satisfied that the policy was mis-sold.
When a business makes an error, the aim of this service is to place the consumer 
back in the position they wouldve been, if not for the error (as far as possible).
When Miss W made a claim under the policy, the insurer paid her £780 benefit per 
month (based on her last three years of earnings). As the insurer recognised that she 
was over-insured, it also reduced her insured monthly benefit to £780 and monthly 
premium to £14.82.
Miss W says she wouldnt have taken out the policy at all if shed known the insurer 
would work out her benefit based on her earnings from the previous three years. 
However, its apparent that Miss W has benefited from having the policy, as a 
successful claim has been made. 
Whilst Miss W wants Albany Park to top up her monthly benefit amount to £1,300, I 
dont require it to do this. Thats because Im satisfied that Miss W wouldnt have 
been able to take out cover of £1,300 per month with another insurer (given her 
earnings, and the maximum benefit clause under these policies). 
I agree with our investigator that an appropriate outcome would be for Albany Park to 
refund the difference in premium that Miss W was paying, compared to what she 
should have been paying based on her earnings. This should be up to the date the 
insurer reduced her benefit amount and premium. 
I think Miss W was caused unnecessary inconvenience by the mis-sale, as shed 
been expecting a monthly benefit of £1,300. She was therefore very disappointed to 
learn that she wasnt eligible for this figure. I think it would be fair in these 
circumstances for Albany Park to pay £200 compensation to recognise this.  
I understand Miss W has some concerns about the insurers actions. As our 
investigator has explained, she should raise these with the insurer in the first 
instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Albany Park Limited to refund the 
difference in premium that Miss W was paying for the policy compared to what she should 
have been paying, based on her earnings. It should do this up to the date that the insurer 
reduced her premium to the correct figure. 
Interest should then be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each 
premium was paid to the date of settlement*. 
Albany Park should also pay Miss W an additional £200 compensation. 
* If Albany Park considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give Miss W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman