DRN-2700941
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Mrs C paid a monthly fee for this account 
which came with a number of benefits. Mrs C says that she was told that she had to take out 
this account in order to get a larger overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mrs Cs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mrs C did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
 
I should at this point clarify that I am only looking into the sale of the account itself. I note 
that Mrs C is also unhappy with the overdraft charges added to her account and also 
Halifaxs treatment of her financial difficulties. This is being looked into separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mrs Cs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mrs C, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs C was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that 
she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee free bank account with Halifax for 
many years, so I think that she wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an 
option for her. 
I note that Mrs C has explained that she took out the account in order to increase her 
overdraft facility and it does seem that her overdraft was increased at the time of the 
upgrade from £100 to £300. But I dont think that it is likely Mrs C was told that this was the 
only way to increase her overdraft. I say this because Mrs C had an overdraft on a fee free 
account, so wouldve known that she could have an overdraft on a fee free account. I think 
that it is more likely that Mrs C was told that by upgrading her account, she would be able to 
get a fee free overdraft up to £300. I also can see that Mrs C did say in her submissions that 
this was a benefit that interested her. 
To explain further, one of the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned 
overdraft of up to £300. This means that if a consumer stayed within their overdraft limit and 
stayed below the £300 overdraft limit, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage 
fee. The monthly fee for the URCA was £12.50, so as long as they used their overdraft 
within the £300 fee-free portion for 13 days or more each month, they were financially better 
off by having the URCA. 
At the time the account was taken out, the other major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. From what I can see, Mrs C had a need for Travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, Home Emergency cover and she used her overdraft, so couldve benefited from 
the £300 fee free portion of that. I note that Mrs C had her own breakdown cover but I think 
that she couldve cancelled it and used the cover that came with the account if she wished to 
do so. So overall, I think that Mrs C was given a fair choice to take out the account and she 
chose to do so as she was attracted to the overall package of benefits that it came with.
This account was not recommended to Mrs C this means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mrs C. But it did need to provide Mrs C with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
I dont know exactly what Halifax said or what information it gave Mrs C about the URCA. 
But I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came 
with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seems attractive to Mrs C. I also can see 
that she contacted the travel insurance provider and registered a mobile phone which 
suggests she was given at least some information on how to use the benefits that the 
account came with as well.
Mrs C has said that she was told that she would avoid all the overdraft charges on her 
account if she upgraded. I think though that Mrs C wouldve been told both at the time of the 
sale and in the literature provided to her from Halifax, that the overdraft fees would only be 
avoided if she remained under within the £300 fee free overdraft limit. 
I accept that Mrs C may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything else specific that she was not told about that I 
believe wouldve changed her decision to take out the account.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mrs C. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mrs C the account fees 
that shes been charged whilst shes held the URCA. I completely understand that this will be 
frustrating to Mrs C, as she strongly feels that her account was mis-sold. I also understand 
that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA may not have represented good value for money 
to her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this: I can only uphold the complaint about the 
sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, overall I dont 
think it was sold incorrectly.
This final decision represents the end of our services process in relation to her complaint 
about the sale of the URCA. If Mrs C decides not to accept it, she remains free to take any 
further action she so wishes to about the case elsewhere, including in the courts. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman