DRN-2883407
The complaint
Ms C, on behalf of S, complains about the decision of Aviva Insurance Limited, in relation to 
Ss claim under the business interruption section of Ss commercial insurance policy for 
losses sustained following the COVID-19 pandemic.  
What happened
S is an estate agent business and held a Your Office Policy commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by Aviva. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for losses 
incurred as a result of business interruption. When their business had to close in line with the 
UK Governments measures to control the spread of COVID-19, S made a claim under this 
section of their policy.
Aviva declined the claim. It said there had not been any damage that had caused any loss. 
That the Action by an Authority term in Ss policy didnt provide cover for action taken as a 
result of disease. And that COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being covered by 
the Disease term in Ss policy wording.
S complained, saying that they had not received the policy wording Aviva was now relying 
on. And S also referred to a number of legal cases to argue that COVID-19 had caused 
damage. Aviva didnt change its stance, and Ss complaint was referred to this service.
Our investigator explained that it was the responsibility of the party selling the insurance to 
provide S with the relevant documents. In this case that was a third-party broker. So, if S 
were unhappy about the sale, including whether they had received the policy wording, they 
would need to speak to the broker about this. The investigator felt it was appropriate for 
Aviva to rely on this policy wording when considering the claim.
The investigator also felt that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decision 
on the claim. The investigator explained why he did not consider COVID-19 had caused any 
damage. And why the other terms of the policy didnt provide cover in the circumstances of 
Ss claim. 
Ms C remained unhappy. She did not consider it was appropriate for Aviva to rely on the 
policy wording if it hadnt been provided to S. As such, Ss complaint has been referred to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on S, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely 
the same reasons. So, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy wording
Ms Cs main argument following the investigators opinion on Ss complaint is that it is not 
appropriate for Aviva to rely on the policy wording. Shes said S was not provided with a 
copy of this wording until after the claim and that it would only be fair for Aviva to consider 
the claim based on the content of the policy schedule that had been provided at the point of 
sale. 
However, as the investigator has explained, the responsibility for providing a customer with 
the relevant documents at the point of sale rests with the party responsible for that sale. In 
this case that was a third-party broker. 
The contract of insurance itself consisted of a number of documents. As the policy wording 
states:
Your policy wording, the information You have provided and/or the application form, 
the statement of fact, the policy Schedule, or notice issued by Us at renewal and any 
endorsement together form the contract of insurance between Us and You, and must 
be read together.
I appreciate that S may not have received this wording at the point of sale. But, I would also 
add that insurance policy documents will generally include both a brief 
summary/confirmation of what areas of cover are specific to that contract, and a document 
setting out the full terms of the cover provided by those areas. I appreciate that S are not 
insurance experts. But I dont think it would be reasonable, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, for them to conclude that the full terms of their cover are provided by the policy 
schedule alone. 
If the appropriate information about the policy was not provided at the point of sale, S will 
have to take that up with their broker. But, as it formed part of the contract of insurance, 
ultimately I consider it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the contents of the policy wording 
when considering the claim. 
The outcome of the claim
S have now been provided with a copy of the policy wording. As such, I do not intend to set 
out the relevant terms in this decision. They are known to the parties. I have considered the 
entire policy, but I will only refer to certain parts of it in this decision. 
S have said that they were required close as a result of the Governments actions in 
response to the pandemic. As an estate agent, it doesnt seem S would have been 
specifically required to close by the regulations introduced in March 2020. But I appreciate 
there would likely have been a loss of custom as a result of the general measures 
introduced. 
However, neither these measures nor COVID-19 itself caused damage as is required by 
several areas of cover in Ss policy. The general business interruption cover, along with the 
Loss of Attraction and Prevention of Access terms, requires there to have been damage that 
resulted in the interruption to business that led to the claim. Damage is defined in Ss policy 
as: Physical loss, destruction or damage.
S has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to COVID-19, 
SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the cases S has 
referred to, as well as the rest of the legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I agree with 
the investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would require either a 
physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to either 
Ss property or property within a mile of Ss premises. And I also dont consider that any 
specialist cleaning of such property was required. So, I dont think there was relevant 
damage, and I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ss claim under the 
parts of the policy that required such damage.
Ss policy does include some cover in relation to diseases. However, COVID-19 isnt one of 
the specified diseases listed as being covered by the policy. So, Im not persuaded this 
section of the policy would have provided S with cover.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 isnt something Aviva are likely to 
have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Aviva intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases  either all infectious or contagious disease or all those that might be added to a 
government defined, regularly updated list. Aviva deliberately chose to define Specified 
Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases. 
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not 
cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list. So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can 
fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Avivas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
The last area of cover I will specifically refer to is the Action by an Authority term. As Ive 
said, it isnt clear that access to Ss premises was prevented or restricted, and the premises 
werent closed as a result of the actions of Government (or any other relevant authority). So, 
it is unlikely this term offers cover in the circumstances of Ss claim. Additionally, were S able 
to say the Governments actions had resulted in prevention/restriction of access, that would 
need to have been as a result of an emergency within a mile of Ss premises. The actions 
taken by the Government in March 2020 were as a result of the national situation though, 
rather than an emergency within a mile of Ss premises. So again, I dont think S would have 
a valid claim under this term. 
However, even if S could demonstrate that these issues did not mean that it was unable to 
successfully claim under this term, the policy wording says that the term does not cover: 
action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing the spread of any disease.
I think it is clear that the actions taken by the Government in March 2020 were taken to 
control, prevent or suppress the spread of COVID-19, which is a disease. As such, I think 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ss claim under this term as well. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Aviva should have met Ss claim. I know this decision will be disappointing for Ms C, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why Ss policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman