DRN-3014054
The complaint
Mr G complains about a decision made by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to reject a 
theft claim he made against a gadget insurance policy. IPA are the underwriters for the 
policy, so responsibility for rejecting the claim sits with them.
What happened
Mr Gs laptop was stolen a few days after his gadget insurance began. Hes told us hed left 
the laptop in the back seat of his car after getting home from work one evening. The next 
morning, he found his car had been broken into and the laptop was gone. 
IPA asked Mr G for more details about the theft. When Mr G said the laptop was on the back 
seat of his car, IPA decided to reject the claim. They said Mr G hadnt done enough to meet 
what the terms and conditions for the policy said needed to be done, in order for the laptop 
to be covered against theft. 
Mr G went back to IPA and explained the laptop had been covered by a coat and a bag in 
the bag seat  so it was out of view. IPA considered that as a complaint, but ultimately 
decided Mr G still hadnt met the terms of the policy. 
In his complaint, Mr G also wasnt happy IPA had been asking him for details of his car 
insurance and a home insurance policy. He says he doesnt have home insurance, and his 
car insurance didnt cover the theft of items from the car. 
Unresolved, the complaint was brought to us. Our investigator considered the terms of the 
policy and IPAs handling of the claim. He felt it was reasonable for IPA to reject the claim. 
And he noted that the request for other insurance details was reasonable, to check the 
laptop wasnt already covered under another policy. 
Mr G didnt feel that was the right outcome for his case. He noted the terms of the policy said 
his laptop had need to be in an enclosed compartment of his car. He said with the doors 
locked, the back seat of the car should meet that criteria. 
The complaint has now come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find IPAs decision to decline Mr Gs claim was made in a reasonable way. 
Ill explain my reasoning, although its similar to what our investigator has already covered. 
The starting point for considering IPAs decision is to look at the terms and conditions for the 
policy. These set out what they would cover under the policy  and also what they wouldnt. 
In this case, the key parts are the ones that refer to claims for gadgets being stolen. 
A key theme is that IPA wanted Mr G to take reasonable precautions to avoid having the 
laptop stolen. And when talking specifically about a theft from a vehicle, the terms were 
clear  the gadget is [only covered if its] out of view in either an enclosed compartment, 
boot or luggage space.
From this, I think its reasonable for IPA to expect Mr G to understand he needed to try to 
keep the laptop safe for it to be covered by the policy. Thats a fair condition for the policy to 
have. And I can see how IPA feel Mr G didnt do enough to meet that condition. 
I dont agree with Mr G that enclosed compartment means the passenger area of the car 
with the doors locked. The word compartment suggests a separate area of the car  most 
obviously a glovebox, or an armrest with a storage area. Similarly, enclosed suggests 
something that cant be seen into from outside the car. If the passenger area of the car was 
covered by the policy, then the terms could simply say the gadget must be in the car to be 
covered, rather than naming specific areas. The fact the terms are specific tells me they 
dont mean the whole passenger area of the car. 
As such, I think it was reasonable for IPA to say the laptop wasnt in an enclosed space, the 
boot, or a luggage area. It was in the passenger area of the car, which isnt covered under 
the policy. 
Also  from what Mr Gs said  it sounds like he got home, went into his home, and forgot to 
take the laptop with him. That suggests that he didnt specifically try to use the coat and bag 
to hide it  he simply left everything where hed last put it. Thats not really consistent with 
the policys general expectation that he would take reasonable precautions to keep the 
laptop safe. 
I find it was reasonable for IPA to consider these factors, and decide not to pay Mr Gs claim. 
Ive taken a look at the correspondence where IPA asked Mr G for details about his other 
insurance policies. I find IPA were justified in asking for these details. If either a car or home 
insurance policy had covered the theft of the laptop, Mr G could have claimed on those, 
instead of the gadget insurance IPA provided. The terms say in those circumstances, the 
gadget insurance wont pay the claim.
I can see how Mr G felt this was IPA looking for any way not to have to pay his claim. But 
another way to look at it is IPA seeking to confirm whether the claim should be paid. If their 
investigations had found all the terms of the policy were met, Id have expected them to have 
paid the claim. 
I appreciate Mr G is left without his laptop, or the money to buy a new one. But that reflects 
that a thief decided to break into his car when hed left the laptop on the back seat. IPA 
arent responsible for that. And I find their policy was clear enough that they wouldnt cover 
thefts in these sorts of circumstances. With those terms, I find its fair for IPA to decide to 
reject Mr Gs claim in this case. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Paul MellorOmbudsman