DRN-3742253
The complaint
Mr V complains that MBNA Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claim under 
sections 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a 
timeshares in April 2010. He also complains that MBNA failed to stop payments being made 
to an overseas lender.
What happened
In April 2010 Mr V acquired membership of a timeshare while he was in the United States of 
America. It cost some $19,400 the majority of which was funded by finance provided by the 
seller. This was in the form of an instalment plan and the instalment payments were set up to 
come from Mr Vs credit card account.
In 2016 he asked MBNA to stop the payments. It issued a Stop Payment Request to VISA. 
MBNA has explained to this service that VISA doesnt respond to such requests and MBNA 
only becomes aware if the request has been successful if the merchant stops taking the 
payments. The request did not succeed.
In July 2017 a claim under s.75 CCA was raised by a professional representative (PR) 
acting for Mr V. It said the product had been misrepresented and that there had been a 
breach of contract. With regard to the former it said that Mr V had been told:
he was acquiring the freehold title to the apartment,
he was advised he would receive an income from the apartment,
he was subjected to high pressure sales tactics.
It claimed that the state law required a Public Offering Statement which had not been 
provided. It also said that Mr V had been told the property had a value of $11,490 which was 
not true as it had no resale value. MBNA responded to say the claim had been made out of 
time.
The matter was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She sought further information regarding the stop of the 
instalment payments and concluded MBNA had not done anything wrong. On the matter of 
the s.75 claim she concluded it had been made out of time. As for the attempt to stop 
payments she noted that these were not covered by the Visa Europe Payment Stop Service 
as the merchant was in America. 
PR didnt agree and said MBNA hadnt take all reasonable steps to stop the payments and 
referenced an FCA publication without identifying it. PR said under the local state law if 
payments had ceased the merchant would have been foreclosed and the timeshare would 
revert to the ownership of the merchant. It said the bank should have stopped the payments 
to have allowed this to happen.
It also said the contract was unfair as it was weighted towards the seller. Our investigator 
asked if PR had any comments on the reasoning for the rejection, i.e. that the claim was not 
made in time. It responded to say that s.14 of the Limitation Act (LA) states that claimants 
have three years from the date they gained knowledge or reasonably could have been 
expected to have knowledge of the alleged breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr V) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor is equally and concurrently 
liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the creditor should 
they choose to. I would add that in this case Mr V paid a deposit using his credit card and 
that makes MBNA the creditor for that. However, I am not persuaded that MBNA is the 
creditor for the remaining instalment payments, but that does not stop him making a claim 
under s.75.
A claim for misrepresentation against the merchant would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr V made like claims against MBNA under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, MBNA may adopt any defence that 
would have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr V had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
to make his s 75 claim.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr V entered into the 
purchase and made payment with his credit card. I say this because the Letters of Claim and 
Complaint say that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged 
misrepresentations of the merchant. And as the finance from MBNA in 2010 was used to 
help pay for the purchase, it was when he made payment that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in April 2010  which means that, at 
the latest, he had six years from when he made payment by credit card to make his claim. 
But as he didnt do that until July 2017, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation period 
is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claim is likely to have been too late. And 
for that reason, I think MBNA had and has a defence to them under the LA.
I would add that even if the claim had been made in time I have seen nothing of substance 
that would lead me to conclude there had been either misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. The documentation signed by Mr V does not support the allegations made by PR.Grounds to Extend Time
Section 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in 
which] facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that 
this provision gives Mr V more time to make his claims. 
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, s. 75 of the CCA cant found a claim in tort 
against the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But 
on my reading of this complaint, Mr Vs allegations of misrepresentation dont set out in 
much detail the representations that are said to have been made by the merchant  let alone 
assert, with that detail in mind, that MBNA owed him a relevant duty of care when making 
such representations. So, to the extent that there was a s. 75 claim for misrepresentation, s. 
14A of the LA doesnt help Mr Vs cause.
Failure to stop payments
PR seems to have approached this complaint on the basis that Mr V had entered into a 
continuous payment authority rather than an instalment payment plan.  Continuous Payment 
Authorities are for ongoing services/provision of goods. Once you stop payments the 
merchant stops supplying the service or goods. Mr V had agreed to purchase a timeshare, 
paying an agreed price. Instalment payments were processed onto the account by the 
merchant as and when they were due, using the credit card number given to them when the 
contract was entered into.
Under VISA Europe rules there is a mechanism by which payments can be stopped, say if a 
service ceases to be provided by the merchant. However, these do not apply to transactions 
made in America and they do not cover instalment payments.  The VISA American rules do 
not offer the same stop payment regime and in any event if it did that service would not 
apply to Mr Vs instalment payments.
PR has referred to a FCA publication without identifying which one. I suspect it means the 
one issued on Continuous Payment Authorities, which as I have explained has no bearing 
on this complaint.
Despite there being no basis for obtaining a successful stop to the payments MBNA did try 
and effect one, but this was not accepted by the merchant. I cannot say that MBNA failed to 
seek to assist Mr V or that it did anything wrong in its handling of his request.
Conclusion
While I have every sympathy with Mr V I do not see there is any basis on which I could 
conclude that his complaint should succeed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman