DRN-2977008
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Everyday Lending provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 March 2020 Outstanding 48 £5,100 £305.58
When Mr S complained to Everyday Lending it said it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks which showed that the loan was affordable for him and didnt uphold 
his complaint. So Mr S brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and he set out 
the steps he said Everyday Lending should take to put things right. 
Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that the purpose of 
the loan was debt consolidation and that it would be used to pay any outstanding payday 
loans, a mail order account and other creditors leaving Mr S with just one hire purchase 
agreement with a monthly credit payment of £269 as his main creditor. So it didnt agree that 
the loan was unaffordable and it asked for the case to be sent to an ombudsman to review. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
Everyday Lending asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. Everyday Lending 
checked Mr Ss bank statements to verify his income and was satisfied that it could rely on 
him receiving an average monthly income of around £2,039. After doing its own background 
checks and allowing for the amount it calculated that Mr S would be spending on credit and 
his other regular monthly outgoings, Everyday Lending worked out that Mr S should still 
have disposable income of approximately £321 after taking out this loan. So, it felt the loan 
was affordable for him.
But, like the investigator, I dont think Everyday Lending made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because looking at its credit checks and the bank statements that Mr S 
provided to Everyday Lending, it could see that Mr S didnt in reality appear to have 
the amount of disposable income its checks suggested he did. And it couldve seen 
that Mr S had recently taken out five other expensive short term loans just in the 
month or so running up to him applying for this loan. 
I think it should have been clear from the information it had gathered that Mr S wasnt 
managing to repay his debt and he appeared to be relying on new credit more recently 
obtained in order to manage his finances. 
I think Everyday Lending ought to have realised that Mr Ss loan application reflected 
his reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mr S could repay 
further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. I dont 
think, based on what Everyday Lending had in front of it, I can fairly say that Everyday Lending saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mr S was going to be able to make 
the loan repayments in a sustainable way  particularly bearing in mind that the loan 
amount was insufficient for Mr S to be able to make any meaningful impact on his 
overall outstanding credit debt within a reasonably foreseeable period of time, even 
after some debt consolidation. 
Ive thought carefully about what Everyday Lending said in response to our investigators 
view. I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out to repay other 
expensive credit means it was fairly provided. The total amount payable under this loan 
agreement was £14,667.84 if it ran to term. Even if Mr S had used this loan to repay some 
existing debt, I dont think Everyday Lending was able to safely say this wouldve benefitted 
his overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation. And given his recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mr S might use 
this loan to help him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this 
loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
Also, it seems to me that, even on the figures that Everyday Lending appears to have relied 
on, having to pay £269 for an ongoing hire purchase agreement plus the monthly 
repayments for this loan meant that Mr S would potentially be spending around 28% of his 
average take home pay on servicing this debt alone. Hed signed up to make the 
repayments on this loan for the next four years and the hire purchase agreement was due to 
run for all of this time. I think that this would have been such a significant proportion of his 
income committed to repaying debt that Everyday Lending ought to have realised that it 
would be unlikely that Mr S would be able to make the loan repayment in a sustainable way 
over the whole loan term. 
And bearing in mind that the loan Everyday Lending provided wasnt enough to pay all the 
credit debt that Mr S had told Everyday Lending he planned to use the loan for, it seems 
clear that Mr Ss ongoing credit spending each month would be more than Everyday Lending 
had calculated  and most likely unaffordable looking at the evidence of his bank 
statements. 
I think what I've said is borne out by the payment problems Mr S has run into, despite what 
Everyday Lending said about him volunteering to overpay early on. The fact Mr S made 
overpayments at the start doesnt mean that the loan it provided was ultimately sustainable 
for Mr S.  
For all these reasons, I dont think Everyday Lending could reasonably have satisfied itself 
that providing this loan to Mr S wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall 
debts and tying him into a high cost credit deal for the next four years that wasnt sustainably 
affordable for him. 
So I dont think Everyday Lending shouldve provided this loan. 
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below. But as Mr S has been further 
indebted with a high amount of interest and possibly charges on a loan that he shouldnt 
have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Everyday 
Lending did wrong. So, I think Everyday Lending needs to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S is happy with my provisional decision. 
Everyday Lending disagreed with what I said and the provisional decision I reached. In 
particular, it said:
disposable income is calculated using income minus creditor repayments and living 
expenses and Mr S did have disposable income of approximately £321 after taking 
out this loan
he wasnt reliant on new credit to manage his debt repayments - he enjoyed a 
lifestyle that his income and living arrangements allowed him and the payday loans 
that he took out also reflected this 
he expressed a very serious interest in sorting out his finances to be able to get back 
to high street lending. The successful repayment of our loan would have helped him 
towards this
the main credit repayment he was left with after our loan had consolidated the debt 
he requested to consolidate would have been his car finance which we couldnt have 
consolidated as our maximum loan value is £15,000 and we wouldnt have 
consolidated as it wouldnt have made sense for us to
whilst his debt repayment to income ratio was higher than average his personal 
circumstances were below average with no expenditure on housing or utilities so we 
do not believe this ratio being higher than average in a non-average case would be 
reason not to grant lending
repayment history of the loan supports that it was more than sustainable over the 
term of the loan with Mr S making monthly overpayments of around 30% which also 
supports the disposable income we calculated was realistic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Everyday Lending for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Everyday Lending that I've thought carefully about everything 
again before coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what 
seem to me to be the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and 
taken into account everything they have asked me to reconsider.  
Everyday Lending hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking 
about my provisional decision. And I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points 
which have a bearing on the outcome. I would just add that the fact Everyday Lending has 
acknowledged that Mr Ss debt repayment to income ratio was higher than average despite 
his limited responsibility for all the usual living costs seems to me to be a further reason not 
to lend to him.I appreciate that Everyday Lending takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra on a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If Everyday Lending has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so 
and then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Lending should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Lending should attempt to 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr S, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding this loan 
when it is paid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman