DRN-4497210
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with the medical assistance provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) on her travel insurance policy (the policy).
All references to IPA include its medical emergency team. And although Mrs V is being 
represented in this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout my decision as shes the 
policyholder.
What happened
Whilst on holiday, in a European country, Mrs V was admitted to hospital and was diagnosed 
with having had a stroke. She missed her return flight to the UK and once she was deemed 
fit to fly, IPA arranged for her to be repatriated to the UK, by stretcher, on an indirect flight - 
which included one stopover. 
Mrs V is unhappy with the medical assistance received by IPA including delays arranging 
her repatriation home, the standard care in the public hospital shed been admitted to whilst 
abroad and that she wasnt repatriated by air ambulance. 
IPA issued two final response letters, accepting some service errors. It offered Mrs V £300 
compensation in total for poor customer service. However, it maintained that repatriation by 
stretcher on a commercial flight was medically supported and appropriate. 
Unhappy, Mrs V complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld 
her complaint. She recommended IPA pay Mrs V £3,500 for distress and inconvenience 
(inclusive of the offer of £300 compensation already made to her by IPA). IPA disagreed. So, 
Mrs Vs complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance claims fairly 
and promptly. 
For the following reasons, I uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Repatriation
Section B of the policy terms and conditions (entitled Emergency medical and other 
expenses) says the following is covered:
With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, the additional costs 
incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified 
attendants, to repatriate you to your home if it is medically necessary. These expenses 
will be for the identical class of travel utilised on the outward journey unless the 
Emergency Assistance Service agree otherwise.
Medically necessary means reasonable and essential medical services and supplies, 
ordered by a medical practitioner exercising prudent clinical judgement, needed to diagnose 
or treat an illness, bodily injury, medical condition, or its symptoms, and that meet generally 
accepted standards of medical practice.
So, although the decision how and when to repatriate is ultimately a decision taken by IPA, 
Im satisfied that decision must be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. For the 
following reasons, I dont think the repatriation plan decided on by IPA was fair and 
reasonable. 
The medical report of the treating hospital dated 5 May 2023 (which Ill refer to as the 
fit to fly report) states that Mrs V wasnt able to walk without assistance and cant be 
in a sitting position for long periods of time. It concludes that Mrs V is clinically stable 
and fit to fly with medical assistance on an air ambulance if possible.
Im satisfied from reading IPAs contact notes that leading up to the fit to fly report 
being sent, it had been internally reviewing possible repatriation plans subject to 
receiving confirmation from the treating hospital that Mrs V was fit to fly. 
On 4 May 2023, so a day before receiving the fit to fly report, its reflected that quotes 
had been obtained regarding the cost of repatriating on a commercial flight by 
stretcher and by air ambulance. There were different options for the air ambulance, 
all of which were significantly more than the cost of the commercial flight home with 
stretcher. Its reflected that: likely go with AA, which Im satisfied is reference to air 
ambulance. 
After receiving the fit to fly report, IPA decided to proceed with a repatriation plan by 
stretcher, on a commercial flight with medical escort. Ive seen nothing from IPAs 
medical team from the time to explain why repatriation by air ambulance was 
disregarded in favour of this option. 
The contact notes support that there was availability to repatriate Mrs V by air 
ambulance around that time. Im satisfied that the available evidence suggests flight 
time by air ambulance wouldve been a few hours. Instead, IPA opted to proceed with 
an alternative repatriation plan which involved a total travel time of over 13 hours, 
including road travel to an airport a significant distance from where she was staying 
(around 170 miles), two (indirect) flights, one stop over and having to wait for the 
availability of medical escorts to travel to be with Mrs V to accompany her back on a 
commercial flight. Further, Mrs V had to wait several days to be booked onto the 
commercial flights. 
The contact notes reflect that Mrs Vs son was asking for Mrs V to be transferred 
from the public hospital she was in due to the standard of care she was receiving. I 
can understand why IPA was focusing on repatriation rather than transfer but it 
doesnt look like that consideration was taken into account when considering the 
repatriation plan and acting in the best interests of Mrs V in this particular case. The 
medical evidence supports that shed had a stroke, had difficulty mobilising and 
understandably, wanted to return to the UK, and be admitted to a hospital there to 
continue with rehabilitation. 
I accept that the treating hospital didnt say repatriation by air ambulance was 
compulsory. However, Ive seen nothing from IPAs medical team from the time to 
explain why repatriation by air ambulance wasnt medically necessary  or why it had 
changed its position from 4 May 2023 that air ambulance was likely. I dont think IPAs decision to proceed with an alternative repatriation plan was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular case or medically supported from 
the time. 
In response to our investigators view, IPAs medical team has provided additional 
comments to support the decision taken. Ive taken into account whats been said 
but, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, Im not convinced by the points made. Ive 
also placed more weight on the medical opinion from the time as I think thats more 
relevant. That includes IPA not being able to provide me with detailed medical 
analysis from its medical team from the time to support the repatriation plan it ended 
up pursuing. 
IPAs medical team has more recently said that Mrs V no longer required medical 
treatment, making repatriation for rehabilitation feasible. And from both a medical and 
clinical perspective, Mrs V was stable, eliminating the need for an advanced or highly 
equipped medical team during transportation. However, I dont think this reasonably 
explains why repatriation by air ambulance was disregarded at the time, in favour of 
the alternative repatriation plan which involved a total travel time of over 13 hours, 
two (indirect) flights, one stop over and, ultimately, a delay of several days to 
repatriate her back to the UK.
It also said that due to Mrs Vs mobility limitation resulting from the stroke, 
repatriation on a stretcher was considered the most direct and expedient option. 
Further, air ambulance offered no medical advantages for Mrs Vs condition and 
repatriation. For reasons set out above, Im not persuaded thats right. 
Other delays and service issues
It looks like it did take a number of days for IPA to obtain the initial medical report it needed 
from the treating hospital and medical records from her GP. Im satisfied that it was 
proactively chasing these, so I think these delays were largely outside of IPAs control. 
Although, Im satisfied that there were times when IPA may have more promptly considered 
the information they received, ultimately, I dont think this had any impact on Mrs V. Thats 
because the fit to fly report wasnt provided until 5 May 2023. By that time, Im satisfied that 
cover had been verified (around 28 April 2023) so any delays with considering the medical 
information up until that point didnt delay the repatriation process. 
When agreeing to provide assistance to repatriate Mrs V back to the UK, I dont think IPA 
acted unreasonably by saying it needed to ensure that she was fit to fly before making 
arrangements to do so. Im satisfied thats standard industry practice. And until it was 
medically confirmed that she was fit to fly, it wouldnt know or be able to assess  for 
example - whether it was safe for Mrs V to fly home, any risks involved or if she needed any 
specific assistance. From IPAs contact notes, Im satisfied that it was proactively chasing 
the treating hospital for the fit to fly report and the delay in providing the report was outside 
of its control.
In its final response letter dated June 2023, IPA accept that:
having reviewed the communications which took place with Mrs Vs family before 
repatriation, it didnt provide adequate updates. It accepts that it couldve been more 
forthcoming with the information provided to prevent any level of uncertainty. And 
that wouldve avoided Mrs Vs family having to contact IPA for updates.
on arrival at the airport in the UK, there was no airside ambulance booked to assist 
Mrs V off the plane. And that this was its error by not passing on the appropriate 
instructions to the appropriate third parties to ensure support was provided. It also accepts that this caused a significant delay in (Mrs V says over three hours  which 
Ive got no reason to doubt) departing the plane.
it emailed Mrs V on 30 May 2023 to see if repatriation went well. This was after Mrs V 
complained on 16 May 2023 setting out concerns with the repatriation process. IPA 
accepts this was a further example of poor communication. 
Im also satisfied that there were other issues which occurred on the repatriation back to the 
UK which  although IPA says was outside of its control  either wouldnt or are most 
unlikely to have occurred if Mrs V had been repatriated by air ambulance (which I think 
reasonably shouldve happened in the circumstances of this case). 
That includes:
Mrs V not being able to attend the medical facility during the stopover as part of the 
indirect flight home because it was closed for refurbishment.
being uncomfortable on the indirect flight home and not adjusting her seatbelt. 
The impact on Mrs V
Im satisfied that IPAs errors in this case had an extreme short-term impact on Mrs V. I 
accept that her repatriation was much longer and more uncomfortable than it reasonably 
ought to have been in the circumstances of this case. Im satisfied that she was put to 
unnecessary and severe distress, upset and inconvenience at an already worrying time for 
her, when she was already vulnerable. Im also satisfied that having to wait hours longer on 
a plane for an ambulance, when she was already unwell and having endured a long and 
difficult repatriation back to the UK, left her in an undignified, worrying and distressful 
situation.
Im satisfied that £300 doesnt fairly reflect the impact on Mrs V. Im satisfied that 
compensation in the sum of £3,500 is reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced because of IPAs errors in this case. 
Its important to clarify that the family members who had contact with IPA arent named 
beneficiaries under the policy and so they arent eligible complainants in respect of the 
complaint Ive been asked to decide. They hadnt entered into a contract of insurance with 
IPA. So, I dont have any power to direct IPA to pay them any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience theyve personally experienced because of what IPA reasonably ought to 
have done better here. However, Im satisfied that the communication failings IPA accepts 
occurred in this case, wouldve also impacted Mrs V as she wouldve been waiting for 
updates. Im satisfied, a lack of communication about what was going on wouldve upset her 
at an already difficult time. And Ive factored that into the compensation amount Im directing 
IPA to pay. 
Putting things right
I direct IPA to pay Mrs V £3,500 (three thousand, five hundred pounds) compensation for 
distress and inconvenience (inclusive of the total sum of £300 its already offered in its two 
final response letters). 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Vs complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman