DRN-4452668
The complaint
Mrs P complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) has failed to properly compensate her 
for inappropriate advice it gave her in 1993. Zurich has agreed that the advice was 
inappropriate and has proposed redress to her. It has, however, limited that redress up until 
2010. Mrs P feels that she should be compensated to the present day. 
Mrs P is represented in bringing this case by a claims management company. For purposes 
of simplicity, I shall refer to all correspondence as if it were sent and received by Mrs P.
What happened
I issued my Provisional decision in November 2023, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
Mrs P joined her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) in 1989. In February 
1993, she met with a financial adviser employed by Zurich to discuss her financial 
circumstances and objectives. As a result of their discussions, Mrs P set up a Free-Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy in April 1993.
During the fact find conducted by the adviser, Mrs P stated that Zurich did not draw her 
attention to the option for her to make an additional voluntary contribution (AVC) plan linked 
to her OPS instead of the FSAVC. She was consequently unaware of the difference in 
charges between the two options. 
In 2010, Mrs Ps employer changed the basis of the OPS it offered, from a defined benefit 
(final salary) to a defined contribution (money purchase) scheme. Mrs P was enrolled in the 
new OPS and also started a new additional voluntary contributions policy linked to her OPS. 
She also continued to make contributions to the Zurich FSAVC in addition to this new AVC.
Mrs P complained to Zurich on 27 April 2022 that the advice she had been given in 1993 to 
take out the FSAVC was inappropriate. She felt that because Zurich had not compared the 
features of the FSAVC to those of the AVC associated with her OPS and simply 
recommended the FSAVC in isolation, she was unaware in 1993 that her option to take out 
an AVC through her employer (in-house) would likely have been more financially beneficial 
to her.
Zurich investigated Mrs Ps complaint and responded on 10 October 2022. It accepted that it 
should have made Mrs P aware of the in-house AVC that was available to her at the time the 
FSAVC was sold to her. It also accepted that the AVC associated with her OPS would likely 
have been financially beneficial to Mrs P and that she would have been caused a financial 
loss by investing in the Zurich FSAVC instead. Given this, Zurich accepted that it should 
compensate Mrs P for the loss she had suffered on a charges basis because there was no 
evidence that Mrs P could have purchased added years.
Mrs P considered that Zurichs liability for her loss should apply for the entire duration of her 
FSAVC policy, up to the present date. Zurich, however, took a different view. In its response 
to Mrs Ps complaint, it said it only considered itself to be liable for the period between when 
the policy was originally taken out until 2010, when Mrs P began to make additional 
voluntary contributions associated with her OPS. Its rationale was that since Mrs P had 
become aware of the alternative to her Zurich FSAVC when she began making additional 
payments to her OPS, she had made a conscious choice to continue with both plans rather 
than dropping the FSAVC in favour of additional contributions to her in-house arrangement. 
It also considered that if she was not sure of the difference between the FSAVC and her new 
AVC she could have taken independent financial advice at that point, which she did not. 
Consequently, it felt that it should not be liable for any financial loss which occurred since 
2010.
Mrs P disagreed with Zurichs decision and asked it to reconsider. She felt that for that to be 
an appropriate decision she would have needed to be aware of the difference in charges 
between both the FSAVC and the new AVC, which she was not. She also felt that it was not 
common practice for someone taking advantage of an employers OPS and associated 
AVCs to undertake a full pension review with an independent Financial Adviser (IFA).
Zurich disagreed and wrote to Mrs P on 5 December 2022 to repeat its view that it should 
only be liable for Mrs Ps losses up to 30 June 2010.
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mrs P asked our service to investigate her complaint. Our 
investigator considered the evidence in this case, before recommending that Zurich should 
increase its calculation of Mrs Ps losses past 2010 and up to the present date.
Zurich disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Both Mrs P and Zurich responded to my provisional decision. Neither party provided any 
further significant evidence, so I will now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I stated:
Having reviewed all the evidence in this case, and considering the view of our investigator, I 
have reached the same conclusion and intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I have, however, 
reached a different conclusion in terms of what I think is fair and reasonable in terms of 
putting things right, so I think it is fair to explain that to both Mrs P and Zurich and give them 
the chance to respond before I make my final decision.
Firstly, I think its important to note that the underlying merits of this complaint are not in 
dispute. Zurich accepts that it is responsible for providing unsuitable advice to Mrs P in 1993 
which may have caused her a financial loss over a number of years. Both Mrs P and Zurich 
have also agreed the basis upon which the calculation of her loss should be made. This will 
be on the basis of the higher charges she has incurred. The point to be resolved is when 
Zurichs liability for compensation should have ended.
Zurich believes that Mrs P should have realised in 2010 that an alternative to the FSAVC it 
had sold her existed, and that by continuing to make payments into it after that time she was 
consciously accepting the relatively higher level of charges it incurred. This means it should 
not have to compensate her for the period since 2010. Mrs P does not accept this, and feels 
that she should be compensated up until the present day. Consequently, what I need to decide here is whether Mrs P should reasonably have had 
enough information in 2010 to be able to make a comparison of the difference in features 
between the FSAVC that Zurich had sold her in 1993 and the AVC associated with her OPS. 
In particular, whether she should reasonably be considered to have had enough information 
to be aware that the charges she was paying on the FSAVC were higher than those on her 
new AVC and that she consciously decided to continue making payments to the FSAVC 
despite knowing this.
To decide this, I have looked at the policy documents Zurich provided to Mrs P, when she 
took out the FSAVC, together with the information she was given about her OPS AVC and 
the information provided to her in her annual benefit statements.
In terms of the information on charges provided to Mrs P by Zurich in the terms and 
conditions of her FSAVC when she took it out, these were defined clearly in the documents 
and comprised several elements including annual charges, bid/offer spread on investments, 
admin charges, indexed policy charges and expense deductions. The first two of these were 
expressed as percentages and the remainder in absolute terms at a specified date, although 
these were to be:
adjusted from time to time
and as such be subject to change since the Terms and conditions were first issued to Mrs P.
Recent annual statements from both Zurich and Mrs Ps OPS clearly state the amounts paid 
in charges during the periods of time they cover. Zurich has, however, confirmed that prior to 
2021, and in line with FCA guidance that applied at that time, the annual benefits statements 
it sent to Mrs P did not include details of the charges she had incurred. Given this, I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to conclude that Mrs P had enough information to compare the 
costs and charges of the FSAVC and OPS AVC. She could, of course, have contacted 
Zurich to ask for details of the charges being made on her policy, but I cant see why she 
would have reasonably felt she needed to, if she had no concerns about the advice she had 
previously been given to invest in the FSAVC some 17 years earlier.
Zurichs position is that once Mrs P had taken out her OPS AVC she should have realised 
that her FSAVC was relatively expensive, and that continuing with it was a conscious 
decision to accept these higher charges. 
Ive also looked back at the original fact find that was conducted when Mrs P was advised by 
Zurich to take out the FSAVC in 1993. Following her interview, she had to rate the 
importance of a number of statements she was given relating to her financial objectives. In 
this fact find, she only rated two of the sixteen statements as very important. These were:
Retiring early
Providing or increasing retirement income
Given this, I think its reasonable to conclude that any conscious decision to continue with 
her FSAVC once she had taken out her OPS AVC was made from the perspective of 
wanting to increase her retirement savings, particularly as her OPS had changed from a DB 
to a DC basis around the same time.
Zurich also suggested that another way in which Mrs P may have become aware of the 
differences in the two policies would be if she had taken advice from an IFA in 2010. Doing 
this would undoubtedly have made Mrs P aware that the charges in the FSAVC were higher than those relating to the AVC, and what impact this difference would make over time to the 
value of her pension.
Mrs P, however, did not take advice from an IFA in 2010, and I find it reasonable to conclude 
that this would not have been an obvious course of action for her to undertake at that time. 
Although consulting an IFA at certain points in a persons life, such as when planning for 
retirement, could be considered good practice, I dont find that not taking such advice could 
be considered an unreasonable course of action.
In summary, from the information Ive been provided with, I dont think theres enough 
evidence to say Mrs P made a conscious decision to accept any financial loss involved in 
continuing with the FSAVC from 2010 onwards. Consequently, on balance, I dont think its 
fair that Zurich have capped their liability on this basis.
Having said this, I do find that Zurichs liability should be capped, and that this liability should 
end on 10 October 2022, when Zurich responded to Mrs Ps complaint. This is because I find 
that although Mrs P clearly believed the advice that led to her investment in the FSAVC to be 
inappropriate by the date of her complaint, there would not have been clarity that the advice 
she had been given was inappropriate or that the FSAVC was indeed relatively expensive 
compared to the OPS AVC. From the point that Zurich upheld her complaint, she should 
have known at this point that a more appropriate course of action than continuing to hold the 
FSAVC existed, and she should have acted to mitigate her losses at this point.
Putting things right
For the reasons given, Im satisfied that the complaint should be upheld.
My aim is to put Mrs P back in the position she would have been in, had she begun making 
payments to the AVC offered alongside her OPS, rather than the Zurich FSAVC. 
Zurich should recalculate Mrs Ps financial loss arising from the inappropriate advice she 
was given in 1993, to cover the period from the start of the policy in 1993 to 10 October 
2022.
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should normally be paid 
into Mrs Ps pension plan. In this case, however, Zurich has already indicated that this is not 
possible. Given this, any compensation amount should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. If Mrs P has reason 
to believe that her income tax rate is likely to be different to this, she should inform Zurich of 
this as soon as practicable.
Interest should be added to any compensation due at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
this decision until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold the complaint.
My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount calculated and carry 
out the actions as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman