DRN-3673262
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF), didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their claim under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
Mrs and Mr S bought a timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier in September 
2010. The total cost of the membership was £7,500 which was paid for by a buy now, pay 
later agreement with BPF. 
In August 2018, Mrs and Mr S (using a professional representative) made a claim against 
BPF for problems they said they had with the timeshare, claiming a refund of all monies 
paid. Mrs and Mr S said the nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and 
that the supplier had breached its contract with them. So, they were able to make a claim 
against BPF under s.75 of the CCA. Mrs and Mr S also raised a claim under s.140A of the 
CCA, stating that the actions of the supplier led to an unfair lending relationship, including 
not carrying out checks to ensure the lending was affordable for them and that BPF owed 
Mrs and Mr S a fiduciary duty which it breached in not disclosing the commission linked to 
this purchase. 
BPF did not respond to the claim within eight weeks of receiving it. But after the complaint 
was referred to our service, it said Mrs and Mr Ss claim had been brought too late under the 
provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also argued that it did not owe 
Mrs and Mr S a fiduciary duty and it did not consider it would be fair or reasonable for this 
service to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint under the provisions of s.140A. 
One of our investigators considered the s.75 misrepresentation claim and the s.140A claim 
and concluded they had been brought too late under the LA. The investigator did not uphold 
Mrs and Mr Ss breach of contract claim as she did not think she had been given any 
evidence to show that the supplier had breached the terms and conditions of its agreement 
with Mrs and Mr S. 
Mrs and Mr Ss representative responded to the view disagreeing that there was no 
evidence of the suppliers breach of contract. It provided evidence that one of the businesses 
in the timeshare suppliers corporate structure was placed in administration and suggested 
this showed it could no longer provide holidays. It was argued that this was a breach of 
contract. Mrs and Mr Ss representative did not provide any comments on the rest of the 
investigators conclusions around the LA on either the misrepresentation claim or the s.140A 
claim. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 setting out that I did not intend to uphold 
Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. I thought BPF had acted fairly in seeking to rely on the LA when it 
concluded that Mrs and Mr S had brought their complaint too late. I didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint for unaffordable lending or for breach of contract. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any comments or evidence 
they wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision. 
BPF responded to confirm it had nothing further to add. Mrs and Mr Ss representative did 
not respond to my provisional decision. As the timeframe to respond has now passed, it is 
appropriate for me to issue my final decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice when I make my decision. 
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised. 
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 of the CCA
Mrs and Mr S say the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to 
them when they bought it and that they have a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier. Under s.75 of the CCA, BPF could be jointly liable for the alleged 
misrepresentations made by the timeshare supplier. But BPF argues that any claim brought 
by Mrs and Mr S for any alleged misrepresentations has been made too late. In my 
provisional decision I explained that I agreed with what BPF had said. And having reviewed 
the complaint again, and considered all the available evidence, I see no reason to deviate 
from this conclusion. For the avoidance of doubt, I have not decided whether the limitation 
period has expired as that would be a matter for the courts. Rather, I have considered 
whether BPF acted fairly in turning down the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). Such a claim is an action founded on tort for the 
purposes of the LA. The limitation period for actions founded on tort expires six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA). 
Mrs and Mr S have brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 clam expires six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought the cause of action accrued in 2010 when 
Mrs and Mr S entered into the agreement to buy their timeshare. And as they did not claim 
until some eight years later, I thought BPF had acted fairly in seeking to rely on the time limit 
set out in the LA to decline their claim. Having reviewed all the evidence for this complaint 
again, I have reached the same conclusion.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mrs and Mr S entered into 
the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement 
based, they say, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and suffered a loss. 
They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have bought the 
timeshare or taken out the finance agreement with BPF.
It follows therefore, that the cause of action accrued in September 2010 so Mrs and Mr S 
had six years from that date to bring their claim. But they did not make a claim against BPF 
until August 2018, which was outside the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.  
The claim under s.140A of the CCA
Under this section, a court may make an order under s.140B of the CCA in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has a power to make such a determination, but 
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account. 
I set out in my provisional decision that the LA applies to claims under s.140A too. I 
explained that it was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering 
s.140A of the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit 
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. As with an action 
under s.75 of the CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because the claim 
Mrs and Mr S wish to make is for repayment of sums they have paid to the loan, which is an 
action for sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 of the LA applies. 
That means Mrs and Mr S had to have brought an action within six years of 8 July 2011 
(when the agreement ended). As they didnt do that, I think they brought their claim too late. 
Could limitation be extended?
I explained in my provisional decision that the LA provides for extensions to the time limits in 
certain circumstances. But having considered Mrs and Mr Ss case, I did not think any 
applied to their claims. Having reviewed the complaint again, and in the absence of any new 
comments or evidence from the parties, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion on 
this point. So, it follows that I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any provisions of the LA. 
The breach of contract claim
In their initial letter to BPF in 2018, Mrs and Mr S raised a breach of contract claim. 
However, the letter did not set out how or why they thought the supplier had breached their 
contract. Instead, much of their claim focused on the allegations of misrepresentation and an 
unfair lending relationship. As a result, I concluded in my provisional decision that there was 
insufficient evidence to show that the supplier had breached its contract with Mrs and Mr S. 
So, I thought BPF had acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
In reviewing the complaint again, I maintain my opinion on this point. While I am aware 
Mrs and Mr Ss representative has sent in evidence that part of the timeshare supplier has 
gone into administration, the point at which this happened was several years after the claim 
was submitted to BPF to consider. So, I do not agree that it can form part of this complaint or 
that BPF should have upheld the claim it reviewed in 2018 for breach of contract. 
Instead, this is a separate breach of contract claim that Mrs and Mr Ss representative 
referred to BPF in March 2021, so it falls outside of the scope of my decision on this 
complaint. 
Unaffordable lending
Mrs and Mr Ss representative raised concerns with the lack of affordability checks carried 
out by BPF. It framed this as part of its s.140A claim which I have already concluded was 
brought too late. However, the complaint that the lending was unaffordable can also be 
considered as a stand-alone complaint. In my provisional decision I explained that Mrs and Mr S had not provided much by way of 
evidence about why they considered BPFs lending decision to be unaffordable. I set out 
that, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should have done when it agreed to lend to 
them, I would still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs and Mr S 
and that they lost out as a result in order to uphold this part of their complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S did not respond to my provisional decision to provide any new commentary or 
evidence on this point. And as I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the lending was 
unaffordable for them, I am not upholding this part of their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman