DRN-2134858
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement calculated by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services 
Limited (LV) under his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr M holds an income protection policy, the aim of which is to provide him with a weekly 
income of £300 if he cant work because of injury or illness. 
After Mr M stopped work in 2018 because of illness, he made a claim under the policy. This 
was accepted by LV and payment of £300 per week began from the end of the 13-week 
deferred period. 
Mr M then did some work on a part-time basis in the 2019/20 tax year. He told LV of this, 
and it advised him that it would reduce his benefit payments to take this into account. Mr M 
was unhappy with LVs calculation of his pre-incapacity income. He therefore brought a 
complaint 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought LV had calculated 
the benefit in line with the policy terms. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pre-incapacity income
Mr M was insured for £300 benefit per week. This is described in the policy as full amount of 
income protection benefit, but for ease, Ill refer to it as the sum assured. In other words, 
this is the amount of benefit his premiums paid for, and so he could never claim more than 
this.
The policy explains that when a claim is payable, LV will pay the lower of the sum assured, 
or the maximum weekly benefit. 
The maximum weekly benefit means the benefit payable is limited to a proportion of the 
insureds income before incapacity (and takes into account any continuing income). The 
reason for this clause is so that an insured wont be financially better off by remaining off 
work, and therefore theres an incentive to return to work. 
When working out an insureds income before incapacity, the policy says this would be the 
income from the insureds occupation in the 12 months before the start of the incapacity. 
Though it also says that, at its discretion, it can base the benefit on the insureds average 
income over a longer or shorter period, if this is higher. 
As Mr M was self-employed, LV calculated his average income based on his earnings in the 
two tax years before incapacity. I think that was fair.
LV worked out that Mr Ms average earnings before incapacity were £30,000. This figure 
was based on his tax returns which showed the amount of dividends he paid himself from his 
company. 
The policy specifically defines income as:
Your taxable earned income. This is the gross income you earn less any expenses which 
are allowable against income tax.
Im satisfied it was appropriate for LV to use the amount Mr M paid himself from his company 
to work out his pre-incapacity annual income, and that this was in line with the policy terms.
Based on the maximum weekly benefit clause in the policy, Mr Ms weekly pre-incapacity 
earnings were £288.47 (50% of his annual income before incapacity, divided by 52). LV 
could have chosen to pay him this amount of benefit, but as it was within 10% of his sum 
assured, it decided to pay him the sum assured of £300 per week. 
Mr M thinks LV ought to have worked out his pre-incapacity income based on the amount of 
income he generated for his company in the two tax years before his incapacity. Although he 
accepts that he kept funds in the company at the time rather than paying it all to himself as 
income, hes since closed the company and drawn down those funds. 
I disagree with Mr M on this point. While I appreciate he has since drawn down the money in 
the company account, that was only because he closed his company  this didnt reflect the 
normal salary that hed usually pay himself in a tax year. That being the case, I think LV was 
right to use the salary that Mr M paid himself to work out his taxable earned income, rather 
than the income he brought in for his company.
Rehabilitation benefit
After Mr M closed his company, he went back to work for a few months during the 2019/20 
tax year. He advised LV of this, which was appropriate. Although Mr M hasnt yet submitted 
his tax return, hes estimated his taxable earned income for LV for that period. 
The policy explains that if an insured goes back to their normal occupation on a part-time 
basis (less than 30 hours a week), LV will pay rehabilitation benefit. The policy sets out the 
calculation that LV uses for this. 
Based on Mr Ms pre-incapacity earnings and his estimated taxable earned income for the 
relevant period, LV thought his benefit payments needed to be reduced to £155.25 per 
week. 
Ive checked LVs estimated calculation and Im satisfied it was correct. Once Mr M provides 
LV with the tax return, itll be able to finalise its calculations in respect of his rehabilitation 
benefit. 
As LV had overpaid Mr M benefit, it asked that he repay the overpayment, or it offered to 
arrange a repayment plan. I think that was reasonable. As Mr M has closed his company and the company bank account, his earnings in 2019/20 
went into his personal bank account. That means Mr M wouldnt have the option of keeping 
funds towards his company and taking dividends, and so instead, the full net profit would be 
considered his taxable earned income. 
Mr M wants to know what would happen if he reopened his company and chose not to pay 
himself any dividends. It seems to me that it wouldnt be appropriate for an insured to go 
back to work part-time and still claim their full benefit under the policy. If that happened, LV 
may consider using an alternative way to estimate an appropriate amount of rehabilitation 
benefit. Though as this hasnt happened, I dont think itd be helpful to speculate on what that 
might look like. 
Complaint
LV offered Mr M £150 compensation for failings made during the complaints process. 
Complaints about complaint handling arent something that falls within the remit of this 
service. Therefore, Mr M should contact LV directly if he hasnt yet accepted this offer of 
compensation and wishes to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman