DRN-4433948
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) irresponsibly gave her a fixed sum loan she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF for the purchase 
and fitting of new windows and doors for her home. The agreement was brokered by the 
supplier and fitter of the windows and doors which has since gone into administration. The 
cash price of the goods and services was £9,900. Mrs G was required to pay 120 monthly 
repayments of £115.36.
In 2021, Mrs G complained to BPF to say that enough wasnt done to establish whether the 
agreement was affordable and sustainable for her. She also raised concerns about the 
quality of the work that had been carried out on her home. The complaint about the quality of 
the work is being dealt with under a separate complaint and doesnt form part of this 
decision.
BPF didnt agree it had acted unfairly when approving the loan for Mrs G. The complaint was 
referred to our service. I sent Mrs G and BPF my provisional decision on 13 October 2023. 
I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Our approach to considering complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
is set out on our website and Ive had this approach in mind when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in this complaint.
Before lending BPF needed to complete proportionate affordability checks. There 
isnt a set list of checks it had to complete, meaning what is proportionate will vary 
with each lending decision. To decide how thorough checks ought to be BPF needed 
to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the amount borrowed, 
the total repayable, the cost of the credit, the size of the regular repayments, the term 
and the borrowers circumstances.
As part of the application BPF had been told Mrs G earned an annual income of 
£19,000. Its not clear whether this figure was supplied by Mrs G or by the broker 
when completing the application. It seems clear this wasnt her income, however, its 
possible this represented her household income at the time.
BPF also completed a credit check which showed that as well as being jointly 
responsible for a mortgage with monthly repayments of just under £200, she held a 
number of store cards. All of the store card accounts held a zero balance except one 
which was only a few hundred pounds.
Im mindful this loan was to repaid over ten years. That is a significant commitment 
and I note BPF appears to have been aware that if the loan ran to term Mrs G would 
have been in her early eighties when it was paid off. All of this ought to have 
prompted it to have completed more thorough checks to ensure the lending was 
affordable and sustainable over such a long term. I think it ought to have done more 
to verify Mrs Gs income and her regular expenditure.
Just because I dont think BPF completed proportionate affordability checks, it 
doesnt automatically follow that the complaint should be upheld. I still need to be 
satisfied that in lending to Mrs G it acted unfairly and caused her a loss. However, Im 
not persuaded thats the case. Ill explain why.
I cant be certain what evidence and information BPF would have reviewed if it had 
completed proportionate checks. But in the absence of anything done by BPF, Ive 
reviewed Mrs Gs bank statements from around the time of the lending decision and 
asked her for further details of her finances. I think these give a good indication of 
what BPF would likely have discovered if it had carried out proportionate affordability 
checks.
Mrs G has told us, and supplied evidence by way of her bank statements, that her 
only source of income was a pension payment of £220 per month. However, like 
BPF, Im not persuaded those payments were pension payments. The reference 
attached to the payment appears to indicate these were separate benefit payments.
Ive noted that Mrs G has told us she was retired at the time of the application. 
However, shes also told us she retired some time after the application and ultimately 
that she isnt sure which is true. All of this is further reason why Im not persuaded 
the £220 is likely to be her pension income. However, even if I accept that she only 
earned £220 per month at the time of the application and that this is what BPF would 
have discovered, Im still not persuaded the loan was unaffordable or caused her any 
loss.
I say this because shes told us that her husband paid all the household bills, 
including their mortgage. Those were his responsibility. The bank statements Mrs G 
has provided to us demonstrate that appears to be true, her account only shows the 
£220 monthly income and small non-essential expenditure. Her account balance is 
generally maintained at around £500 in credit with only minor fluctuations.
While £115.36 represented more than half of the £220, it appears this was still 
affordable as she had no other regular committed expenditure. When I asked Mrs G 
why she took out the loan rather than her husband, she said this was because she 
believed she could afford it from her income. This suggests that Mrs G would have 
presented the situation as such if BPF had asked for more information and evidence 
of her financial circumstances and that didnt appear to be an unreasonable belief 
from what Ive seen.
It seems BPF would likely have discovered that Mrs Gs husband was responsible for 
all of their essential bills and expenditure and Mrs Gs income (whatever that true 
figure might have been) was all disposable income.
I asked Mrs G to provide copies of her bank statements for two years after she 
entered into the BPF loan. These demonstrate that Mrs Gs monthly income of £220 
into her account was sufficient to service the loan repayments and her other ad-hoc 
purchases. Her account balance remained at around £500 in credit each month (as it 
had before the loan) without any signs that she needed to resort to further borrowing 
to sustain the repayments. This means that even if I thought BPF shouldnt have lent 
to her, I cant see that its actions have caused her any loss.
Taking everything into consideration, while I think BPF ought to have completed more thorough affordability checks, Im not persuaded its failure to do that caused 
Mrs G any loss.
BPF accepted my provisional decision and Mrs G had no further comments or evidence to 
provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any new comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. Im therefore 
satisfied that BPF didnt complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks when 
lending to Mrs G, but its failure to do so didnt cause her any loss. For this reason, I dont 
think BPF needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman