DRN-4439061
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  He says they shouldnt have lent to 
him as the loan was unaffordable. A representative has brought the complaint on Mr Ms 
behalf but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with Mr M.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr M took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, to finance 
the purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £500 and borrowed £10,799 - the cash price of 
the vehicle was £11,299. The agreement required him to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£379.18. Mr M first missed a payment in December 2022 when a direct debit bounced, and 
his payments have been sporadic since then.
In January 2023, Mr M complained to Moneybarn, saying they were irresponsible in lending 
to him. He wanted them to refund all interest and charges.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one of 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs). They said this showed Mr M had a previous County 
Court Judgment (CCJ) but that this was 56 months prior to his application. They said it 
showed no defaults or insolvency information and low existing borrowing levels. 
Moneybarn added that theyd checked Mr Ms income using one of the CRA tools. This 
check uses information from a customers current account to confirm regular income. They 
said they verified Mr Ms monthly income of £1,600 and determined that this was in line with 
his stated employment as a delivery driver. 
Moneybarn said they checked Mr Ms credit commitments using the CRA and calculated his 
non-discretionary expenditure using Office for National Statistics (ONS) data. On that basis 
they decided he had disposable income of £592.40 each month and so the agreement was 
affordable.
Mr M wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought his complaint to our service and 
one of our investigators looked into the complaint. His view was that Moneybarns checks 
hadnt been proportionate  but if they had, Moneybarn would have been able to fairly 
decide that the repayment was affordable and that it was reasonable to lend to Mr M. 
Mr M rejected our investigators view, saying that the amount of money Moneybarn had 
calculated for discretionary income (£213) wasnt enough. And he said he had a recent CCJ 
at the time of his application and was primarily dependent on Universal Credit for his income, 
as well as regularly using high-cost lenders. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr M, Im not upholding his 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator - Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Ms credit file; 
verified his income of £1,600 using a CRA tool; and
calculated his monthly non-discretionary expenditure at £965 using ONS data.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Moneybarn found.
Moneybarn havent kept a copy of the credit file they looked at, but they said it showed Mr M 
had no outstanding defaults and one CCJ which was nearly 5 years old. Because 
Moneybarns copy of Mr Ms credit report isnt available, Ive looked at the credit report Mr M 
provided to see what else Moneybarn might have been aware of.
Mr Ms credit report shows a CCJ registered in March 2019  20 months before his 
application for this finance. Mr Ms copy of the credit report doesnt show anything else of 
any significance  I cant see any other indicators that Mr M might have been in any financial 
difficulties at the time of his application to Moneybarn. Im aware Mr Ms said he was using 
high-cost credit in the months leading up to this loan, but theres no evidence of this on his 
credit report, so I cant say Moneybarn should have been aware of this.
Moneybarn have provided no information about the CRA tool they say they used to check 
Mr Ms income. And I cant see that they made any other efforts to understand what Mr Ms 
income would be. CONC 5.2A.15R requires a firm to take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount or make an estimate of the customers current income (unless they can demonstrate 
that its obvious that the customer is able to make repayments).  Moneybarn havent 
demonstrated that it was obvious that Mr M would be able to make repayments. And they 
havent demonstrated that they took reasonable steps to determine the amount of Mr Ms 
income. 
As well as checking Mr Ms credit file and using the CRA tool to verify his income, 
Moneybarn say they used ONS data to estimate his expenditure. CONC allows the use of 
statistical data, unless there is reasonable cause to suspect that a customers non-
discretionary expenditure is higher than that described in the data. At the time of the lending 
decision, Mr Ms most recent CCJ was nearly two years ago. And I havent seen any other 
indicators that Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure would be higher than the average. But 
Moneybarn havent provided any detail of what the ONS data showed or any other evidence 
that they undertook the check.
Mr Ms loan required him to make repayments of nearly 25% of his net monthly income for 
five years so the checks needed to be thorough. On balance, Ive not seen enough evidence 
to be satisfied Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms 
application for finance.What would Moneybarn have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mr Ms 
income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ms main bank account for the three months leading up to 
his application to Moneybarn. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements 
as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements 
provide a good indication of Mr Ms income and expenditure at the time the lending decision 
was made.
The bank statements show Mr Ms income was inconsistent. He was receiving benefits of 
just over £1,000 each month but had other income on top of this - £1,000 in August 2020, 
£275 in September and £689 in October. Looking at the months that followed, his income 
increased as he appears to have started to work more consistently. Moneybarn assessed 
Mr Ms income as £1,600 and Im satisfied theyd have reasonably been able to assess his 
net monthly income as £1,600 if theyd done proportionate checks.
Looking at regular payments from Mr Ms bank statements doesnt provide much information 
about his non-discretionary expenditure. He was making payments of around £120 per 
month for TV, internet and mobile services and around £220 for existing debts. It looks like 
his rent was around £300 per month and he was spending small ad-hoc amounts on fuel and 
food. But Mr M transferred the majority of his income to his wife  it seems likely that she 
then paid Mr Ms other costs of living. When Mr M raised his complaint, he said his 
expenditure at the time was £400 on rent and £600 on other commitments. And when 
Moneybarn used ONS figures, they thought Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure would 
have been in the region of £1,000. Taking all this together, if Moneybarn had done 
proportionate checks, Im satisfied theyd still have been able to have assessed Mr Ms non-
discretionary expenditure as £1,000.
Deducting this £1,000 and the monthly payments of £380 from Mr Ms net monthly income of 
£1,600 suggests he had around £220 left over for discretionary and emergency expenditure. 
I appreciate Mr Ms said this isnt enough  but hes not given any particular reasons for this. 
CONC only requires a business to assess a customers income and non-discretionary 
expenditure and to determine whether making the repayments under the loan would likely 
have a significant adverse effect on the customers financial situation - it doesnt require the 
business to factor in discretionary expenditure. Im satisfied £220 per month is enough to 
cover emergencies. 
In summary, Ive seen limited evidence of Mr Ms financial commitments and non-
discretionary expenditure and Im satisfied that if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks 
they could have reasonably arrived at the same outcome and decided the loan was 
affordable for Mr M. So Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman