DRN-4169548
The complaint
Mr L complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined his home emergency claim.
Accredited Insurance is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of its agent. As Accredited Insurance has accepted it is accountable for 
the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Accredited Insurance includes the 
actions of the agent. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr L phoned Accredited Insurance because he was having a problem 
with his heating.
Accredited Insurance told Mr L its engineers were currently very busy due to the time of 
year. It suggested Mr L get his own engineer to rectify the issue and send Accredited 
Insurance the invoice. 
Mr L arranged for his own engineer to fix the issue. He sent Accredited Insurance the 
invoice, but he says it told him it needed to see a more detailed one, which he also provided. 
Accredited Insurance then informed him that there was no cover for the claim.
Mr L complained to Accredited Insurance, but it maintained its position. So, Mr L asked our 
service to consider the matter. He said he wanted Accredited Insurance to process his claim 
and pay him £175.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Accredited Insurance had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it declined the 
claim.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked for his case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He said he wanted the ombudsman to also look at it from a customer service 
angle and listen to the calls. He said Accredited Insurance had led him on to get the invoices 
together and submit them. If it had told him on the first call that the terms and conditions 
didnt cover the costs it would have been a different matter. He said the main source of his 
complaint was the delay, stress and inconvenience caused to him. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the boiler and heating system section of the policy terms, it says cover is provided for: 
An emergency relating to all or part of your central-heating system or your boiler and 
controls failing, caused by a breakdown or leak.
In declining Mr Ls claim, Accredited Insurance has referred to wording in the policy terms 
that excludes cover for: 
lighting boilers, operating them correctly, or adjusting the time or temperature controls;
And its also referred to this wording:
We will not replace any item that cannot be repaired (for example, we will not replace water 
tanks, cylinders, radiators or radiator valves).
The invoice Mr L provided from the engineer who fixed the issue with his heating shows an 
amount next to Replace wireless controls (existing controls inoperable) parts cost plus a 
charge for labour.
The wireless controls dont seem to be included in the policys definition of boilers and 
controls. And, in any event, the policy doesnt cover the costs or replacing an item. So, I 
think it was fair for Accredited Insurance to decline Mr Ls claim.
Mr L says is main complaint is that Accredited Insurance misled him and caused him delay, 
stress and inconvenience.
Ive listened to the call where Mr L first raised the claim. There was a discussion about what 
the issue might be. The Accredited Insurance representative said that if the thermostat 
needed to be replaced it wouldnt be covered, but if there was an issue with the boiler it 
might. So, I dont think Accredited Insurance was in a position to tell Mr L whether or not the 
issue would be covered during the call.
The representative suggested Mr L try to get someone out to rectify his heating issue and 
send Accredited Insurance the invoice for the call out fee, parts and labour. He said: If it 
meets the terms and conditions of your policy, we could look to recover the cost of repairs up 
to your policy limit of £300
There was further discussion about how a pay and claim worked. The representative said 
that if the parts and labour fell within the terms and conditions of the policy, Accredited 
Insurance could look to cover the costs up to the policy limit.
So, Im satisfied that Accredited Insurance made it clear to Mr L that the costs of rectifying 
the issue might not be covered by the policy. 
From what I can see Mr L was advised that there was no cover for his claim around six 
weeks after he first raised it. When he phoned to check on progress, Accredited Insurance 
told him that it had been busier than usual due to adverse weather. Keeping in mind the time 
of year, Im not persuaded there was an unreasonable delay in notifying Mr L of the outcome 
of his claim. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr L, but I think Accredited Insurance has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman