DRN-3973402
The complaint
Ms N and Mr R are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General, 
because it declined a claim they made for a problem with their septic tank.
Ms N is the lead complainant and has been represented. For simplicity Ill refer to her only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill summarise the main points:
Overall, Fairmead has declined the claim on the basis there was no evidence of 
accidental damage.
The policy covers accidental damage to buildings. Its accepted that the septic tank 
forms part of the buildings. The policy definition of accidental damage is sudden, 
unintentional and unexpected physical damage that can be seen.
For the claim to be accepted, that means Ms N must show the septic tank has 
suffered damage that meets all points within this policy definition.
Ms N has provided evidence from a drainage company, X. It initially said surface 
water was getting into the tank, although it couldnt identify the point of ingress. After 
subsequent investigation, it found water was entering the tank around the connection 
to the inlet pipe. It said it excavated around the tank to confirm this.
Fairmead appointed a drainage company, A, to carry out its own inspection. It said 
the water was coming from a defective toilet cistern in the stable, travelling into the 
tank through the inlet pipe. Ms N turned off the water to the stable but found the tank 
continued to fill with water. She thought this supported Xs view more than As.
A returned and met X on site. A said X showed it a video from the excavation  but 
this didnt show a problem with the connection to the inlet pipe. A didnt excavate the 
area around the tank as X had done. A noted this meant it couldnt determine the 
condition of the connection or whether it was the cause of water ingress. But it said 
that even if this was the cause of water entering the tank, it didnt see any way the 
problem could have been caused by accidental damage as defined by the policy.
Ms N says accidental damage has been shown because X identified physical 
damage to the connection that could be seen. And to Ms N, this problem was 
sudden, unintentional and unforeseen.
X has excavated around the tank to support its view that the inlet connection has 
failed and allowed surface water to leak into the tank. A had the opportunity to check 
this, but didnt do so. It acknowledges this means it doesnt know the condition of the 
connection. That means it cant persuasively challenge what X has said.
A thought the problem originated in the stable toilet. But the water problem continued 
even after the stable water supply was isolated and prevented from travelling down 
the inlet pipe. So I dont think this supports what A has said.
On balance, I think Xs view on causation is more likely than As. So Im satisfied its 
likely the inlet connection has failed and has caused the problem.
Returning to the definition of accidental damage, I think its accepted the problem 
amounts to unintentional and unexpected physical damage that can be seen. X saw 
the physical connection problem. And theres nothing to suggest it was intentional or 
foreseeable. Fairmead has said the problem is more akin to wear and tear. Its not 
relying on a wear and tear policy exclusion. Instead, I understand its making the 
point that the damage isnt indicative of a sudden event and is gradual in nature.
Ms N says the damage was sudden to her. Theres no suggestion she was, or ought 
to have been, aware of the damage earlier. But I think the definition requires the 
damage itself to be sudden  rather than for Ms N to discover it suddenly.
The evidence provided doesnt explain how the connection is likely to have become 
damaged suddenly. X hasnt set out a cause for the connections failure in its reports. 
Ms Ns suggestion that the cause was hydrostatic pressure hasnt been ruled out. But 
even if that were the cause, I havent seen anything to indicate that would have 
happened suddenly. Generally I think its more likely to be a gradual process.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Fairmead to 
decline the claim on the basis there hasnt been accidental damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman