DRN-2252570
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the increase in premium for trip extension cover on his travel insurance 
policy, which is underwritten by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As our investigator has explained to Mr P, insurers can choose what information to 
consider when setting the price of a policy. Insurers then look at these factors and 
decide what weight to place on them. The resulting premium is based on what risk 
the insurer wants to take. I have no power to tell insurers which factors to take into 
account, or the weight it places on them. However, I can consider whether AXA has 
treated Mr P fairly, and in the same way it would have done any other customer in 
the same circumstances.
Ive considered the evidence provided by AXA to show how Mr Ps premium increase 
was calculated. Ive also looked at the difference between Mr Ps renewal quote and 
the price he paid for the previous year. Having done so, Im satisfied AXA has treated 
Mr P fairly when it priced his policy based on the factors it considered. And Im also 
satisfied the price increase would have been reflected to other customers in the 
same circumstances.
I understand Mr Ps concerns about the higher cost compared to the previous years 
premium, but I can see AXA wrote to him before the policy renewed to show what the 
price would be for the new policy year. This meant Mr P had an opportunity to look 
for alternative cover if he wasnt happy with the price being quoted. So Im not going 
to require AXA to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman