DRN-3696115
The complaint
Mrs R complains Match the Cash Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her.
What happened
Match the Cash brought about a £7,750 loan for Mrs R. The term of the loan was 60 months 
and the monthly repayments were effectively £300 per month. The purpose of the loan was 
disclosed as being for debt consolidation. Mrs R says Match the Cash did not complete 
reasonable and proportionate enquiries. She says had it done so it wouldve seen the loan 
was unaffordable to her.
Our investigator did not recommend this complaint be upheld. His view was that Match the 
Cash had completed reasonable and proportionate enquiries; and these had shown the loan 
was likely affordable for Mrs R. Our investigator noted that the loan was for debt 
consolidation and as such Match the Cash were entitled to take this into account when 
concluding if the loan was affordable to Mrs R.
Mrs R disagreed with the assessment. She did not provide further information or arguments 
in response to our investigators assessment, but requested an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mrs R and Match the Cash are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail 
here. 
Having reviewed the file Im satisfied Match the Cash made a fair decision to lend to Mrs R. 
It follows that I do not require Match the Cash to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint. This is broadly for the same reasons that our investigator gave. I note Mrs R has 
not provided any further information or arguments in response to our investigators view for 
me to consider.
Having reviewed all of the information which had been provided Im satisfied that Match the 
Cash completed reasonable and proportionate enquiries in this instance. Match the Cash 
completed a search of Mrs Rs credit file, conducted an affordability assessment and verified 
this information with bank statements.
The information showed that Mrs R had around £10,000 in existing debts. She had some 
defaulted debts of approximately £3,000 and the majority of the active credit was made up 
from an existing guarantor loan and credit cards. Her credit file demonstrated that she did 
have issues managing credit in the past; and had had defaults in the not too distant past.
The bank statements showed the active credit that had been seen on the credit report. And 
showed that on the whole Mrs R was managing her finances outside of her overdraft. The 
income matched her declared amount. Match the Cash also took down details of her non-
credit commitments including her utility bills. The information Match the Cash gathered did 
not give it reason to challenge the declarations that Mrs R had made.
So considering the above Im satisfied the enquiries Match the Cash completed enabled it to 
get a good understanding of Mrs Rs financial circumstances. It took steps to verify the 
information it had been provided; and was able to understand which existing debts Mrs R 
was looking to consolidate. As such Im satisfied the enquiries were reasonable and 
proportionate in this instance.
Im also satisfied that Match the Cash made a fair decision to bring about the loan in this 
instance too. As our investigator highlighted before; Mrs R had declared the purpose of this 
loan was to consolidate down her existing credit commitments. As such Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Match the Cash to rely on this information and take into account that her 
existing debts would not continue going forward. I note that Mrs R and Match the Cash had 
discussed which debts were being consolidated, and this included effectively all of her active 
credit  including her largest existing credit (her guarantor loan). So Im satisfied Match the 
Cash had a decent understanding of what Mrs R was going to do with the proceeds of this 
loan; and considering this was its first loan with Mrs R, it was entitled to rely on the fact she 
was going to do this.
Taking the consolidation into consideration Im satisfied it would have reduced Mrs Rs 
monthly outgoings; and would have appeared to be affordable to her. I note that the Match 
the Cash interest and APR was likely the same if not better than her existing credit 
commitments so Im also persuaded its decision to lend was reasonable in that regard too.
Ive seen no information that suggests Match the Cash acted unfairly in any other way. 
So for the reasons set out above Im satisfied that Match the Cash acted reasonably when 
bringing about this loan for Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman