DRN-2758464
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Gefion Insurance A/S delayed settling a claim on his taxi 
insurance policy.  
Reference to Gefion includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen. He claimed on his policy. After investigating the claim Gefion told 
Mr K it would settle his claim by paying off the outstanding finance on the car direct to the 
finance provider and send the balance between that sum and the market value of the car to 
him. It told him on 14 February 2020 that it had raised payment.
Mr K didn't receive any payment and complained. Eventually, in August 2020 Gefion settled 
the outstanding balance on the finance agreement for his car of around £16,315. But it didn't 
pay the balance of £4,484 owing to Mr K.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. But Gefion didn't respond to his 
requests for its file. In February 2021, based on the limited information Mr K had provided, 
our investigator said he thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Gefion should pay 
Mr K the balance owing of £4,484, add simple interest to that sum and pay Mr K 
compensation of £1,200.
Gefion didn't provide a response to our investigators assessment of the complaint. So its 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
As Gefion hasn't ever provided us with its file I've had to arrive at my conclusions based on 
the evidence provided by Mr K. Gefion told us in March 2021 that the complaint should have 
been directed to its agents who hold its delegated authority. But we initially sent the file 
request to Gefion in September 2020. And its its responsibility to ensure that request went 
to the appropriate agents. However, we redirected our enquiries directly to Gefions agents. 
But it still didn't reply. So I've arrived at my conclusions based on the information we do hold.
From the evidence that is available I can see Gefion valued Mr Ks car at £20,800. And it 
paid Mr Ks finance company £16,315.54. That means there is an outstanding balance owing 
to Mr K of £4,484.46. So, unless it has already done so, I think it should pay this sum to Mr K 
now. It should add simple interest to that amount as set out below. Further, I'm aware that 
being without the settlement for his car has been a source if immense distress for Mr K at 
what was already a very difficult time. He had to continue paying his finance agreement until 
Gefion settled the outstanding sum. And Im aware that he had to hire a replacement car 
because Gefion hadn't settled his claim. He said that until his claim was settled he wasn't 
able to budget effectively. To address that I think it should pay him £1,200 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless its already done so I require 
Gefion Insurance A/S to:
Pay to Mr K the balance outstanding for the value of his car of £4,484.46. It should 
add simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from 14 February 2020 when 
it told him it had raised payment to the date it pays him.1
Pay Mr K £1,200 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Gefion considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give him/her/them 
a certificate showing this if s/he asks for one, so s/he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.