DRN-1915962
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have administered 
his mortgage account. Hes unhappy Halifax have added his arrears to his mortgage 
balance, and believes hes paying more interest than he should be as a result. 
Mr J also complains that Halifax have sent him letters threatening to take repossession when 
hes been paying more than the contractual monthly payment (CMP).
What happened
Mr J has a mortgage with Halifax which is currently in arrears. The outcome of a previous 
complaint made by Mr J meant that his mortgage account was re-structured, and it was 
confirmed in February 2018 that following this remediation, his CMP would be £511.71. 
Halifax told Mr J that he would need to make separate arrangements to repay the arrears, 
which were £5,392.53 at the time, and explained that he could capitalise the arrears onto the 
mortgage if he wanted to, to ensure they were repaid before the end of the term.
Following this letter, Mr J began paying the new CMP, plus an additional payment of £100 
per month towards the arrears. During this time Halifax were sending Mr J letters each 
month asking him to call them to discuss how we would repay the arrears. Mr J did call 
Halifax a few times, but no formal arrangements were agreed.
In September 2018, Mr Js CMP increased to £523.28 following a rise in the interest rate. 
Mr J continued to pay the CMP each month, but stopped paying an additional amount 
towards the arrears.
In April 2019, Halifax remediated Mr Js mortgage account again following guidance issued 
by the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They told him that as a result, his 
CMP had increased to £542.83, and that he would need to be paying £574 in total per month 
in order to ensure the arrears were cleared by the end of the term. Mr J called Halifax 
following this letter, and he agreed an arrangement to pay £600 for three months.
After the three-month period ended, Halifax wrote to Mr J to ask him to contact them about 
the arrears. The letters explained that if an arrangement wasnt made, Halifax would begin 
legal action to recover the outstanding arrears, which were just over £3,000 at the time. Mr J 
continued to pay £600 per month until October 2019.
Mr J complained to Halifax, as he was unhappy he was being threatened with legal action 
whilst he was paying more than his CMP. He wasnt happy his CMP kept changing, and he 
was concerned the arrears had been added back onto the mortgage incorrectly. He didnt 
feel Halifax had complied with the outcome of his previous complaint.
Halifax explained that they had completed the remediation following the last complaint, but 
the rectifications werent complete until April 2019 when they confirmed Mr Js CMP would 
be £542.83. They said that whilst Mr J had been paying more than his CMP, they need to 
agree a formal arrangement to avoid arrears letters or calls being made. This would also be 
needed to prevent further action being taken on the account. They encouraged Mr J to call 
and agree an arrangement to repay the arrears.
 
Mr Js CMP has changed again in April and May 2020 following interest rate changes. His 
CMP is now £531.09, but he would need to pay £562.55 per month to ensure the arrears are 
cleared by the end of the term. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, and, in 
summary, she explained that she was satisfied Halifax had remediated Mr Js account 
correctly. She said she thought Halifax were requesting the correct CMP, and that Mr J 
hadnt been charged more interest than he should have been as a result. She didnt think 
Halifax had acted unreasonably by sending Mr J letters about recovery action, as an 
arrangement hadnt been agreed. She encouraged Mr J to seek independent financial 
advice, as he said he wants Halifax to take control of the property and sell it for him.
Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He also raised concerns about the 
fact Halifax hadnt agreed to a payment holiday following the impact of the pandemic, 
although that issue hasnt been considered under this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J feels strongly about this complaint and doesnt trust that Halifax have 
administered his mortgage correctly. I can appreciate why Mr J may have been confused 
about what he needs to pay, as his account has undergone two separate remediation 
exercises, and his CMP has changed several times over recent years.
The initial remediation took place following a previous complaint. Halifax told Mr J at the time 
that they would re-calculate his CMP as a result, and that theyd be in touch again once their 
systems had been changed to ensure the account had been corrected fully.
Having looked at what Halifax have done here, Im satisfied that they have now fully 
remediated the mortgage account in line with the regulators expectations, and the 
information Halifax gave Mr J about his CMP and outstanding arrears balance in April 2019 
was correct. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr J has been charged any more interest than 
he should have been as a part of the remediation exercises.
 
Halifax told Mr J at the time that he would need to make separate arrangements to repay the 
arrears. Mr J has been paying additional amounts towards the mortgage in order to reduce 
the arrears balance, but with the exception of a three-month period in 2019, these have not 
been arrangements that have been agreed with Halifax. And so Halifax have told Mr J they 
will start legal action if an arrangement is not agreed. Halifax put the legal action on hold to 
allow our service to consider the complaint.
When a mortgage account is in arrears, we would expect the lender to take legal action to 
repossess the property only as a last resort. Given Mr Js recent payment history, Im not 
persuaded Halifax have reached that point, and I think this situation has been caused by a 
breakdown in communication.
 
Mr J seems to be under the impression that he does not need to agree an arrangement with 
Halifax, as his previous complaint established what he needed to pay. But as part of the 
outcome of the previous complaint, our service explained that Mr J would need to work with Halifax to agree arrangements to repay the arrears. Its clear Mr J intends to repay the 
arrears, but it seems to be how he does this which is the cause of the problem here.
There is an outstanding arrears balance on the mortgage, which Mr J is unable to repay in 
one lump sum. So some form of arrangement is going to need to be discussed and agreed 
to ensure this amount is repaid before the end of the mortgage term in around seven years 
time. In the latest income and expenditure assessment that Mr J completed, it showed that 
Mr J can afford to pay the CMP, plus an additional amount towards the arrears each month.
 
Halifax have offered to manually capitalise Mr Js arrears onto the mortgage balance. This 
would mean that the mortgage would no longer be reported as in arrears, and Mr J would 
just need to make one monthly payment moving forward, although this would be higher than 
the current CMP  it would be lower than what hes been paying when hes paid the CMP 
plus an additional payment. However, if Mr J would prefer to continue paying the CMP plus 
an additional payment each month, this is likely to repay the arrears more quickly, but his 
account would be showing as being in arrears until they are fully repaid. Either way, Halifax 
needs to have this conversation with Mr J about what would be more affordable for him and 
what he would prefer to do. And Mr J will need to engage with this conversation in order for 
this matter to be resolved.
The fact that this hasnt been resolved so far I think can be attributed to both parties 
involved. I think Halifax could have shown more flexibility when discussing options with Mr J, 
as it seemed that the way Mr J wanted to repay the arrears couldnt be agreed for process-
related reasons. I also dont think it was appropriate to only put in place short term 
arrangements that required Mr J to keep calling up every few months to give information 
about his circumstances if they hadnt changed.
 
Having said this, its clear that during the conversations Mr J had with Halifax, these became 
frustrated and unproductive, so its not clear that an arrangement could have been reached 
even had Halifax approached things differently. Moving forwards, I would expect to see 
Halifax taking account of Mr Js individual circumstances, and working with him to agree a 
plan that will achieve the mutual goal of repaying the arrears within the mortgage term. Id 
expect Mr J to engage with this process too.
In summary, Im satisfied that Halifax have remediated Mr Js mortgage account in line with 
the relevant guidelines, which I think is the fair thing for them to do in this instance. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Halifax have administered Mr Js account incorrectly since then, 
and Im not persuaded Mr J has suffered a financial loss as a result of Halifaxs actions.
Whilst I do think Halifax could have handled things slightly differently here in their approach 
to agreeing payment arrangements, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference to 
the outcome, as Mr J did not think he needed to make an arrangement at all.
I understand Mr J is now considering selling the mortgaged property, whether he does this 
himself or through Halifax, I would encourage him to seek independent advice about his 
options and discuss his plans with Halifax.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman