DRN-4445092
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) excluded a number of health 
conditions on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R has a travel insurance policy underwritten by Aviva, attached to her bank account. 
Mrs R contacted Aviva using an online form to update it about changes to her health. Aviva 
called Mrs R and completed an assessment. Aviva excluded a number of Mrs Rs conditions 
which Mrs R was unhappy about. She raised a complaint as she said the online form 
promised a call back within 5 days and this didnt happen. She was unhappy with Avivas 
response and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
Mrs R disagreed and said Aviva excluded previously accepted conditions and our 
investigator should have reviewed the website to print or view the online form.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The online form Mrs R completed is no longer available. Aviva say the form promised 
a call back 7 days before departure or the balance becoming due. Mrs R says the 
form promised a call back within 5 days. Mrs R completed the form on around 28 
September 2022 and Aviva called her on 20 October 2022. She was due to travel 13 
days later. I havent seen any evidence that the time between Mrs R completing the 
form and Aviva calling her back caused any loss to her. There is no evidence that 
Mrs R chased Aviva for a response which is what I would expect if she was 
concerned about the time taken. As I havent seen any evidence that she was 
promised a call back within 5 days, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here. 
Mrs R is also unhappy that Aviva excluded conditions it had previously covered. 
Aviva has provided its underwriting criteria to show that the conditions were excluded 
as a result of changes to Mrs Rs conditions. So it didnt treat Mrs R unfairly by 
excluding the conditions it did. The previously accepted conditions no longer met the 
criteria for cover. The information Aviva has provided is commercially sensitive so I 
cannot share this with Mrs R. But I would like to reassure Mrs R that I have carefully 
checked the information provided to ensure Mrs R hasnt been treated differently to 
other customers in the same circumstances. This is the test I have to apply to decide 
whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably. The criteria applied to Mrs R is the 
same that would be applied to any other customer with the same conditions.
Mrs R had also complained that Aviva called her in the morning and she had asked 
for calls in the afternoon. There is no evidence that Aviva were not asked to call in 
the morning but I am pleased to see it noted this request on its system so that Mrs R 
wouldnt receive further calls in the morning. I think this was the right thing to do.
Overall, I think Aviva has acted fairly. I appreciate Mrs R is unhappy that Aviva has 
excluded a number of her health conditions. But an insurer is entitled to decide the 
level of risk it is willing to take and can exclude conditions it deems to be too risky. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman