DRN-2687689
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont indemnify him under his motor insurance 
policy for the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen and eventually bought by another person in good faith. Mr H reported 
the theft to Aviva and it initially agreed to settle the claim. But Mr H told Aviva that he was 
taking civil proceedings against the cars new owner and so it didnt then settle the claim. 
The court found in Mr Hs favour and the new owner was given the option, which he took, of 
paying a sum, £22,000 into court. £20,000 of this was damages for Mr H to cover the cars 
value. Mr H then went back to Aviva but it rejected his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
had decided to take legal action to try and recover his car rather than allow Aviva to settle 
the claim. He thought Mr H had already been indemnified for the market value of his car by 
the court. So he thought Aviva wouldnt be able to recover any costs by settling Mr Hs claim. 
And so he didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further. 
Mr H replied that he thought this was unfair as he was now without his car and had suffered 
financially due to the legal costs hed incurred. He thought the claim costs should now be 
paid. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels frustrated that he won his court case but is still no better off 
having lost his car and having to pay legal costs. Its not for me to comment on what the 
court has decided. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
It took Mr H four years to report the theft of his car to Aviva. Despite this delay, it agreed to 
deal with the claim under the policys terms and conditions. But Mr H wanted to recover his 
car. Aviva was unable to tell him how much it would cost him to buy back the car if it was 
recovered. I think that was fair and reasonable as the car had been missing for so long. 
So Mr H decided to take civil proceedings against the new owner to establish who was the 
cars legal owner. The outcome was that the court found that Mr H was the cars rightful 
owner and it had been stolen. But it also found that the new owner had bought the car in 
good faith and hed spent a considerable sum restoring it. The court gave him the option of 
paying Mr H the cars pre-accident value or to return the car to Mr H. But Mr H would then 
have to repay him for the restoration costs. The new owner chose the first course. 
The result was that Mr H was indemnified for the loss of his car. I can understand that hes 
incurred considerable legal costs in achieving this. But I cant reasonably hold Aviva 
responsible for this. I think it had fairly and reasonably offered to settle the claim when Mr H 
first reported the theft. 
The policy provides the following, 
Section E  General conditions applying to all parts of this policy
If we pay a claim under any cover provided by this insurance, we will be entitled to ask for all 
reasonable help from you to take action in your name to get back our costs from another 
organisation.
If Mr H had decided to accept Avivas initial offer to settle his claim, then it would have been 
able to attempt to recover its costs. As it is now, if Aviva settled Mr Hs claim, then it would 
be unable to recover its costs as the new owner has already paid the cars value from the 
time of its loss to Mr H. 
Also, Mr H would then be paid for his claim twice, once by the new owner through the court, 
and once by Aviva. I think this would leave Mr H in a better position than he was before the 
loss. And this is outside the policy terms and conditions as it indemnifies him for his loss, 
that is, to restore him to the position he was in before the loss by either recovering the car or 
paying him its value, not to improve his position.
So I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions, in rejecting his claim. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman