DRN-3468711
The complaint
Mr C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds failure to make payment 
under the rent protection section of his insurance policy.  
Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) use claims handlers to manage their claims. Where I 
refer to the acts and omissions of RSA, I am also referring to those of their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C had rent protection insurance (RPI) as part of landlords insurance he took out through 
an insurance intermediary. He made a claim on the policy in 2019 when his tenant failed to 
pay their rent. In March 2020 the court made an order the tenant should give possession of 
the property that month and pay rent arrears, interest and legal costs. There was a delay in 
getting vacant possession of the property due to restrictions in place because of the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
In April 2020, the intermediary let Mr C know RSA would be underwriting the RPI policy from 
mid-May 2020 onwards, taking over from Mr Cs previous insurer. 
The previous insurers agreed to pay Mr C 12 months rent which they said was the limit of 
indemnity under the policy. They said any claims following the renewal of the policy in May 
2020 would have to be made to RSA. Mr C made a claim to RSA in around August 2020. 
RSA said they werent liable to make any payments since it was a continuation of the claim 
Mr C had made before they started to underwrite the policy and should be directed to the 
previous insurer. 
The previous insurer agreed later to pay the full amount of Mr Cs claim for 18 months loss 
of rent, without admitting they were liable to do so under the policy. Mr C felt that payment 
should have been made sooner. He said hed suffered financial hardship when it wasnt and 
should be compensated for that. 
RSA said Mr C should raise his concerns with the previous insurer. Since Mr C wasnt happy 
with the response, he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator 
didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. Since Mr C didnt agree, his complaints been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the impact Mr Cs insurance claim had on his health and personal 
circumstances. And I can understand Mr C may have found it frustrating that the parties 
involved in his insurance claim appeared to be passing responsibility for addressing his 
concerns to each other. But it is right to look at which company was providing insurance 
cover to Mr C at the relevant times. And, to be clear, I am only considering Mr Cs complaint 
about RSA here. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and not to reject claims unreasonably. Ive considered Mr Cs complaint 
against that background. 
The policy information Mr C received in April 2020, before policy renewal in May, made clear 
that Mr Cs RPI was transferring to RSA; some changes were being made to the cover 
provided; and the period of insurance was for 12 months beginning in mid-May 2020.
The policy set out that RSA was providing RPI for rent arrears which Mr C notified to them 
during the period of insurance  the 12 months starting in mid-May 2020 and ending in mid-
May 2021 - and within 45 days of the event giving rise to the claim, up to the limit of 
indemnity set out in the policy. The policy also provided cover after vacant possession had 
been obtained, until the property had been re-let, for a maximum of two months and up to a 
maximum of 75% of the rent. 
The cover was subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and any exclusions.
The exclusions to RPI cover in the RSA policy included 
any claim where the date of the event giving rise to the claim was before the policy 
began and which Mr C knew or ought reasonably to have known may give rise to a 
dispute by or against him
any loss resulting from an event that happened before the period of insurance started
The date of event was defined as being the date of any event which may lead to a claim; and 
where there was more than one such event, the date of the first event.
The tenant first fell into arrears in around June 2019. The court order made on 9 March set 
out the rent arrears owed by the tenant. And it said the tenant had to vacate by 23 March 
2020. Due to restrictions imposed during the coronavirus pandemic, I understand no action 
to evict the tenant was possible until around the end of August. Mr C made his claim to RSA 
that month. 
The tenant first missed a rental payment in around June 2019. That was the first of a series 
of missed rental payments forming part of the RPI claim. RSA said that, in line with the policy 
definition, the first missed payment was the first of a series of events giving rise to the 
insurance claim. The claim was therefore excluded as the events pre-dated the RSA policy. 
And they said since Mr C didnt notify his claim until September 2020, he was outside the 45 
day period in any event.
I think RSA was right about that. Its not unusual for policies like Mr Cs to limit cover to 
events that happened during the period of the insurance policy or the period of rent arrears 
that may be covered. I wouldnt consider that to be unfair, provided the policy terms were 
clear, fair and not misleading. Im satisfied they were here.
Im pleased to note the previous insurers paid Mr C an additional six months loss of rent, so 
he wasnt out of pocket. And they dealt with the claim he made for cover in relation to the 
eviction. I appreciate Mr C would have liked payment to have been made sooner and he was 
in a difficult financial position as a result. But I dont think RSA can be blamed for that. They 
dealt with Mr Cs claim promptly and explained why they didnt think they were liable to 
indemnify him. I dont think they rejected his claim unfairly. Since RSA had no liability to 
indemnify Mr C, they arent responsible for any financial hardship Mr C may have suffered 
when his claim wasnt paid. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr C will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman