DRN-2658207
The complaint
Miss H complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited has turned down a 
curtailment claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Miss H took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a multi-
country trip to South America. The policy began on 6 January 2020. She travelled abroad as 
planned. As part of Miss Hs trip, she was due to take two tours and began the first tour on 
12 March 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the tour company 
suspended all tours between 16 March and the end of April 2020. As the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) also suggested that it would be suspending all flights to and 
from two of the countries Miss H was due to travel to, she cut short her trip and returned to 
the UK early. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the costs associated with 
cutting short her trip.
Catlin turned down Miss Hs claim. It said the policy didnt cover claims which arose directly 
or indirectly from epidemics which were placed under the control of local authorities. As Miss 
H had cut short her trip due to restrictions related to Covid-19, Catlin said the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. 
Miss H was unhappy with Catlins decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
said the World Health Organisation (WHO) had classified Covid-19 as a pandemic, rather 
than an epidemic. She felt that these two words were defined very differently.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. While the policy 
didnt specifically exclude pandemics, she felt that a pandemic was a type of epidemic. So 
she thought it was fair for Catlin to rely on its policy terms to turn down Miss Hs claim.
Miss H disagreed. Ive summarised her response. She felt there was a significant difference 
between the WHO definition of a pandemic and epidemic and the response to each. She felt 
the epidemic exclusion only applied to people who were travelling in the region affected by 
the epidemic. At the time she cut short her trip, there were very few cases of Covid-19 in 
South America. Her trip wasnt substantially affected until the WHO categorised Covid-19 as 
a pandemic and the FCO advised travellers to return to the UK. She felt it was unethical for 
Catlin to apply the exclusion clause to her claim. And she maintained that pandemics werent 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Catlin to turn down Miss Hs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Ive first carefully considered the terms of Miss Hs policy as these form the basis of her 
contract with Catlin. I can see that the policy she took out does cover curtailment in the event 
that the FCO, WHO or similar body advises against all, or all but essential travel to a specific 
region or country, if the advice is given after a policyholder has booked their trip.
Theres no dispute that Miss H booked her trip, took out her policy and travelled before 
Covid-19 was widely known about. And its also clear that her tours were cancelled due to 
Covid-19 restrictions. The FCO also went on to advise all British nationals abroad to return 
home on 23 March 2020. So I can understand why Miss H believes her claim should be 
dealt with under this section of the policy.
But I also need to look at the things Catlin has chosen not to cover. These are set out in the 
General Exclusions section of the policy. It says:
What's not covered under any part of your policy
We won't cover any loss, claim or expenses that directly or indirectly relate to or arise from 
the following, unless you have contacted us and we have confirmed in writing that you will be 
covered:
11. Epidemics which have been placed under the direction of public authorities.
I accept that the policy doesnt specifically exclude pandemics. And I also acknowledge that 
at the time Miss H curtailed her trip, the WHO had classified Covid-19 as a pandemic, rather 
than as an epidemic.
But Ive considered how the WHO defines a pandemic. It says its: an epidemic occurring 
worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international boundaries and usually affecting 
a large number of people.
While the WHO may respond to pandemics and epidemics differently, it seems to me that it 
classifies a pandemic as a type of epidemic  one which has travelled internationally and 
which affects large numbers of people. In my view, it appears that a pandemic cant become 
a pandemic unless its started out more locally as an epidemic. Theres no dispute that the 
management of Covid-19 was placed under the direction not just of the WHO, but across 
international governments across the world. So I think it was fair for Catlin to conclude that 
the exclusion should apply.
It would also seem illogical and unreasonable for me to conclude that Catlin wouldve 
intended to exclude cover for epidemics, but intended to cover claims caused by pandemics, 
which will inevitably cause much more wide-ranging disruption. It seems more likely to me 
that Catlin intended to exclude cover for both epidemics and pandemics. So I think it was fair 
for Catlin to draw a direct link between the original epidemic and the ultimate Covid-19 
pandemic when it considered Miss Hs claim. I do have a great deal of sympathy for Miss Hs position. Shes been left substantially out of 
pocket as a result of needing to cut short her trip and Im aware that shes now suffering 
some financial hardship. I do sympathise with her position. But as Ive set out above, I think 
it was fair for Catlin to conclude that the exclusion clause applied to Miss Hs claim. And this 
means Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Catlin to turn down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman