DRN-3947184
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc had a technical issue in which he couldnt operate his 
account for a number of months in the country he lives in.
What happened
Mr B lives overseas. He says Lloyds recently introduced a security measure which required 
sending a code to his mobile. He said on 17 February he received calls to his mobile, but he 
couldnt answer the calls and no text message with a security code was sent by them. Mr B 
spoke with a Lloyds call handler. He says they told him that they were having some 
problems with their security with accounts in the country he is residing in. Mr B says he is 
unable to make payments due to this issue and he cant check his bank account details. Mr 
B made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint and paid him £50 compensation and they said they had 
resolved his complaint. Mr B says his complaint is not resolved as the issue has not been 
fixed. He said he cant make payments out of his account, and he cant check his bank 
details. Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said he had been able to get a code in 
June 2022, but he felt extra compensation was fair for the time it took the system to work. He 
said if he couldnt submit his tax return on time in the country he resided in, then he could be 
fined. He said in view of this, he tried to access his Lloyds account and this time it gave him 
an access code to get into his account. 
During our investigators investigations, Lloyds had told him that they suggested to Mr B to 
download their mobile phone application (app) as a potential workaround, but he didnt want 
to do this.
Our investigator said if a business has shown to mitigate the impact in a way he felt fair and 
reasonable, it wouldnt be fair to say they have made an error. He said hed considered 
whether Lloyds had fairly and reasonably mitigated the impact of the issue of Mr B accessing 
his account. He said when Mr B called them to make the complaint, the call notes provided 
by Lloyds show they offered him a solution to download the app to access his account, but 
Mr B did not want to do this. He said while he respected his decision it would be likely if Mr B 
had done this then he would have been able to access his account, so he thought Lloyds did 
act fairly to mitigate the impact of the issues Mr B was having.
Our investigator said although Mr B uses the Lloyds account overseas, this is ultimately his 
decision. So he said that it is not reasonable to take factors into account such as charges for 
phone calls. He said our service does not award compensation based on potential impact 
such as Mr B mentioning the potential of late filling for his tax returns. He said in this 
circumstance, Lloyds acted fairly to give him a workaround solution and he thought £50 
compensation was fair. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Lloyds security system that 
they introduced was not working, even after they advised his complaint had been settled. He 
said this was the basis of his complaint to Lloyds following their letter of 19 February 2022 
and even Lloyds admit this to be a fact. He said he was not offered a workaround. He said 
he wanted £400 compensation plus interest. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr B that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Lloyds to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
I must explain to Mr B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Lloyds have investigated his 
complaint, such as deciding when they believe a complaint is resolved do not come under 
my powers to consider. 
Although Lloyds say they offered Mr B a potential workaround (and he disputes that they 
did), Im not persuaded that this would have guaranteed a solution to the problems Mr B was 
facing. I say this as the app would call the customer as part of their security measures. But 
when Lloyds tried to ring him as part of the current security procedures, this was 
unsuccessful due to the known issue which Lloyds recognise was affecting people which 
reside in the country he is living in. In addition to this, there may be reasons why Mr B would 
be unable to download their app, for example, the make and model of his phone may be 
incompatible with the app. So I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to choose a method of 
banking with Lloyds which they had made available to him which had been working until 
there was an issue. 
Mr B says that he first notified Lloyds of the issue in January 2022. But he was only aware 
that the issue was resolved when he was sent a code when he tried to obtain information for 
his tax return in June 2022. Lloyds system notes show that the incident was raised by them 
in February 2022, so there was potentially four to five months where this was an issue for Mr 
B. The system notes show an incident number for the issue was created, so Im not 
persuaded it would have been unreasonable for Lloyds to let Mr B know when the issue was 
resolved. 
Ive considered the amount of compensation that Lloyds have paid Mr B for what happened. 
They paid him £50 in February 2022, but the issues still continued for months after this. The 
issues affected Mr B completing simple transactions such as seeing his bank balance and 
making payments, so Im persuaded that he would be distressed by this over a number of 
months and Ive seen no evidence that Mr B was told when this was resolved. 
So Im not persuaded that £50 compensation is reasonable for what happened here. Mr B 
was inconvenienced by the technical issues through no fault of his own. And continued to be 
inconvenienced and distressed by the situation months after Lloyds had said they had 
resolved his complaint. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said regarding him wanting interest. But Ive not seen that the 
technical issue has affected any interest (if any) he would be due to receive on his account. 
So this is not something I would look to award him here as it would not be proportionate for 
me to do so. Ive also considered whether £400 compensation is fair for what happened 
here. But it may help if I explain to Mr B that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines. 
Im satisfied that an extra £200 compensation is fair and reasonable for what happened 
here, to total £250 compensation. The reason Im satisfied that this is fair is because Mr B 
was inconvenienced as he was unable to perform simple basic banking tasks, which also 
caused him distress. But the fix doesnt appear to have happened for a number of months. 
And Ive already explained why Im not persuaded a workaround for these issues would have 
guaranteed Mr B was able to perform these tasks. 
As our investigator has explained to Mr B, we are unable to compensate him for what could 
have happened. For example if he was unable to get the information which resulted in him 
sending his tax return in late. And Mr B did manage to get the security code to enable him to 
get this information. So Im satisfied that an extra £200, to total £250 compensation is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation to award Mr B to recognise the impact that the 
inconvenience and distress would have had on him here. So it follows I intend to ask Lloyds 
to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision, but Mr B asked me to pass on 
some comments to Lloyds. I will ask our investigator to forwards his comments onto Lloyds 
as a courtesy to Mr B, but he should be aware Lloyds are not obliged to respond to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr B an extra £200 compensation (to total £250 compensation) for 
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr B an extra £200 compensation (to 
total £250 compensation) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman