DRN-2373069
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs L took out in 2000. PPI was added to her 
account during a phone call that took place a little while after she took out her credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case. Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays says it sold Mrs L PPI during a phone call. But it told us it doesnt have a call 
recording or any sales scripts. Barclays says Mrs L wouldve benefitted from the policy in the 
event of a successful claim. And shed have known PPI was optional. 
As far as I can see from looking at the copy of the postal application Mrs L completed when 
she opened her Barclaycard account, PPI wasnt offered. I dont know what was discussed 
during the phone call that took place when PPI was sold to Mrs L. And I cant see how she 
consented to Barclays adding PPI to her Barclaycard account. 
Ive taken into account Barclays comments in response to the adjudicators view. I think that 
the purpose of the phone call may well have been to activate Mrs Ls card for use. And Mrs L 
might have been aware that having PPI was optional. 
But this make no difference to my decision that Mrs L was mis-sold PPI. Although Mrs L 
recalled that Barclays recommended PPI to her during the application (as Barclays says it 
wouldve done) Mrs L told us that she wasnt aware PPI had been added to her account. 
I dont feel I've seen enough information to show how Mrs L agreed to have PPI. 
So, I still think its fair to uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The card account is closed and the PPI has been cancelled already so: 
A. Barclays should find out how much Mrs L would have owed when her credit card 
account was closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs L owed when the 
account closed and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L wouldve 
owed when the account closed from when it closed until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI    
Mrs L paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs L wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D. Barclays should tell Mrs L what its done to work out A, B and C. 
E Barclays can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating 
to this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Mrs L.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Barclays Bank PLC should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman