DRN-3162491
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) trading as Agria Frskring 
(Agria Frskring) for not making clear to her the limits of cover when selling her pet 
insurance. She wants Agria Frskring to pay her claim. 
What happened
Mrs H has a number of dogs, which she insures against vet bills. 
In 2020, Mrs H received a new dog from a breeder. When the dog was transferred to her she 
received a period of free pet insurance with Agria Frskring. 
On 28 April 2020, an agent from Agria Frskring called Mrs H and offered to quote for her 
to extend her free insurance, into a paid-for product. It was the last day of Mrs Hs free 
cover.
Mrs H agreed to be quoted and gave some information in response to the agents questions. 
The agent explained to Mrs H that there were two different levels of cover, with either a 
maximum limit of £7,500 or £15,000 towards vet fees in any given year.
Mrs H said that she would want the £7500 limit, and the lower of the possible excesses 
offered. 
Mrs H explained that she would want breeding cover as she thought she may breed her dog 
in the future. The agent said this could be added as an extra, and told Mrs H that a 12 week 
exclusion applied from the start of cover. She asked if she would be able to cancel the cover 
and was advised that she could, at any time. 
The agent quoted Mrs H a price and she agreed to purchase the policy. She gave her details 
and the sale concluded. The agent then explained that he was transferring Mrs H to a 
recorded message which contained important information about the sale. She was told that if 
she had any questions about the recorded information to reconnect with an agent. 
On the same day, Agria Frskring issued policy documentation to Mrs H. This included a 
schedule of cover and the policy terms and conditions. The policy set out that a range of 
cover limits applied to different aspects of cover, and detailed a maximum benefit of £1000 
for breeding cover. 
The documentation set out that a cooling off period applied in which Mrs H could cancel her 
cover without charge and advised that she read the documentation thoroughly. Mrs H was 
told to contact Agria Frskring if she had any questions or concerns. 
Mrs H did not read the documentation and relied on her understanding from the call. 
Later in 2020, Mrs H bred her dog, and her dog gave birth by caesarean section in October 
2020. 
Mrs H submitted a claim for the vets bill for the birth, of around £890. This was settled by 
Agria Frskring. 
Mrs Hs dog unfortunately contracted an infection during the surgery and required additional 
treatment. 
Mrs H submitted additional claims for around £500 and around £3500.
Agria Frskring paid a partial settlement of the second claim, bringing the total paid out to 
£1000. Agria Frskring declined further cover for the infection as it considered this to be 
part of the breeding cover and so the maximum limit of £1000 applied. 
Mrs H complained. She felt that she had been mis-sold the policy because she understood 
the maximum limit of £7500 to apply to breeding cover as well. She also felt that the infection 
was not related to the breeding, but was instead a consequence of negligence during 
surgery. She therefore felt that it should be covered as any other infection would be, and it 
should not count within the lower limit. Mrs H sought to cancel her policy, but it appeared 
that she would have to pay her remaining premiums. Mrs H felt that this was unfair as the 
agent who sold the policy had advised that she could cancel at any time, and did not specify 
that, if she made a claim, she would not be able to cancel without continuing to pay the 
years premium. 
Agria Frskring sent Mrs H its final response. It acknowledged that during the sales call it 
was not made clear to Mrs H that a lower limit applied to breeding cover, but argued that the 
documentation sent to her made clear the differing limits. It therefore did not consider that 
the policy had been mis-sold.
Agria Frskring acknowledged that their agent had told Mrs H that she could cancel at any 
time and as a goodwill gesture cancelled the policy and did not charge Mrs H for the 
remaining premium. 
Mrs H was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He thought that Agria Frskring had 
provided sufficient information in the written documentation to make clear the levels of cover. 
He did not ask Agria Frskring to do anything further. 
Mrs H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She submitted that 
she had relied on the call with the agent and that there was opportunity to make clear that a 
different level of cover applied. She feels that she was misled and that this has caused her to 
incur substantial costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Hs upset in this matter. It sounds as though it was a very worrying time 
while her pet was receiving treatment, and that the infection caused her a lot of stress and 
expense.  
I have considered the documentation and have listened to the sales call for this policy and, 
whilst I understand Mrs Hs concerns, I agree with the view issued by my colleague. Listening to the call, Mrs H is clearly an experienced dog owner, and understood what she 
needed from the policy, both immediately and in the future. 
It appeared that Mrs H knew that breeding would not be included in standard cover and 
would need an additional product. She did not need to ask for clarifications from the agent 
for any terms used and she kept pace with the agent. The overall tone of the conversation 
was of two informed people discussing the policy at relative speed in order to get to the 
quote. 
Mrs H explained that her dog may be bred in July 2020, and she and the agent discussed 
the 12-week exclusion from policy inception. 
Mrs H and the agent also discussed that buying that policy at that time would keep 
continuous cover and would avoid any break in cover. 
Mrs H explained that she has insured her other animals previously and that she had not 
previously used Agria Frskring due to cost. 
The agent did not mention that a lower limit applied to breeding cover, and Mrs H did not ask 
about the levels of cover for different aspects of the policy. I accept that if all that was 
provided to Mrs H was the information in the call it would have been reasonable for Mrs H to 
think that the £7500 limit applied to all areas of cover. 
However, it was also clear that the call and discussion between the agent and Mrs H was not 
the full extent of the information to be supplied. The agent gave Mrs H the choice between 
hearing one section of a script in full or this being read later, and Mrs H elected not to hear it 
at that time. 
At the end of the call, the agent explained that he would transfer Mrs H to hear a recording of 
important information for around 90 seconds. It was therefore, in my opinion, clear that there 
was more relevant information for Mrs H to know, in addition to what had been said in the 
course of the call. 
I cannot tell if Mrs H listened to the additional recording, but the paperwork for the policy was 
then sent to her and she was asked to read it and raise any queries promptly. The 
documentation contained the details of limits of cover, and the explanation of what breeding 
cover entailed. It also made clear that Mrs H could cancel the policy within the cooling off 
period. 
I appreciate that Mrs H did not read this paperwork, but I do not think that was the fault of 
Agria Frskring. I think it was clear that contract included the information in the written 
documentation and not just the call. 
Consequently, whilst I sympathise with Mrs H, I do not think that she was mis-sold the policy 
and I do not uphold her complaint. 
Mrs H has also argued that the infection ought not to be treated as related to the breeding of 
her dog, but as related to the infection control measures of the veterinary surgery. If it were 
treated as an ordinary infection it would be subject to a higher limit. 
Again, I sympathise with Mrs H but do not agree that the infection should be considered 
separate from the breeding cover. The terms make clear that the cover includes 
complications related to birth, up to the limit of cover. Given that the infection immediately 
followed the caesarean section surgery and it appears to be accepted that it was contracted during that surgery, I think this is clearly a complication of birth, and subject to the breeding 
cover limits. 
Finally, I accept that Mrs H was told that she could cancel the policy at any time, and it was 
not explained that this would not be the case if she had made a claim. I note, however, that 
the policy documentation does make clear that if a claim has been settled within the 
insurance period then the consumer must pay the remaining premium for that period. 
For the same reasons as I have concluded that the sale included the written information 
above, I consider that Agria Frskring provided sufficient information to make clear the 
requirements of cancellation. I am pleased, however, that Agria Frskring cancelled Mrs 
Hs policy as a goodwill gesture and did not charge her anything further. 
As a result, whilst I understand that this will be disappointing for Mrs H, I do not uphold Mrs 
Hs complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint and do not ask 
Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) trading as Agria Frskring to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman