DRN-3505986
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that TSB Bank plc has held him liable for a payment he says he didnt 
authorise and that it later closed his account.
Background
Mr A had an account with TSB. In January 2022, a payment of £847 was made to a 
gambling website. Mr A said he didnt make the payment and so he complained to TSB. 
TSB investigated and was satisfied that it was likely that Mr A had authorised the payment 
and so it said it wouldnt pay him a refund. It also chose to close Mr As account. Mr A was 
unhappy with that and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator agreed with TSB that it was likely Mr A had 
authorised the payment. She also thought it was fair and reasonable for TSB to have closed 
his account.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come a to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic position is that TSB can hold Mr A liable for the disputed payment if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made it or authorised it. Ive carefully considered 
the evidence thats been provided by both sides and Im persuaded that its fair and 
reasonable for TSB to hold him liable for this payment.
The gambling website has shown that the payment was made into a betting account set up 
in Mr As name that had been operating since February 2021. The payment was made using 
a device that has been used to make historic payments in connection with this account that 
Mr A hasnt disputed. This device appears to have been used to access Mr As betting 
account since August 2021. Similarly, the payment was made via an IP address that had 
been used to make undisputed payments in the past. Furthermore, all the deposits paid into 
this betting account seem to have been made using the same card. 
Mr A was quite clear that he lived alone and nobody else couldve had access to his card or 
his phone. In the circumstances, its extremely unlikely that a third party couldve been 
responsible for making this payment. Its also not clear what motivation a fraudster couldve 
had for using Mr As account to make a gambling payment. Its standard practice with online 
payments for gambling that any winnings must be returned to the card that made the original 
deposit. For these reasons, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for TSB to hold him 
liable for the payment. 
In addition to declining Mr As complaint, TSB also closed his account. As a general rule, a 
bank has the commercial discretion to decide whether or not it wants to continue offering an 
account to an individual customer so long as it gives a notice period that allows that 
customer to make arrangements to use a different account for everyday banking purposes. 
In this instance, TSB didnt give Mr A any notice before closing his account. The terms and 
conditions of his account do allow it to do this in certain circumstance. In this instance, Mr A 
told TSB that he hadnt authorised the payment out of his account, but the evidence shows 
that its likely that he did authorise it. For that reason, Im satisfied that the terms and 
conditions do allow TSB to close the account without notice. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman