DRN-3420250
The complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
packaged bank account, which he took out on 16 November 2010.
Mr G says that he was desperate to obtain an overdraft of £1,800 and was told that taking 
out a fee-paying Advance account was his only way of obtaining such an overdraft. Mr G 
says that he didnt want any of the benefits of the account and says that the account was 
forced on to him.
Mr G has also complained that he has tried to arrange a repayment plan with HSBC to 
reduce the overdrawn balance on his account and says that HSBC has ignored him. Mr G 
says that HSBC did eventually look into this, but says HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. 
This matter will be looked into as a separate complaint, so I wont address it within this 
decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Advance 
account had been mis-sold.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having taken everything into consideration, Im unable to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I will explain why.
Mr G says that he was sold the Advance account over the phone and says that he was told 
that the only way he could secure the £1,800 overdraft was by taking out an Advance 
account. However, HSBC has provided evidence to show that Mr G applied for the account 
online, and not over the phone as he recalls. HSBC has also confirmed that when Mr G 
applied for the account, Mr G applied for and was granted an agreed overdraft limit of 
£1,250. I note that Mr Gs overdraft limit increased to £1,800 around two years later.
Bearing in mind that the only evidence specific to this case that suggests the account mayve 
been mis-sold is essentially Mr Gs recollections, and given that they dont match the 
evidence that is available, Im not able to conclude that its likely that HSBC did mis-lead Mr 
G into thinking that the Advance account was the only option available to him, or indeed that 
he had to have it to obtain a £1,800 overdraft. 
On the contrary, in the circumstances, I think its more likely that Mr G went to HSBCs 
website and applied for the Advance account as he was attracted to the features it provided. 
For example, at the time, one of the benefits of the account was that it included a lower rate 
of overdraft interest compared to what was charged on overdrafts on a standard current 
account.
As Mr G applied for the account himself online, I think that it was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means that HSBC was not required to check if the account and the associated 
benefits were right for Mr G. In other words, it was up to Mr G to decide this for himself.
To help him do this, HSBC was required to give Mr G important information about the 
account so that he could decide whether the account was worth taking out.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sale took place, its not clear what information Mr G 
saw when he applied for the account. However, the fact he applied for a fee-paying account, 
rather than a standard fee-free account, makes me think Mr G mustve seen some 
information online about the account that made him apply for it in the first place.
I accept its possible that Mr G may not have been presented with all of the information about 
the Advance account benefits when he applied for it. But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr G wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had he been given even more 
information about it. 
For example, Mr G says that he suffers from medical conditions and the travel insurance 
included with the Advance account required account holders to declare any pre-existing 
medical conditions to the travel insurer to check whether they would be covered. Its not 
clear to me whether this requirement was made clear to Mr G when he applied for the 
account. However, HSBC has provided evidence to suggest that Mr G had become aware of 
the need to check with the travel insurer about medical conditions by 12 October 2012, as it 
has evidence that Mr G contacted the Advance travel insurer to discuss his medical 
conditions at this time. And despite this, Mr G chose to continue with the Advance account 
for many more years. 
So I think its the case that Mr G was either made aware of this requirement at the time of 
the sale, or alternatively if it had not been made sufficiently clear, I dont think finding out 
about this requirement wouldve changed his decision to take out the account.
I note that Mr G has said he didnt need the benefits of the account  for example he says he 
already had breakdown cover. However, as outlined above, as the sale took place online, it 
was up to him to decide whether it was worth having and whether to cancel existing cover in 
favour of the Advance account cover. 
As such, based on what I have seen, Im unable to conclude that the Advance account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, based on the evidence I have been provided with I 
dont think that Mr Gs Advance account was mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman