DRN-3632689
The complaint
Mr A complains One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) unfairly declined his claim on his 
home emergency insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of One Insurance involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to One Insurance.
What happened
On 13 November 2021 Mr A made a claim on his home emergency policy when his boiler 
broke down and he had no heating.
When he contacted One Insurance its agent asked him to confirm the boiler had been 
serviced within the last 12 months, as this was a requirement of the cover. Mr A confirmed it 
had been completed, but he was unable to give the specific date as he was not sure where 
the paperwork was.
The One Insurance agent said Mr A would have to call back once he had found the 
paperwork with the specific date as it could not progress his claim without this.
Mr A called One Insurance back on 21 November 2021 to make the claim on his policy and 
give the exact boiler service date. During this call One Insurances agent rejected his claim 
because he had not notified the fault within 24 hours of finding it. Mr A explained he had 
already reported the fault on 13 November 2021 which was the day it happened and he had 
been away from his home since that date until now. He said he was phoning back with the 
service date as requested. 
As One Insurance would not accept his claim, Mr A organised for a gas engineer to repair 
the boiler. 
After looking into Mr As complaint, One Insurance confirmed it had rejected his claim 
because he left it more than 24 hours after noticing the incident and because the boiler had 
not been serviced within the last year.
Mr A said this was not correct and so he brought the complaint to our service. He wants One 
Insurance to refund the costs he paid for his boiler repairing, refund his policy costs and pay 
compensation for leaving him with no heating.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. They looked into the complaint and agreed 
that One Insurance had been fair in rejecting Mr As claim as it could not be regarded as an 
emergency under the terms of his policy. However, they said One Insurance should have 
been clear during Mr As first call that his claim did not fall into the definition of an emergency 
and this delayed him arranging for his boiler to be repaired. They recommended 
One Insurance pay Mr A £100 for the poor level of customer service he received.
As One Insurance is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim
A home emergency policy is designed to provide an emergency response to sudden and 
unforeseen emergency situations that happen. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As home emergency policy. It says;
Definition:
A home emergency is considered an event that poses a threat to life or property and 
ongoing damage is prevented as a temporary measure; this does not cover permanent 
fixes.
It goes on to say; To use this product, you MUST call us within 24 hours of discovering the 
emergency.
One Insurance said the reasons it declined Mr As claim was because as he did not call 
within 24 hours after noticing the fault, this was a pre-existing issue. And it was excluded due 
to the boiler not being annually serviced as proof of service was never provided. 
I saw that Mr A did call One Insurance on 13 November 2021 when his heating stopped 
working and then left it a week before calling back to confirm the required details to progress 
his claim. 
Mr A said he was not told by One Insurance he needed to call back straight away with the 
details of his boiler service. I agree he was not specifically told this but as he was making a 
claim on a home emergency policy, I dont think he needed to be told this.
I have considered Mr As explanation that he was away from his home for a week after he 
made the first claim call, so he did not call One Insurance back with the details of his boiler 
service until his return on 21 November 2021. 
As Mr A was able to leave the issue with the heating, to go away for a week, I do not think 
this issue can be considered as a home emergency, as is defined in the policy. 
Mr A wants One Insurance to pay for the cost he incurred to repair the fault to his boiler.
Under the terms of the cover it says;
What is included?
Boilers  emergency repairs after an emergency involving your home that leads to the main 
source of heating failing.
As the cover only provides emergency repairs after an emergency. I do not agree that 
One Insurance are required to pay Mr A the costs to repair the fault found by his own 
engineer. 
I think that the reasons One Insurance declined Mr As claim were valid and the exclusion 
fair under the terms of the policy. 
Therefore. I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
Customer serviceWhen the One Insurance agent rejected Mr As claim on 21 November 2021, Mr A asked for 
this to be escalated to a manager. He was not called back as agreed and so he made 
another call on 23 November 2021. This call was also not returned as agreed. On 29 
November 2021, through the One Insurance on-line chat service, Mr A was told his 
complaint would be reviewed within eight weeks.
Although I think One Insurance had valid reasons to decline Mr As claim, the reasons it 
gave were not fully explained. 
During the two claim calls Mr A made to One Insurance in November 2021, it did not 
mention the claim would not be covered as it did not meet the home emergency definition as 
per the terms and conditions of the policy. Neither was this mentioned in its written response 
to Mr A. 
I feel One Insurance should have been clearer with Mr A, when he made his claim calls in 
November 2021, that his claim would not be covered as a home emergency even if he had 
provided the evidence of his boiler service. 
I think if One Insurance had clarified this, Mr A would have been clear that his claim would 
not be covered under the terms of the policy as it did not meet the definition of a home 
emergency. 
Therefore I uphold this part of Mr As complaint. I think One Insurance should pay Mr A £100 
for the inconvenience caused by the lack of clarity provided to him during his initial claims 
calls and its failure to return his calls as agreed.
Refund of policy
In the terms and conditions of the policy it says;
You can cancel this policy within 14 days of taking it out; where no claims have been made 
a full refund will be given. No refund of premium will be given after this period.
Under the terms of Mr As policy he is not eligible for refund of his premiums and therefore I 
do not uphold this part of Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the level of customer 
service he received during his claim calls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman