DRN-4417393
The complaint
Mrs T complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who provided 
home insurance asked her to re-pay part of her cash settlement as Lloyds had identified it 
had made a mistake and had paid too much. Mrs T had representation for the complaint, but 
for ease and simplicity Ill only refer to Mrs T.
What happened
When Mrs T made a claim for her damaged TV, Lloyds offered her a cash settlement based 
upon the information supplied by her. Mrs T was offered £2,089, however, when Lloyds 
came to make the payment its systems would only allow a payment of £2,000 which was the 
limit on the policy. This error was explained to Mrs T promptly, but as she was unhappy she 
raised a complaint.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated, Lloyds realised it had made a significant error 
as it had paid a settlement based upon an 85 model as opposed a 55 model. Lloyds said if 
it had calculated the settlement correctly it wouldve offered a cash settlement of £719 less 
the £100 policy excess (so £619). So, Lloyds overpaid by £1,380.
Lloyds has asked Mrs T to repay this overpayment in instalments but has paid £100 goodwill 
for the poor service provided. Mrs T is unhappy as she said shes already spent the 
settlement money - £999 on a replacement TV and the rest has gone on household bills. Mrs 
T wants Lloyds to honour their original offer.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Mrs T wouldve know the 
settlement was excessive and couldve questioned it. She thought it was fair for Lloyds to 
only pay what it wouldve cost to provide the replacement TV, so thought it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to recover the overpayment. She also thought £100 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. Mrs T disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 19 October 2023. I said:
The purpose of an insurance policy is to indemnify a policyholder from financial loss or 
damage. In other words, Lloyds should put Mrs T back in the position she was in before the 
damage occurred to the TV. Therefore, I dont think its fair if Mrs T benefits from a genuine 
error made by Lloyds. I also dont think Lloyds have been reasonable in the settlement it is 
expecting to pay, so I do partially uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Under the policy, Mrs T was entitled to receive a new TV of a similar quality to her old TV. 
Lloyds has explained, it couldve provided a replacement TV for £719, so if it had cash 
settled at that level it wouldve paid Mr T £619 to take account of the £100 policy excess. It 
made Mrs T aware of the error as soon as it became aware of it.
However, I dont think this is relevant, as Lloyds didnt replace the TV. Lloyds chose to pay a 
cash settlement, although because of its error this was higher than it shouldve been 
(£2,000). Although Lloyds paid this higher value, I think Mrs T shouldve realised it was 
excessive given shed bought a similar TV for £849 only a few months earlier. So, I dont 
think it should come as a surprise to Mrs T that Lloyds has said it made an error.
On receiving the settlement payment, Mrs T bought a new TV to replace the new one. It was 
a slightly newer model, but the intention was to buy something similar, and she said she paid 
£999 for it. Buying the TV has indemnified Mrs T, so I think it would be reasonable for Lloyds 
to pay Mrs T what it cost her for the TV, less the policy excess (i.e., £999 less £100, so 
£899).
Lloyds has already paid Mrs T £2,000, which is more than what I think Lloyds should 
reasonably have paid. I think its fair for Lloyds to re-coup the overpayment. Therefore, I 
intend for Lloyds to be allowed to re-coup £1,101 from Mrs T in a minimum of 12 equal 
monthly instalments (i.e., £2,000 less £899). Mrs T must provide a receipt of the new TV to 
Lloyds to validate this calculation. If she doesnt within 28 days of this decision, Lloyds can 
re-calculate these payments to reflect what it wouldve cost Lloyds to provide a replacement 
TV (less £100 excess).
I appreciate Mrs T has said the remaining money has been spent on bills, but I think Mrs T 
shouldve expected to pay her own bills anyway. I dont think its fair she benefits from a 
genuine error. I think the £100 compensation paid for the distress and inconvenience caused 
is fair, as I think Mrs T was able to get a replacement TV promptly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and clarified the events from its perspective. Lloyds 
explained it provided a settlement in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
However, it felt it couldve handled the claim slightly better and communicated more clearly 
with Mrs T, so Lloyds have decided to accept my decision so the complaint can be closed 
promptly for Mrs T. 
Mrs T accepted my provisional decision, and she didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I will leave the decision as it is.
My final decision
My final decision is I part uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds) to:
Re-coup £1,101 from Mrs T in a minimum of 12 equal monthly instalments. Mrs T 
must provide a receipt of the new TV to Lloyds to validate this calculation. If she 
doesnt within 28 days of this decision, Lloyds can re-calculate these payments to 
reflect what it wouldve cost it to provide a replacement TV itself (less the excess).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Pete AverillOmbudsman