DRN-2259769
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the handling of a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy 
with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his policy in 30 November 2019, after his phone was damaged. 
Mr S sent the phone in for repair. However, the phone was apparently beyond repair, so 
Assurant sent a replacement phone to Mr S on 11 December 2019. Mr S contacted Assurant 
the same day to say the address the phone had been sent to was incorrect but the delivery 
went ahead. The address was apparently a property that Mr S lets out.
Assurant said it had spoken to the tenants of the delivery address who had said Mr S had 
collected the phone from them. Mr S was unhappy as he said he was being accused of 
having the phone and he denies collecting it. However, I understand Mr S later confirmed 
that his brother had collected the phone on 13 December 2019 from the property and, as he 
and his brother look alike, the tenants may have mistaken him for his brother. Mr S returned 
that phone to Assurant. 
Assurant sent another phone on 13 December 2019 but Mr S says this didnt work properly 
and he was told by the manufacturer, it was not worth repairing. Assurant agreed to do a 
doorstep exchange for a another (third) replacement, which I understand took place in mid- 
February 2020. However, Mr S says the third phone doesnt hold charge for long. He 
complained again. Assurant says the second phone was returned to it with damage to the 
display, which Mr S denies. 
Mr S is very unhappy with the way the claim has been handled. He says Assurant accused 
him of being a thief in the calls that took place on 19 and 20 December 2019, regarding the 
first phone that was wrongly delivered. And Assurant has still not settled his claim properly, 
as he is still with a faulty phone. Mr S wants a cash settlement, so he can go and buy his 
own replacement phone and compensation, including for the time and cost involved in 
having to go to the manufacturers store.
Assurant accepts the calls were not handled well; it apologised and said it will provide 
feedback to the agent that deal with the calls. It also offered £25 compensation for sending 
the phone to the wrong address. Assurant agreed to either provide the cost of a new battery 
or make a cash settlement of £280 instead of providing another replacement phone but has 
said it would need the other phone returned, so it can assess the damage (and ensure no 
other damage has been done to it). 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought the settlement proposals made 
by Assurant were fair and reasonable. However, he said that the compensation should be 
increased to £100.
Mr S does not accept the investigators assessment. He has made a number of points, which 
Ive summarised below: 
Assurant says the previous phone was returned to it damaged but has not provided 
any proof of this by way of a photograph of the alleged damage. He took 
photographs before the phone was collected from him, which show it intact.
Assurant has sent him two phones that are not fit for purpose and now wants to 
examine the third phone prior to making a cash payment. This is unreasonable. He 
should not be without his phone for any time at all, due to its errors. 
Previously he was without a phone for nine days before receiving a replacement that 
didnt work.
He has sent a screenshot, which clearly shows that the battery health has 
deteriorated significantly, so what does Assurant hope to gain from the inspection?
Assurant clearly doesnt quality check the phones before sending them out. 
The compensation and payment offered is not enough to reflect the trouble caused to 
him. 
Mr S says he wants £300 cash for the phone, together with £200 as compensation for the 
slander of his name (in saying one of the phones was returned damaged), and for wasting 
his time. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration at the prospect of being without a phone again after two 
phones have been provided which are not of an acceptable standard. However, this is the 
normal claims process and is not inherently unfair. It is not unreasonable for Assurant to 
want to receive the phone back first and satisfy itself it is in the same condition as it was sent 
to Mr S. 
However, I would expect Assurant to be reasonable when assessing the condition and allow 
for normal wear and tear. I would also expect any inspection and payment to Mr S to be 
completed as soon as possible.
In addition, I note that the only fault with the phone appears to be the battery and Assurant 
has also offered to pay the cost of a new battery, which would resolve the issue without the 
need for Mr S to be without his phone for any period of time.
I am not therefore persuaded that Assurants proposals to progress the claim are 
unreasonable. It is up to Mr S now to decide if he wants to replace the battery, or receive a 
replacement phone, or cash in lieu (in which case hell have to arrange to return his phone 
first). Assurant has offered £280 cash in lieu. Mr S has asked for £300. Ive seen no 
convincing evidence that 3280 is not sufficient to replace the phone with a similar model and 
so do not agree it needs to pay more than £280, if that is the option Mr S wants to take. I do 
agree, however, that Assurant should reimburse any postage costs incurred by Mr S in 
returning the phone. 
Mr S has provided photos of the phone which Assurant apparently said was damaged on 
return to it. The photos show the screen is apparently in tact but Assurant says the liquid 
crystal display was damaged. It is impossible to tell from these photos if this is the case. I do 
not however consider that I need to determine whether there is damage (and whether this 
occurred while Mr S had it) in order to fairly determine this complaint. I say this because, while this is one of the reasons that Assurant is insisting on the current 
phone being returned to it before cash settlement can be made, it has not otherwise caused 
any prejudice to Mr S. Assurants normal claims process would be for a phone to be returned 
first and it is simply adhering to this. It previously agreed to deviate from this for a doorstep 
exchange but has chosen not to on this occasion and for the reasons given above, I do not 
think this is unreasonable. 
 
I do, however, agree with the investigator that some additional compensation is warranted, 
over and above settlement of the claim. Mr S has received two faulty phones and the calls 
he made to discuss the case could have been handled better than they were. Mr S also had 
to go to the manufacturers store to see if the first replacement phone could be repaired. 
I agree with the investigator that £100 is appropriate. Mr S says he should receive more but 
this is in line with awards made in similar cases. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and make the following 
order:  
1. Upon receipt of the previous phone from Mr S and its satisfaction it was returned in 
the same general condition as it was sent to him, Assurant must do the following: 
provide the cash sum required to purchase a new phone battery; or 
provide a further replacement phone; or 
pay £280 cash in lieu of a further replacement, whichever Mr S prefers; and 
2. reimburse any postage fees paid by Mr S in returning the phone; and 
3. pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the claim. 
Mr S has indicated that he might pursue legal action against Assurant in relation to this 
claim. For the avoidance of doubt, if Mr S rejects my decision his existing legal rights against 
Assurant, if any, are unaffected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman