DRN-3110246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) for declining their home insurance 
claim and voiding their policy. They want QIC to reinstate their policy, settle their claim and 
reimburse them for a carpet which QIC had removed. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs M searched for home insurance through a comparison site. They 
completed information and answers, and selected a policy via company P. That policy was 
underwritten by QIC.
One of the questions asked of Mr and Mrs M was Have you or anyone living in the property 
ever been convicted of, or is awaiting trial for, any crime excluding motor offences.
Mr and Mrs M answered no. 
Their application was approved, and their insurance started in mid-April 2019. 
In March 2020, QIC sent renewal information to Mr and Mrs M, asking them to check that 
their information remained accurate and up to date. They were asked to confirm whether 
they agreed with statements, including:
None of the occupants have been convicted or charged with any offence other than a 
motoring offence. 
Mr and Mrs M did not dispute the comment and their policy was renewed. 
In late February 2021, Mr and Mrs M suffered a flood at their home. 
They logged a claim with QIC and a team instructed by QIC attended their home the 
following day. With the agreement of Mr and Mrs M, the team cut out and removed a section 
of carpet which was waterlogged. They also placed dehumidifiers to help dry out the 
property. 
QIC advised that a surveyor would come to Mr and Mrs Ms home later that day, and the 
team would return to continue work the following day. 
Whilst speaking with QIC, Mrs M disclosed that Mr M had been convicted of an offence 
some years earlier, and that he had served a custodial sentence. The offence he was 
convicted of was Causing Death by Dangerous Driving. 
QIC had not previously known about the offence and considered what effect this disclosure 
would have on cover. QIC halted works at Mr and Mrs Ms home.
QIC wrote to Mr and Mrs M indicating that, due to the non-disclosure, it intended to decline 
the claim and void the policy from the start. It gave them an opportunity to provide 
information in response. 
QIC then proceeded to void the policy from the start. It considered that the misrepresentation 
was not deliberate but was reckless, and sent a full refund of the premiums to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M complained. They felt that the question asked of them was ambiguous and 
that they had not answered incorrectly. They believed that the offence was a motoring 
offence and did not need to be disclosed. 
QIC sent its final response to their complaint in March 2021. It maintained the decision to 
void the policy and to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy so contacted us.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and did not recommend upholding the complaint. 
She considered that the question asked was clear and that most people would understand 
that causing death by dangerous driving was a conviction which needed to be disclosed. 
She explained the regulations which govern what happens when a consumer misrepresents, 
or doesnt disclose, something relevant to an insurer and she explained that under the 
relevant law, QIC had acted properly. 
Mr and Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment at finding that their policy has been voided, and 
I can appreciate their frustration, given that there is no suggestion that they intended to 
deceive the insurer, but I agree with my colleagues view. 
I have looked at the questions asked by QIC, and the information given in response, and I 
agree that the questions asked at policy application and renewal are sufficiently clear of what 
information is being requested. It is also clear from the information provided by QIC that 
applicants / consumers must take care to provide full complete information, and that failure 
to do so may affect the validity of cover. 
Causing death by dangerous driving is a serious offence, and in this case resulted in a 
custodial sentence. This type of offence is very different from offences described as 
motoring offences, such as speeding resulting in a fixed penalty, and I agree that a 
reasonable person would expect to disclose this in response to the questions asked. My 
colleague discussed how, if Mr and Mrs M were unsure of whether the conviction needed to 
be disclosed, they could seek advice, including from QIC. They did not do so. 
Consequently, I do not think Mr and Mss M took enough care to provide full complete 
information to QIC in relation to Mr Ms conviction. 
Where relevant information is not provided to the insurer, and the insurer subsequently 
learns of it, the insurer has to demonstrate what it would have done differently if it had known 
the full information. Here, QIC has demonstrated that it would not have offered cover if the 
answers provided had been accurately given. 
Based on this, and considering the relevant law as set out by my colleague, I agree with her 
conclusion that QIC acted in line with the relevant law, and fairly in the circumstances.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M feel that QICs decision to void the policy was unfair and that 
they were left in a worse position afterwards. They think that QIC ought to have carried out 
more checks at the outset of cover if it considered this type of offence relevant, and Mr and 
Mrs M could then have sought insurance elsewhere. They also feel that they are in a worse 
position because agents of QIC cut away a portion of the waterlogged carpet before the 
decision was made to halt the claim. 
I appreciate that view, but do not agree. Insurers must ask clear questions of applicants / 
consumers, but once they have done so they are entitled to rely on the information provided 
to them. It is incumbent on consumers to provide full information, and to seek advice if they 
are unclear. 
In respect of the carpet, I understand that this was removed with the agreement of Mr M and 
Mrs M, and that they agreed on the basis that they expected a replacement to be provided. I 
can appreciate that this is frustrating, but I cannot say that QIC acted wrongly in either 
starting to process the claim, and removing a waterlogged piece of carpet, or in halting the 
claim when it became aware of the full information and decided to void the policy. 
Overall, whilst I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs M, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
understand that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M but I hope it makes clear my 
reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and do not ask 
QIC Europe Ltd to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman