DRN-2896494
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc failed to tell her about the eligibility requirements 
for the overdraft on her student account.
What happened
In August 2017 Miss A opened a student account with Santander. She initially said this 
happened in branch, but since it is clear that the account was opened online, she believes 
this must have been a conversation she had in a branch before she opened the account. 
She complains that the person she spoke to failed to tell her that two of the conditions for 
having the account, and for qualifying for the overdraft facility, was that she had to use it as 
her main current account, and she had to pay at least £500 into the account each academic 
term. 
Miss A never used the account as her main account, and she failed to pay £500 into the 
account during her second term. The result was that her overdraft facility was cancelled in 
June 2018, and the bank called in the overdraft balance, which was over £1,000. She could 
not afford it, failed to agree an arrangement to pay, and ended up making token payments. 
The account was closed and the debt was defaulted and sent to collections.
In 2019 Miss A complained to Santander about this, as she was worried about the impact on 
her credit file. She also complained that she had not been told about the debt for months. 
Santander said it had done nothing wrong, and that the debt was being reported accurately. 
It said the account terms and conditions had been made clear to Miss A when she had 
opened the account online.
In 2020 Miss A brought this complaint to our service, and although she did not complain 
within our time limits, Santander still consented to our service considering it. Miss A 
explained that although she had seen the conditions when she had opened the account 
online, she thought that they did not apply to her and that she could rely on what she had 
been told in branch.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said the terms and conditions were clear, 
and would have superseded whatever she was told in branch. He noted that there was no 
evidence of a discussion in the branch. After opening the account, Santander had sent her a 
welcome pack which had also set out the requirements for using the account. He did not 
agree that Santander had misadvised her, or that it had acted unreasonably in closing her 
account, or that it had not accurately reported the debt to the credit reference agencies.
Miss A did not accept that opinion. She insisted that Santander had actually upheld her 
complaint and paid her compensation, although she could not find the letter. She said if she 
had been told about the debt sooner, she could have paid it all back. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The compensation Miss A was paid by Santander was in relation to this account, but it was 
for an entirely different issue. The details of that complaint, and the reason it was upheld, 
were set out in a letter dated 10 July 2018. That letter specifically said that there was nothing 
wrong with anything that had happened in connection with the opening of the account, and 
that Santander had been entitled to withdraw the overdraft facility and to demand repayment 
of the full balance. This letter does not support Miss As position in respect of this complaint.
Although there is no evidence (other than what Miss A has told us) about the conversation in 
the branch, I cannot rule out the possibility that it happened, and so I accept that it did. I also 
accept that Miss A was not told in that conversation about the requirements for using the 
account. However, that does not mean that the branch staff member was wrong not to 
mention them. That information might not have been relevant to the questions Miss A was 
asking, and the staff member would have known that the terms and conditions for the 
account would be displayed online when Miss A applied for the account, and would be 
repeated in the welcome pack. So it may not have seemed necessary to mention them at the 
time.
Even if I took a different view about that, and if I decided that the branch staff member 
should have told Miss A about the requirements, it does not follow that Santander failed to 
tell Miss A about them before she opened the account. The requirements were set out 
clearly in the key facts document when she opened the account, and in the welcome pack, 
and if Miss A thought they did not apply to her then I am afraid that I cannot agree that this 
was a reasonable thing to infer. I think that the written terms superseded anything she had 
been told (or not told) in an earlier conversation. At the very least, the difference between the 
written terms and Miss As expectations should have alerted her to the possibility that she 
had not been told everything she needed to know, and that she should ask more questions 
before proceeding to open an account with unexpected obligations attached to it.
I have to say that I am a little sceptical that Miss A really did not know that she had to pay 
£500 into the account each term. I say that for two reasons: firstly, as I said in the previous 
paragraph, she was told about that in writing when she opened the account. Secondly, she 
paid over £500 into the account in the first week that she had it. She may have forgotten 
about it by the following term, and I think that is probably what really happened. But I might 
be wrong about that, and in case I am, I will assume for the purposes of the following 
paragraphs that Miss A was genuinely unaware of this requirement all along.
I have seen a list of all the transactions on the account. It is clear that Miss A was not using it 
as her main account, and that she did not pay very much money into the account after the 
first week. After she had had the account for one month, when the account balance was just 
under £200, she paid more than £1,200 to Apple. This purchase left the account overdrawn 
by over £1,000. She paid no more money into the account, and she stopped using the 
account after September 2017. Perhaps she forgot about her overdraft balance over time, 
but I cannot accept that she never knew she had it. The overdraft balance consisted entirely 
of purchases she had made (mainly that one large purchase), and she must have known at 
the time that she had not paid enough money into the account to cover that purchase, and 
that she was using the overdraft facility.
Having read the terms and conditions and the key facts document, I am satisfied that 
Santander was entitled to withdraw the overdraft facility, since Miss A had not complied with 
the necessary requirements. It did this in June 2018, so it had allowed her plenty of time to 
pay more money into the account. Miss A describes this as a failure to inform her about the debt, but I dont think that is the true position because, as Ive said, she must have known 
she was using her overdraft when she made a purchase which exceeded all of the payments 
she had previously made into the account. It does not seem likely to me that she would have 
paid off that overdraft balance all at once if she had been reminded of it in, say, October 
2017.
Since Miss A did not repay the overdraft when it was called in, and had to make token 
payments, this is what Santander would have been obliged to report to the credit reference 
agencies. Santander has a duty to report accurate information, and I can see no reason why 
it should amend what it has reported in respect of this debt.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman