DRN-2169695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of their Buildings Insurance
claim.
All references to Allianz also include their agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full
timeline or list every point that has been made. Events prior to February 2019 have already
been addressed in another complaint. So any reference to events before this time, is purely
contextual for the purposes of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their policy in January 2018 for subsidence at their property.
Allianz believed escape of water to be the source of the issues that were causing the
subsidence and repairs to the drain were carried out in June 2018, meaning the claim then
progressed to addressing repairing the damage caused by the subsidence.
A contractor was appointed, and they produced a schedule of the work needed for the
repairs in June 2018. Allianz had some queries with the proposed work, so they went back to
clarify them with the contractor. The scope of works was then agreed, but Mr and Mrs D
flagged to Allianz that further damage had developed and provided photographs of this for
Allianz to consider.
Allianz felt they were still ready to proceed with the repairs and said if when on site, the
contractors felt amendments needed to be made, they could come back to Allianz to review
and amend the schedule. The repairs were scheduled to begin in December 2018, but the
when the contractors attended, they didnt start work and submitted a new schedule of work
needed to Allianz.
What happened after February 2019
Allianzs contractor submitted a further report on the scope of work required, but they still
couldnt agree on the level of work required. Because of this it was agreed a second opinion
would be sought from an alternative contractor and in the meantime the additional damage
would be monitored.
Mr and Mrs D commissioned an independent survey in July 2019. They told Allianz the
survey had identified the drains were still leaking and provided a copy of the report to Allianz.
Allianz sent the original contractor who repaired the drains to verify this, they said further
investigation was required  so Allianz had the drains inspected again in November 2019 by
another contractor. Allianz said damage had been found along a run that been surveyed
originally by their contractor.
Mr and Mrs D raised another complaint in November 2019, they remained unhappy with the
lack of progress. Allianz acknowledged there had been further delays and offered
Mr and Mrs D £350 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept their offer and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. She said there had
been delays in progressing their claim, but she felt Allianzs offer of compensation was fair
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D requested the complaint be put to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 16 July 2020. In my provisional findings I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of detailed points. I want to assure them Ive considered
all of them, but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our
service and my role in it.
This service has already considered a complaint about delays to Mr and Mrs Ds claim up
until Allianzs first final response letter in February 2019 so I wont repeat these findings
here. My decision focuses on events that took place after this, up to Allianzs second final
response in December 2019. However I will refer back to earlier in the timeline of events
where I feel its necessary for the purposes of this decision.
Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz accepted there were delays due to further dispute about the scope of work needed at
Mr and Mrs Ds property. But I think the key issue is around the initial work completed to the
drains in April 2018. Mr and Mrs D told Allianz that further damage had appeared as early as
October 2018. Further dispute of the scope of work occurred after this with the contractor
making significant additions in early 2019 and this had meant work didnt start in
December 2018.  Following this there continued to be a dispute over the scope of the works.
Mr and Mrs D hired their own engineer to inspect the drains in July 2019  and made Allianz
aware of their findings  the damage was being caused by escape of water and the repairs
carried out on the drains originally were faulty. Allianz sent the original drainage contractor to
go back and inspect the drains. They reported there were no faults with the work they carried
out but recommended a further opinion from another independent engineer. I think in the
circumstances its reasonable Allianz wanted to verify what Mr and Mrs Ds engineer said but
this didnt happen until November 2019. So I think they should have got an independent
opinion earlier.
Ive looked at the report provided by the independent engineer, I cant see there is anything
that suggests the work carried out initially was faulty. But the report did say they identified a
joint displacement at the base of a Gully pot which could be allowing the escape of water.
Allianz have also confirmed this was found along a run surveyed by the drainage contractors
who originally repaired the drain.
So I think its likely this was missed initially in April 2018. Further subsidence issues had
begun to present themselves around October 2018 when Mr and Mrs D reported this to
Allianz and when contractors returned to carry out repairs in December 2018 the scope of
works changed significantly. I think its likely this would have continued to change as the full
extent of the escape of water hadnt been identified and repaired. Because of this I think
avoidable delays have been caused since then and therefore Allianz have done something
wrong and must put things right.Putting things right
Repairs to Mr and Mrs Ds drains were initially carried out in April 2018, and at the time of
Allianz issuing their final response in December 2019, they still hadnt been repaired  and a
scope of works still hadnt been agreed. Considering the circumstances, I think its fair that
Allianz pay Mr and Mrs D £750 compensation for the delays caused as this fairly represents
the inconvenience theyve been caused.
Mr and Mrs D had an independent survey carried out on the drains due to concerns about
the ongoing dispute about the additional damage and scope of works. I think its reasonable
that Allianz refund Mr and Mrs D for any costs incurred for this.
Mr and Mrs D agreed with my findings.
Allianz said they would like to provide further comments in response to some of my findings. 
But they havent done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and as no further comments have been provided, my 
decision and reasoning remain the same as I explained in my provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. To put things right I direct 
Allianz Insurance Plc to:
- Pay Mr and Mrs D £750 compensation
- Refund Mr and Mrs D any costs incurred for obtaining the independent report 
- Simple interest of 8% should be calculated from the date Mr and Mrs D paid for the
report to the date of settlement1 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
1 If Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.  