DRN-3375873
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (Kensington) treated her 
unfairly when it declined her request to extend the term of her interest only mortgage.  
What happened
Mrs T has a mortgage with Kensington. She says this was taken around 15 years ago, in 
joint names with her husband. Unfortunately, her husband passed away and Mrs T has said 
that shes now understood how interest only mortgages work.
In March 2021, Kensington wrote to Mrs H about the arrears on the mortgage account and 
reminded her that the mortgage was due to expire in December 2021. 
She contacted Kensington to ask for a term extension but was told this was not possible. But 
it did say that she could have more time if she needed. 
Mrs T complained to Kensington that it didnt allow her a term extension. It didnt uphold the 
complaint but said that she could have more time if she needed and asked her to keep in 
touch and let them know of any proposals to repay the capital or changes to her 
circumstances. 
Mrs T referred the complaint to this service. She says that Kensington said that it was 
working with her to find a solution  but that it was not. 
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mrs T 
didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I just wanted to say that I can see things havent been easy for Mrs T over the last 
few years. Im sorry to learn of her husbands illness and passing and can appreciate that 
this matter has been stressful and worrying. 
With this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether theres anything more I would expect 
Kensington to have fairly done to help. 
I understand that Mrs T has other complaints against in respect of this mortgage  about the 
sale and the interest charged and that she is represented by solicitors in those. 
Those complaints are separate to this complaint. In what follows, Ive only looked at whether 
Kensington has treated her fairly when she asked for an extension to the term of her 
mortgage. 
I can see that Kensington wrote to Mrs T in March 2021 to remind her that the term of her 
mortgage was due to expire in December 2021. This letter outlined that, if Mrs T needed 
further time, Kensington could look to offer that to her. Mrs T contacted Kensington who 
conducted an assessment of her income and expenditure details. She was told that, as her 
mortgage was on interest only terms, it would not consider a term extension. But said it 
would consider giving her more time if she needed it. 
When considering Mrs Ts request for a term extension, I would expect Kensington to take 
into account her individual circumstances and treat her fairly in light of the situation. 
But its also important to keep in mind that it was agreed when this mortgage was taken out 
that the capital would be repaid at the end of the term. I think that Kensington could have 
looked at her request in further detail but, having considered the circumstances, Im afraid I 
dont think that extending the term would have been in Mrs Ts best interests. 
I say this as the mortgage was on interest only terms and I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Mrs T has a guaranteed repayment strategy. Shes said that she was hoping to receive 
funds from claims that she had in relation to the mortgage with solicitors. But I dont consider 
that these are a guarantee and, even if these were upheld, its unlikely that the redress 
would be enough to cover the capital of the mortgage.  
I can see that she is now working so could cover the monthly payments. But Im also aware 
that there are still arrears on the mortgages and whilst Mrs T has been in an arrangement to 
reduce these, they are still at a substantial level. Considering all of this, I dont think that it 
would be in Mrs Ts best interests to extend the term of her mortgage. 
Mrs T has explained that she looked to take out a lifetime mortgage but unfortunately was 
told that she did not meet the criteria. Mrs T may wish to seek independent financial advice 
about this and any other options that may be available to her. 
Currently, the term has expired, and I havent seen that Kensington has taken action to 
recover the debt. I would expect it to give any proposals that Mrs T might make fair 
consideration. And its said that it will give Mrs T extra time if needed, I think thats fair in all 
the circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate how difficult this has been for Mrs T, I would encourage her to keep an 
open dialogue with Kensington and for both parties to discuss alternative solutions. I expect 
Kensington to treat Mrs T fairly in bringing this mortgage to an end. And if the decision is 
made to sell the property - I expect Kensington to treat her fairly in this process and provide 
adequate time to do this. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms H but, having considered everything, 
Im afraid I dont think that I can fairly uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman