DRN-2094243
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA unfairly declined his cancellation claim due to an error it made in 
not automatically renewing his travel insurance policy.
My references to AXA will include its agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr S previously purchased an annual travel insurance policy with AXA, using a comparison 
website. At the time of purchasing the policy, AXA said he hadnt elected for the policy to 
auto-renew.
Mr Ss original policy was due to expire on 22 February 2019. And AXA sent him an email on 
2 February 2019 to let him know. The email said the policy was due to expire, and Mr S 
should log in to AXAs website if he wanted to renew.
Following AXAs email, Mr S logged in to AXAs website. He said he was able to select an 
option for his policy to automatically renew. And he provided a screen shot showing his 
original policy as expired but also automatically renew.
AXA said it wasnt possible for Mr Ss policy to be automatically renewed. Firstly because the 
original level of cover he had was no longer being offered, so it needed him to select a new 
policy. And also because it said it didnt hold any of his payment details to process an 
automatic renewal.
Mr S said he thought his policy had renewed in February 2019. He said he realised in March 
that hed not received any policy documents, and contacted AXA. AXA said it had no record 
of a policy for Mr S, other than the policy which had expired. And it gave him options for 
taking out a new policy. Mr S went on to take out a new policy with AXA online. He selected 
for his cover to start from 27 March 2019. And didnt declare any pre-existing medical
conditions.
Mr S was due to travel on 27 March 2019. Hed previously seen his GP with possible 
prostate symptoms on 5 March 2019, and had been referred for a blood test. Following the 
test results, he was admitted to hospital on 26 March 2019. Mr Ss holiday was booked for 
the following day; he couldnt travel so cancelled his holiday and made a claim against his 
policy.
AXA turned down the cancellation claim. It said Mr Ss cover wasnt due to start until 27 
March 2019, as this was the start date he selected when he took out the policy. And it said 
Mr S had not declared any pre-existing medical conditions. However it said Mr S had been 
aware that he was under investigation for a medical condition from 5 March 2019, which was 
before he took out his policy.
Mr S complained to AXA. He said hed set his policy to renew automatically and thought 
AXA had made an error. He also said hed visited his GP with a minor complaint, and didnt 
foresee that this could lead to a serious health condition which would result in him needing to 
cancel his holiday.
AXA responded to Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S hadnt originally selected auto renewal 
when he took out his first policy, and it didnt hold his bank details in order to process an 
automatic renewal. It also said that the level of cover Mr S originally had was no longer 
available.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said the following.
Renewal of Mr Ss original policy and continuation of cover
I thought the email AXA sent to Mr S in February 2019 about the upcoming expiry of his
policy should have explained the level of cover Mr S previously had was no longer
available, and that it wasnt possible for Mr S to renew online.
When Mr S went online to attempt to renew his policy, he was able to select the auto
renewal option. However, AXA evidenced that a message was presented on screen 
which said the following.
There is an error with your renewal and as such your policy will not renew when it
expires...
AXA also provided evidence showing Mr S accessed its renewal portal on the day he
received the renewal email. And that he attempted to set his policy to automatically 
renew twice on that day, and several times more, two days later.
Mr S said he thought he had likely compared with other policies, which is why he went 
back onto the website two days after his first visit. He said he didnt see any error 
messages, and had he done, he would have contacted AXA. He said he thought his 
policy had successfully renewed.
Having considered what both parties said and the evidence Id seen of the online
screens, I thought it was most likely that Mr S was presented with an error message 
when attempting to renew his policy online. I said this because of the multiple attempts to 
renew the policy, which Mr S made within minutes of each other on his second visit. If 
there had been no error message, or anything which indicated that his action had 
potentially been unsuccessful, I didnt see why Mr S would have made those repeated 
attempts.
I thought AXAs email to Mr S about renewing his policy should have been clearer about 
what he needed to do. If it wasnt possible for Mr S to renew online due to his type of 
policy no longer being available, I thought AXA should have explained this in its email, 
and shouldnt have directed Mr S to an online process which couldnt succeed. And 
alongside the error message AXA displayed on its renewal pages, there didnt seem to 
have been any other direction given about what a customer should do. And I thought 
AXA should have included this.
I said I thought Mr S had the opportunity to spot something was wrong due to themultiple attempts he made to set his policy to renew, and the error messages which AXA 
evidenced were displayed online. And I thought it reasonable to expect Mr S could have
contacted AXA to check if his attempts had been successful, especially after receiving no
confirmation either on screen or by email that his policy had renewed.
Overall I thought the information AXA provided about Mr Ss renewal options and the 
action he needed to take should have been clearer and more detailed. And because of 
this I thought AXA had caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience. So I said 
I thought AXA should pay Mr S £200 in compensation.
Cancellation claim under the new policy
Mr S chose for his policy to start on the first day of his holiday  27 March 2019. But prior 
to this, he was admitted to hospital and as a result had to cancel his holiday. And hed 
not told AXA that he was under investigation for a medical condition when he took the 
policy. I said I was satisfied that AXA hadnt unfairly declined Mr Ss claim for 
cancellation. Firstly because Mr Ss cover hadnt started at the point that he was 
admitted to hospital. And also because hed not declared that he was under investigation 
for a medical condition, as is required by his policy.
The response to my provisional decision 
AXA responded to my provisional decision. In summary it said: 
Mr S was sent a notification email prior to his policys expiry, explaining his options;
The online portal displayed an error message about the renewal, but it acknowledged 
this was not specific;
When Mr S attempted to renew his original policy online, the website made it clear 
the process was manual and no renewal cost was shown; 
At all times AXA made it clear that the policy would expire if Mr S did not take further 
manual action; 
Mr S ignored the warnings shown online; and 
If Mr S had selected the option renew my policy  manual he would have been 
provided with new quotes. 
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional decision with any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses to it.
Having considered what AXA has said, and the further screenshots it has provided from its 
website, Im still of the opinion that the action Mr S was required to take should have been 
made much clearer, both in the email AXA sent about Mr Ss renewal, and on its website. AXA has said Mr S needed to take manual action, and said he should have selected the 
renew my policy  manual option in order to see new quotes. However, Im still not 
persuaded that the actions AXA required Mr S to take to renew his policy were made 
sufficiently clear.  
As the points AXA has raised havent changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given it's my final decision that I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay 
Mr S £200 in compensation due to the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA should pay the compensation for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of us telling 
it Mr S has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should add simple interest 
to the compensation at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of my decision to the date it 
makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman