DRN-2871833
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a mortgage by telling him that the 
interest rate wouldnt go down  only for it later to do so.
What happened
Mr Z applied for a mortgage with Barclays. He discussed his situation with an in-house 
mortgage adviser, who recommended a rate of 2.09%. Mr Z agreed to this and booked his 
new rate. 
Mr Z says that shortly after his new mortgage completed, Barclays reduced its interest rate 
to 1.59%. He says its not fair he is tied in to the 2.09% rate. He says he only agreed to take 
that rate because he was pressured into doing so by the adviser. He says the adviser told 
him this was the best rate Barclays could offer and it would never get any lower  only for it 
to be reduced just a few days after his mortgage completed. Mr Z says that as a result he 
will pay over £6,000 more in interest over the life of the interest rate.
Barclays said that its adviser didnt specifically remember the conversation with Mr Z. But 
she didnt think she would tell a customer that rates couldnt change or wouldnt go down. 
Rather, she would have recommended the best rate for Mr Zs circumstances from those 
available at the time. It said it couldnt change Mr Zs interest rate after the mortgage had 
completed, unless he took a new rate and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to end the 
old one.
When the complaint came to us, Barclays offered to pay Mr Z £150 as a gesture of goodwill 
for the inconvenience he had been put to. However, it maintained that it hadnt done 
anything wrong and wasnt able to change the interest rate. Our investigator thought that 
was a fair outcome. As Mr Z didnt agree, the case comes to me for a final decision to be 
made.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Z discussed his requirements with the mortgage adviser, she recommended a five 
year fixed rate because he wanted to have certainty in his payments ahead of a lump sum 
he was expecting to receive in 2024, which he intended to use to reduce the mortgage 
balance.
At that time, the best rate Barclays had available over five years for Mr Zs situation 
(including loan to value) was 2.09%. And so that was the rate the adviser recommended.
Mr Z says he was also looking around at the market and had spoken to a broker, but had 
decided for himself to speak to his own bank, Barclays. He says he decided to accept the 
offer because the adviser told him this was the best rate there had been, and it couldnt 
reduce during the mortgage.
The adviser says that she wouldnt have told Mr Z that Barclays would never reduce its 
rates, as rates change frequently and can go up and down. She says she would simply have 
recommended the best rate available at the time.
Where theres a conflict, as there is here, I have to decide what, on balance, I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
Barclays various documentation about its rates makes clear that rates are current at the 
time of publication, but could change  going up or down  in the future.
The mortgage offer clearly sets out the rate applicable. It advises Mr Z that he has seven 
days reflection, but once the funds are released he is committed to the mortgage and it cant 
then be changed.
There is no cooling off period with a mortgage as a matter of law; between accepting an offer 
and the release of funds, the borrower can generally withdraw. But once the mortgage 
completes, the borrower is committed to it and it cant then be changed.
I dont think, on balance, that its likely the adviser would have told Mr Z that Barclays would 
never offer a lower rate. She would have said that the rate on Mr Zs mortgage couldnt be 
reduced  which is true, as it is a fixed rate. But its not true that Barclays couldnt or wouldnt 
reduce the general rates it offers to new applicants, and the adviser would have known that. 
Theres no recording of the discussion between Mr Z and the adviser. So all I have available 
is the advisers recommendation, and Mr Zs recollection. The adviser doesnt specifically 
remember their conversation  unsurprisingly since it was some time ago and she sees 
many applicants.
Human memory is fallible, and I have to be careful about placing too much reliance on it. 
Memory isnt a fixed snapshot; it changes over time and what people remember and how 
they remember it is influenced by later events and emotions as well as what happened at the 
time.
Theres nothing in the documentation that says that Barclays wouldnt or couldnt reduce its 
rates generally available below the rate offered to Mr Z. Its publicly available rate lists 
confirm that it could do so.
I think its most likely that Mr Z and the adviser had a discussion about his mortgage, in 
which the adviser confirmed that the rate on his mortgage was fixed and wouldnt go down  
not that the rates Barclays offers generally would never go down.
And then, some time later, when Mr Z had accepted the offer and his mortgage had 
completed, he noticed that Barclays now offered lower rates than he had taken. I think its 
most likely that on seeing that he noted that he was paying more, and was disappointed to 
see that rates had gone down since he booked his rate. And in light of that, and thinking 
back over the conversation, he (honestly, but mistakenly) misremembered the earlier 
conversation as being not an assurance about his own rate, but an assurance about rates 
more generally  an assurance the adviser wasnt in a position to give.
Im therefore satisfied that its more likely than not that Barclays didnt mislead Mr Z about 
the future direction of interest rates, and that this mortgage wasnt therefore mis-sold.
And even if Im wrong about that, I dont think this was the reason Mr Z took the mortgage. 
Hed already consulted a broker, and knew that there were rates available in the market 
which were lower than the rate Barclays were offering. But he had decided to go with Barclays as they had an existing relationship and he could apply direct rather than through 
the broker. 
This suggests to me that price wasnt the key factor in Mr Z choosing Barclays  since at the 
time he agreed to the rate he already knew it wasnt the cheapest available to him. 
Once Mr Z had committed to the mortgage and the funds had been released, no changes 
could be made. The only way to reduce the interest rate was to break the old fixed rate and 
take a new one  paying an early repayment charge (ERC). And since, for the reasons Ive 
given above I dont think Barclays made a mistake or mis-sold the mortgage, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask it to waive the ERC or reduce the rate without charging one.
Mr Z says that Barclays didnt handle his complaint fairly, in particular because the complaint 
handler first told him that the adviser had left the bank and then told him that she hadnt. 
Barclays has explained that the adviser has changed her surname since she spoke to Mr Z. 
And so when the complaint handler looked her up on the staff directory she couldnt at first 
be found. 
I think thats a reasonable explanation for the confusion, and in any case I dont think this 
had any impact on the outcome of the complaint since once she was contacted the adviser 
had no memory of the conversation with Mr Z and therefore nothing to contribute to the 
investigation  the paperwork she generated being retained on Barclays systems anyway.
Putting things right
Since the complaint was brought to us, Barclays has offered to pay Mr Z £150 compensation 
as a gesture to recognise the inconvenience he has been put to in making his complaint. I 
think thats a fair offer, and I dont ask it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
offer of £150 compensation to settle this complaint and I dont make any other direction or 
award. If Mr Z accepts this decision, Barclays should pay it to him within 28 days of us 
notifying it that he has done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman