DRN-2482574
The complaint
Mr T complains he had to chase Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), for a 
response to Data Subject Access Requests (DSARs) and that they withheld partial call 
recordings.
What happened
Mr T submitted an initial DSAR in August 2019 and Halifax provided data for the period 
defined in the request. Mr T contacted Halifax by telephone to say he hadnt received the 
information requested and that Halifax hadnt returned his calls. He also queried the data 
Halifax had supplied and clarified what data he required. 
When Halifax responded to the DSAR and other matters Mr T had raised, Mr T queried the 
date range and requested data up until October 2019. Halifax said that a new request would 
need to be made for the new date range. Mr Ts friend submitted an email request on Mr Ts 
behalf for this information. Halifax initially said it hadnt received this further request, but later 
said they hadnt dealt with the email from Mr Ts friend. They then re-opened the DSAR after 
Mr T made a verbal request for the data at the end of October 2019.
When the request was received by the DSAR team at Halifax, the address provided didnt 
match the address they held, and they were unable to complete the customer verification 
process. Halifax then issued a letter to Mr T asking him to go into a branch with identification 
to update his address details.
Halifax provided a response to the October 2019 request on 5 November 2019 confirming 
they had sent him all the information they held. But Mr T believed there was still information 
missing or withheld. 
Mr T complained to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and Halifax agreed Mr T 
shouldnt have failed the customer verification process in 2019. They agreed to re-open the 
DSAR and confirmed to Mr T they would carry out a further search of their records.
In May 2020, Halifax provided a final response to Mr T to say they had re-considered the 
issues he had raised in respect of the DSARs he had submitted, and they were satisfied 
they had previously provided all the audio files and correspondence he had with them.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response from Halifax and brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things for Mr T and thought that Halifax hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when dealing the DSARs.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decide his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint, and what we have agreed our service can investigate, is that Mr 
T had to call Halifax several times to obtain the DSAR he made and that the data they sent 
him was incomplete.
I have seen that Halifax have recently provided a further response to Mr T in which they 
explain why they believe Mr T has now received all the data they hold, and why some calls 
may not be available. It isnt unusual for businesses like Halifax to have disposed of 
telephone call recordings from more than six years ago as there is no regulatory requirement 
for them to keep records for this long. 
Therefore, I will now explain why I consider Halifax didnt treat Mr T unfairly or unreasonably 
when it dealt with the DSARs August and October 2019.
I can see that Halifax did respond to the initial DSAR Mr T made in August 2019. However, 
there was some confusion over what Mr T had requested and what the date range of the 
request was. This resulted in Mr Ts friend submitting a further request by email. Im satisfied 
that Halifax couldve dealt with this further request better than they did, but when they 
became aware that Mr Ts friend had sent the request, they took steps to deal with it 
immediately and provided feedback to the member of staff involved. 
Unfortunately, when the request was considered by the DSAR team, they couldnt deal with 
it as the address they held was different to the address on the request. I have seen Halifax 
did write to Mr T to tell him he had failed to complete their customer verification process and 
had taken the decision to limit contact to email or letter. Halifax did write to Mr T to tell him 
they werent able to provide further data until they had verified his address, and when Mr T 
didnt respond, Halifax closed the DSAR. My view is that this wasnt unreasonable.
In my opinion, it seems that there was a breakdown in the relationship between Mr T and 
Halifax around this time and this added to Mr Ts frustration that Halifax hadnt dealt with the 
DSAR request in August 2019 well. However, I think they did deal with this request fairly and 
reasonably.
In respect of the follow-up request made by Mr Ts friend in October 2019, Halifax initially 
missed the email, but they did take reasonable steps to put this right at the time they 
became aware. They provided feedback to staff and processed the request. But I think its 
fair and reasonable that they withheld sending the data by post as there was a discrepancy 
with Mr Ts address.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman