DRN-3217605
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services 
(PO) took too long in sending a bank card for her savings account, and when it did the card 
sent was faulty.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss S and PO, and has been 
comprehensively covered by our investigator in his view, so I dont propose to repeat it in 
any detail here. But in summary:
Miss S says she opened an Instant Saver account in a PO branch in March 2021. But by 20 
April 2021 shed only received her bank card, and not her PIN. So she called PO to ask 
about it. But she says the customer advisor was rude, wouldnt give their name and hung up 
on her.
On 21 April 2021 her PIN and 6-digit security number arrived, so Miss S attended a PO 
branch and attempted to use the card in an ATM, but found she couldnt make a withdrawal. 
She asked for help in the branch, but she says the member of staff also couldnt make it 
work and said it was faulty. Miss S called PO again and raised a complaint that the card was 
faulty, and would only work at the counter and not at the ATM, and she said she wanted a 
replacement sent to her. She also complained about the rudeness of the previous operator. 
PO investigated this complaint, and gave her its final response on 15 June 2021, by which 
time Miss S had already referred the complaint to our service. PO didnt uphold her 
complaint. It also said it had no recording or client contact note about the call in which she 
said she was spoken to rudely. It invited her to provide further details so it could trace the 
call.
Although PO maintained that the card wasnt faulty, as a result of our investigation it sent 
Miss S a replacement card. But she said this was faulty too. Our investigator asked her for 
some evidence of what was happening with the ATM when she tried to use the card, but it 
then became fully functional, with no further problems.
Miss S also told our service that she thought PO were discriminating against her due to her 
race. 
Having considered the evidence, our investigator didnt think PO had done anything wrong.
But Miss S didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S so Ill explain.
PO records show Miss S applied to open her account on 22 March 2021, but it wasnt 
actually opened until 13 April 2021. She had received both the card, and her PIN and 6-digit 
security number by 21 April 2021. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable length of time, and 
broadly in line with normal practice. I dont think PO have done anything wrong here.
 
PO have said there is no contact note or call recording of the call during which Miss S says 
she was spoken to rudely. And other than her word, there is no further evidence about this 
call, and she hasnt provided any further detail. Im satisfied that PO automatically record all 
calls and update its client contact notes when calls are made or received, so in the absence 
of these or other details Im unable, on balance, to say PO have done anything wrong here.
Ive seen Miss Ss account statement which shows she made several cash withdrawals from 
21 April 2021 onwards. She maintains these were all at a branch counter, but has since 
agreed that her card is now working correctly at an ATM. PO said it didnt send out a 
replacement card when she requested one, as Miss S didnt supply the required 6-digit pin 
she was asked for. As she couldnt pass this security requirement a new card wasnt issued. 
This is a reasonable security requirement intended to protect both the consumers account, 
and the security of the bank, so I dont think PO did anything wrong here.
Miss S has also complained about the length of time PO took to investigate her complaint, 
and the letters it sent her during the process. Complaint handling is generally something that 
is outside of the jurisdiction of our service, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I can 
confirm it isnt something that we can look at. But whilst its not for me to decide this aspect of 
the complaint, in order to reassure Miss S, I can say, having looked at the evidence, I 
havent seen anything untoward in how PO appears to have gone about things in relation to 
its complaint handling.
Having looked in detail at the contact notes and what has happened here, and having 
carefully considered her testimony, I cant say that PO have treated Miss S unfairly. I have 
also considered carefully if there is any evidence that leads me to think PO has treated her 
in a discriminatory way due to her race, either directly or indirectly. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this is the case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman