DRN-2391349
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lynden Limited trading as FindYour PPI asked him to pay a success fee 
for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim he said they hadnt been authorised by him to 
make.
What happened
Mr T said FYP had contacted him several times to agree for them to look into whether hed 
any PPI. In August 2019, he said he signed FYPs letter of authority (LoA) for them to carry 
out a check for him. But he hadnt signed any further documents for them and hadnt agreed 
for them to submit a claim for him. Mr T said in December 2019, one of his lenders had 
contacted him and hed dealt with them direct for his PPI claim. Mr T said he also wrote to 
FYP stating he didnt want them to do any work for him. And in July 2020 he received an 
offer of compensation from this lender. But FYP said that he owed them their success fee as 
his claim had been successful.
Mr T complained to FYP. They said hed authorised them to act on his behalf in August 
2019. FYP said Mr T had asked them to stop working for him but this was at the same time 
as hed been told by his lender that his claim was successful. They said their fee was 
justified.
Mr T wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FYPs actions had enabled a PPI claim to be submitted prior to the 
August 2019 deadline. And Mr Ts claim was successful so FYPs fee was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr T didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration as he says hed only asked FYP to carry out a free PPI 
check and doesnt accept that hed authorised them to look into whether there was any PPI 
with his lender. He also said he hadnt signed any other documentation sent to him by FYP 
and had dealt directly with his lender.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether Mr T had authorised FYP 
to act on his behalf, and if he had whether FYP has acted fairly and reasonably in line with 
their terms and conditions.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. As a 
result, FYP amended their terms and conditions to reflect an auto-convert process. After 
the August 2019 deadline had passed, lenders werent accepting new claims unless there 
were exceptional circumstances.
It isnt in dispute that in August 2019 Mr T signed a LoA instructing FYP to check whether he 
had any PPI.
The LoA he signed says:
Due to closeness of the 29 August PPI deadline, in the event of PPI being found, I also give 
consent to Lynden Ltd t/as FindYourPPI to act on my behalf in relation to mis-sold financial 
products and claims against the Finance Company as Instructed. I further authorise 
FindYourPPI to receive correspondence directly regarding my claim, any other daims 
Identified by the Finance Company and any documentation that would help my claim(s).
And highlighted just above the signature area:
This is a Letter of Authority for a PPI information request, Subject Access Request under 
the GDPR and , where applicable, Auto Conversion PPI Claim
FYP said they sent Mr Ts LoA to his lender on 22 August 2019.
In December 2019, Mr Ts lender told FYP that theyd found PPI on Mr Ts mortgage 
account. I can see FYP notified Mr T and asked him to complete a PPI questionnaire to 
provide information to support his claim the PPI was mis-sold. But Mr T didnt return the PPI 
questionnaire. 
FYP told Mr T:
If you prefer not to return the form and we havent heard back from your within 14 days, we 
will request that your lender continue to investigate your claim without your further input. 
Mr T said he never returned the PPI questionnaire or other forms for FYP and dealt with his 
lender directly. But this would have been after the August 2019 deadline date and his lender 
wouldnt have accepted this as a new claim as theyd already received and auto converted 
his claim from the LoA sent by FYP. And as outlined above as he didnt respond, FYP would 
have continued to pursue his claim with his lender. 
On 2 July 2020, Mr Ts lender notified both Mr T and FYP that his PPI claim had been 
successful. I think this shows that Mr Ts lender accepted that Mr Ts complaint had been 
brought to them by FYP on his behalf. So, Im satisfied Mr T authorised FYP to act for him to 
pursue his PPI claim. 
Ive considered whether Mr T cancelled his agreement with FYP. The terms and conditions 
say:
You have 14 days from the date of signing the Agreement Form to cancel your agreement 
with no charge, under our "cooling off' period. The agreement referred to is the LoA. I havent seen any evidence that Mr T asked 
FYP to cancel the agreement either within or after the 14 day cooling off period from 
when he signed the LoA in August 2019.  I know Mr T didnt return any other 
documents to FYP, but I dont think by simply disengaging from the process that its 
enough to consider this as his cancelling the agreement. And by not telling FYP he 
didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, 
theyd continued with the submitted PPI claims to his lender. 
Mr T said in July 2020 he wrote to FYP and asked them to stop working for him. This 
was outside of the 14 day cooling off period. FYPs terms and conditions say:
 You can also cancel at any time after that in the exact same way unless a Finance 
Company has issued a letter of intent to make an offer  in which case our fees will 
apply to the offer of compensation you have received 
And Mr Ts lender had already confirmed his claim was successful. 
The agreement Mr T had with FYP was based on a No Win No Fee. This means FYP 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. 
Where a claim was successful, FYPs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mr 
Ts claim was successful, and FYPs fees were charged in line with what Mr T agreed 
to and reflect the fee cap thats in place for PPI claims. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence 
provided I think FYP had been authorised to act on his behalf to pursue his claim for 
mis-sold PPI.  And he didnt cancel his agreement with them within the 14-day cooling 
off period. So, I think FYP has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and 
they can charge their success fee. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman