DRN-4006383
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the price quoted by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) to renew their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B made a claim against their policy for an escape of water which was settled 
by LV. They then received a quote to renew their policy which they say was almost double 
what theyd paid the previous year. Mr B and Mrs B say their claim settlement was much 
higher than it shouldve been as the repair works involved rectifying errors caused by LVs 
appointed builders. Mr B and Mrs B felt it was unfair their premium should increase so 
significantly because of the additional claim costs incurred by LV to correct their own 
builders errors. 
LV responded and explained theyd made changes to improve the accuracy of their premium 
calculations. They explained they cant share the specifics on how they calculate premiums 
as this is business sensitive information. LV explained, normally they wouldve introduced 
changes like this to new customers only and then slowly introduced it to their existing 
customers with restrictions on how much their premiums would increase to reduce the 
likelihood of a large premium increase like Mr B and Mrs B have had. LV said, however, the 
new Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pricing rules which came into effect meant they had 
to apply the same tariff to both existing and new customers which has led to some existing 
customers being impacted more than LV wouldve liked. LV accepted Mrs B had 
experienced difficulties when attempting to discuss this matter with LV. So, as well as 
apologising, LV also paid £50 compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs B. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr B 
and Mrs B unfairly in relation to the pricing and thought the £50 already paid was reasonable 
for the customer service issue. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B and Mrs B will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I think its important to 
clarify, my decision here is only looking at the complaint about the price of the policy.   
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr B and Mrs B paid a premium of £663.79 in 2021 but then received a quote for 
£1,278.42 in 2022  this is around 93% more than what they paid the year before. LV have 
provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr B and       
Mrs Bs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price theyve been 
charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other LV 
customers in Mr B and Mrs Bs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I understand Mr B and Mrs B believe the increase in premium is down to the value of their 
claim for escape of water. I do acknowledge their concern and understand they feel its 
unfair their premium should increase when they say the settlement value of the claim was 
much higher because the builders LV originally instructed caused additional damage which 
then needed to be repaired. Mr B and Mrs B also say LV incorrectly recorded theyve had 
three claims instead of two. So, Ive looked at the information provided by LV in detail to see 
whether the price increase was caused by the two points raised by Mr B and Mrs B.  
I can see the 2022 renewal took into account two claims, one of these being the claim for 
escape of water. The information provided by LV shows there were two claims so its not 
unreasonable for LV to take this into account when calculating the price of the policy. I 
acknowledge Mr B and Mrs Bs concern about the value of the claim  and the reasons for 
the settlement value being as high as it was  but the information doesnt show the claim 
value has affected the price of the policy. In addition to this, I can see the third claim Mr B 
and Mrs B are referring to appears on LVs system, but this was recorded as notification only 
and hasnt impacted the price of the policy. So, I cant say LV have made a mistake here 
when calculating the renewal. And, in taking the claim factor into account in the way they 
have, I cant say LV have treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly.     
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see 
another factor for the increase relates to new rules for general insurance pricing introduced 
by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers 
need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent 
retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr B and Mrs B were offered their renewal 
by LV, so they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the 
information provided shows Mr B and Mrs B havent been charged more than the ENBP - I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr B and Mrs B would likely want to see to 
understand why their premium increased as it did at renewal. A large reason for the change 
is in response to the FCA pricing rules and LV taking the steps they needed to, allowing 
them to be compliant with these. Mr B and Mrs B may feel this is unfair, but LV, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained the ENBP was a change across all their policies as 
they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and Mr B and Mrs B havent been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to 
change their approach. 
LV have described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the 
expected costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr B and Mrs Bs premium increasing at 
renewal. In addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr B and Mrs B 
that they could shop around to see if they could get a better price. Mr B and Mrs B first took 
out their policy with LV in 2014 so, as there have been at least four renewals, then section 
6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to 
provide specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr B 
and Mrs B fairly, I think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I understand Mr B and Mrs Bs main concern around the price increase is that they believe 
the value of the settlement of the escape of water claim has impacted the price. But, I hope 
they feel reassured that Ive checked this and its not the value of the settlement which has 
had an impact, but rather the fact that there have been two claims  together with LV 
changing their rating structure to be compliant with the FCA pricing rules. I wish to reassure 
Mr B and Mrs B Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I note LV have acknowledged they made an error in their handling of Mr B and Mrs Bs 
queries about the pricing. I can see theyve paid £50 compensation for this, and I think this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman