DRN-2959419
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt give him all the information they should 
have when he called them about his shares.
What happened
Mr L called Barclays Smart Investor on 12 August 2019 and sold some shares he held in his 
account. Mr L later changed his mind and called Barclays again on 23 August 2019 to buy 
the shares back. 
Mr L complains that during the first call Barclays didnt give him all the information they 
should have to enable him to make an informed decision. He says Barclays should have told 
him he could transfer his shares out and informed him of an upcoming dividend payment on 
the shares. Mr L says that if hed been given this information, he might not have sold the 
shares in the first place and hes lost out as a result.
Barclays say they didnt do anything wrong. They offer an execution only service and it was 
up to Mr L to be aware of his options and of information such as the dividend dates for his 
shares. They offered Mr L £100 as a gesture of goodwill and waived the commission fee on 
the transaction when Mr L bought back his shares.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. Mr L disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls complaint is about the phone call on 12 August 2019 during which he gave the 
instruction to sell his shares. He says Barclays should have told him that he could instead 
have transferred the shares to another ISA. And he thinks they should also have informed 
him that by selling the shares he would miss out on a dividend that was due shortly. 
Mr L holds an execution only account. That means Barclays are responsible for carrying 
out the transactions that Mr L requests. They are not responsible for providing advice or 
ensuring that a transaction is suitable for Mr L. The terms of Mr Ls account also make clear 
that he is responsible for obtaining appropriate information prior to making a trade and that 
all transactions are based on his own judgment. 
So, Mr L is responsible for deciding what transactions to carry out on his account. It is also 
up to him to find out whats happening with the companies he holds shares in. 
Given that, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays should have given him the additional 
information he suggests when he called on 12 August. Barclays carried out his request to 
sell his shares and I dont think they did anything wrong by doing so. 
As I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong, I wont be asking them to compensate 
Mr L. But even if I did think Barclays had made a mistake, I dont think that Mr L has lost out 
as a result. I note that he was able to buy back two more shares than he sold at a lower 
price and that Barclays waived the commission fee on the transaction. And from what Ive 
seen, I think Barclays goodwill offer was likely greater than any dividend payment Mr L 
would have received.
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr L, but I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman