DRN-1192659
The complaint
Mr J complains that Precise Protect Ltd told him he should cancel his old income and 
accident protection policies which left him without cover after he had an accident.
 
What happened
Mr J held an income protection and an accident plan with a provider Ill refer to as A. After 
he spoke to Precise in December 2018 about taking out a new income protection plan with a 
new provider (Ill refer to as B), he cancelled both of his policies with A. 
Mr J then had an accident and tried to claim under his new policy. B reviewed the claim but 
said Mr J wasnt covered under the new policy for his accident. So, Mr J made a complaint to 
Precise. 
Precise reviewed the complaint but said it didnt think it did anything wrong. So, Mr J brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. After listening to the sales call, 
he said Precise hadnt told Mr J to cancel both his policies with his old provider. He felt it was 
clear that Precise and Mr J were discussing his income protection plan not an accident 
policy. 
Mr J disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman review. He said Precise told him he 
needed to cancel both direct debits, so he did.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr J. So, Ill 
explain why.  
 
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied Precise mislead Mr J or made 
a mistake which led to him cancelling both his direct debits with A.
Ive listened to the call where Precise sold Mr J his new policy. Having done so, Im satisfied 
they were talking about an income protection policy. They discussed how much Mr J was 
currently paying for his income protection policy and only mentioned the monthly cost of the 
new income protection policy with the benefit this would provide him with. Precise didnt 
mention the monthly cost of the accident policy with A or offer Mr J a replacement for this 
policy. 
I note that when they discussed the direct debit at the end of the call Precise only ever 
mentioned cancelling one direct debit. At no time did they tell Mr J to cancel both his direct 
debits and I didnt hear Mr J asking if he should cancel both of his polices. 
Mr J was also sent policy documentation after the sale by B which explained he only had an 
income protection policy. If Mr J didnt think this was correct, he had the option to query this 
within 14 days of the policy starting in January 2019. 
So, despite my sympathies for Mr J following his accident, I dont think Precise made a 
mistake or mislead him into cancelling both his policies with A. 
So, Im not going to ask Precise to anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman