DRN-2611020
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the standard of repairs carried out by her insurers Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva), under a home emergency policy. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mrs C contacted Aviva and made a claim under her home emergency 
policy, as she had discovered that there was a leak in her home.  Aviva sent an engineer 
who found the source of the leak and repaired it. 
In April 2020 (around 18 months later) Mrs C had another leak in the same area. She 
contacted a third-party plumber who concluded that the repair carried out by Aviva 18 
months previously - had been substandard, as the engineer had failed to ensure that the 
pipe was covered with sand to protect it from punctures. They also said that the entire pipe 
should have been replaced, which wouldve made the repair permanent, rather than just the 
section of damaged pipe that Aviva changed. 
Mrs C contacted Aviva and raised a complaint, as she felt that Avivas poor workmanship 
caused the current leak. She wanted Aviva to pay for the repairs. In its final response, Aviva 
said that it had carried out a permanent repair in line with its policy. The complaint about the 
repair fell outside of its guarantee period of 12 months and Mrs C hadnt provided any expert 
evidence to support her complaint that Aviva was responsible for the leak that happened in 
2020. So, there was nothing further it could reasonably do. 
Mrs C wasnt happy, as she said that she had sought consumer advice and was told that 
repairs had to be carried out with reasonable care and skill, which she felt Aviva had failed to 
do. Also, that any repairs were covered with a six-year guarantee irrespective of any 
warranties or guarantees from a business. And finally, she felt that Aviva had failed to advise 
her that the repair was only temporary. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be partially 
upheld. He concluded that Aviva didnt make it clear to Mrs C that the repair wasnt 
permanent and there was no mention in the policy documents that a repair would be 
temporary. So, for this, he awarded £100 compensation, as he said Mrs C had suffered a 
loss of expectation. 
Both parties didnt agree with our investigator. Mrs C said that the level of compensation 
awarded wasnt enough for the distress and inconvenience that she suffered as a result of 
Aviva not providing her with the correct advice. Aviva said that the repair carried out was a 
permanent repair. This was the only leak reported, so it would be unreasonable for it to have 
replaced the entire pipe. Also, that Aviva provided an emergency response to issues and did 
not provide preventative advice as this wasnt within the terms of the policy.
Both parties asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 19 January 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
18 February 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment for Mrs C, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents, the engineer reports, job records and the comments 
from both parties. Mrs C had taken out a home emergency policy and in October 2018 a leak 
occurred in her home. The main issues of this complaint are whether Aviva carried out a 
temporary repair, the standard of the repair and whether the repair fell outside Avivas 12 
months guarantee.  
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint and did so on the basis that Aviva had 
failed to sufficiently advise Mrs C that the repair was only temporary and not a permanent fix. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions. Within the policy definitions it states: 
What is covered: You are covered for incidents relating to your plumbing and drainage. The 
engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing leaking pipes It further 
says regarding water supply pipes that it will: locate the leak and replace the affected 
section... 
Aviva confirmed that because Mrs C held a home emergency policy, its obligations were to 
attend and either repair or replace the section of pipe that had been leaking. Under the 
policy, it deemed this to be a permanent repair.  
 Mrs C hadnt reported any other issue with the pipe, except the leak that Aviva repaired. On 
balance, I think that it was unreasonable to expect Aviva to have replaced the entire pipe, 
when the damaged part of the pipe had been repaired and when Aviva had complied with 
the policy terms. 
Mrs C said that the second leak was caused as a result of the poor workmanship that Aviva 
carried out during the repairs to the first leak. I have reviewed the engineers report that Mrs 
C provided in support. It suggests that one of the reasons why the work was poor was 
because the original repair hole wasnt big enough, which didnt allow adequate space for 
the work to be carried out. Aviva has provided job reports from the engineer who attended in 
2018. He provided a detailed report on the work he carried out. This included detecting the 
leak, digging six inches of concrete out, removing flooring, locating the leaking pipe and 
digging a one-foot hole to give me enough room to make the fix. The evidence suggests 
that the engineer recognised that he would need space to carry out the work and it seems 
that he took reasonable steps to try and ensure that this was carried out. 
In addition, Mrs Cs expert mentioned that in attempting to repair the pipe, Avivas engineer 
wouldve had to have bent the pipe at a steep radius and in doing so it wouldve cracked the 
pipe. Aviva said that the pipe that was used to complete the repair could tolerate some 
bending if needed. And the fitting used by its engineer wouldnt have required the pipe to be 
bent to complete the repair. I think that it is more likely than not that the work carried out was 
reasonable especially as the evidence shows that the second leak and crack wasnt in the 
exact position as the first leak.Mrs Cs engineer commented that Aviva hadnt complied with the regulations at the time, as 
it hadnt correctly backfilled the hole with sand. I have seen photos of the area and I have 
reviewed the evidence and the comments made by both parties. Avivas engineers report 
confirmed that sand was used and placed around the pipe. And it appears from the photos, 
that it was more likely than not that the Aviva engineer did backfill the area with sand, even if 
it wasnt apparent to Mrs C. 
I have next looked at the 12-month guarantee. The policy terms state that repairs are 
guaranteed for a period of 12 months. The first leak occurred in October 2018 and the 
second leak occurred around 18 months later, which was outside of the guarantee period. I 
dont think that Mrs C has shown a link between the two leaks because of the reasons given 
above. But also, Mrs Cs expert said that the second leak was close to the previous repair 
but not in the exact position of the previous repair. In the circumstances, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to conclude that Aviva shouldnt apply the terms of the policy to this 
claim. 
Mrs C said that under consumer legislation, repairs were covered by a six-year guarantee 
irrespective of any warranties or guarantees that a business provides. I have taken this into 
account. But the contract that Mrs C entered with Aviva was that repairs were guaranteed for 
a 12-month period. And this is what Aviva has applied. 
Taking all of this into account, I think that Aviva carried out the repairs in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and I think that it was more likely than not, based on the evidence to 
hand that Mrs C was reasonably aware that the repair was permanent. So, I cant fairly ask 
Aviva to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
As neither party has commented, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman