DRN-2834521
The complaint
Ms R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly allowed her to open two 
credit card accounts that were unaffordable.
What happened
Ms R says she opened the credit card accounts in 2017 but Tesco didnt carry out 
appropriate checks on them. She says she was in financial difficulties and by December 
2019 she had lost the benefits income from her children that had passed away. Ms R says 
she suffered with stress as a result of her personal circumstances and from the debt she 
was in and would like all charges refunded.
Tesco says the two accounts were opened in 2017 and Ms R declared an income of 
between £1,000 and £1,500. It says it carried out affordability checks and took into account 
the lack of adverse information on Ms Rs credit file. Tesco says the accounts were well 
managed until 2019 which suggests they were affordable. It has offered to help Ms R with 
her financial difficulties.
Ms R brought her complaint to us and told us that she believed she could afford the credit 
card accounts until her son passed away in December 2019. She has provided part of her 
credit file but says the score is described as Fair which cant be right.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought appropriate checks were carried out 
by Tesco on both applications which gave Ms R an interest free period on purchases of 
some time. The investigator thought Ms R had told us the affordability problems took place in 
December 2019 when Ms Rs income  significantly reduced.
Ms R doesnt accept that view and says she had numerous other credit card accounts at the 
time and says Tesco didnt check her income or outgoings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms R will be disappointed by my decision and also appreciate how difficult the 
last few years must have been for her.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
loan or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of lending. These were applications for a credit facility rather than for example a loan 
or mortgage. And so I wouldnt have expected Tescos checks to have been as detailed here 
than compared to, for example, a mortgage application.
I have looked at Tescos records and can see that Ms R declared an income of between 
£1,000 for the first account application and £1,500 for the second. I can also see that Tesco 
did carry out checks before lending and checked Ms Rs credit score and record and also 
looked at her total debt. I think Tesco also considered the lack of adverse information at the 
time on Ms Rs credit file. So, Im satisfied that Tesco did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on both account applications and that its decision to lend was not 
irresponsible.
Im also satisfied that Tescos lending decision was affordable at the time and I can see that 
Ms R managed her Tesco accounts appropriately for some significant time after they were 
opened in 2017. I think on balance Ms R experienced financial difficulties when her income 
reduced following the passing away of her children. I cant fairly hold Tesco responsible for 
the change in Ms Rs circumstances or that it could have known what was to take place 
some time after the accounts were opened.
I appreciate Ms R says she had a number of other accounts at the time the Tesco accounts 
were opened. But I dont think Ms R has given us her full credit file and can see that she 
says her credit score is recorded as Fair.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms 
Rs account applications. I can see Ms R told us that she believed she could afford the 
accounts until December 2019 when her circumstances changed. I cant fairly find that 
Tesco made a mistake in 2017 in those circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman