DRN-3657098
The complaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to pay a cheque he had intended to use to 
fund his ISA at another financial institution.
What happened
Mr D wanted to pay £5,000 into his ISA at another financial institution, Y, before the end of 
the tax year so he could make the most of his annual allowance. To this end he wrote a 
cheque to be drawn on his Barclays account, made out to himself. 
Y attempted to bank the cheque, but Barclays refused to pay it. The reason they gave was 
that the signature on the cheque did not match what they had on record for Mr D. They said 
the company they used to process their cheques had tried to call Mr D to clarify but he 
hadnt answered on either number theyd called, so theyd made the decision not to pay the 
cheque.
Mr D complained about this. He said the banks decision had caused him to miss the 
opportunity to pay the amount into his ISA in the relevant tax year, and he didnt understand 
why they had made the decision in any event. Mr D noted that he had regularly written 
cheques using the same signature and the bank had never said it was a problem before. He 
observed that his signature would have changed a little over the years and that was normal. 
Mr D added that hed missed a call but hed rung the number straight back and not been 
able to get through.
Barclays didnt accept Mr Ds complaint, so he referred it to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter. He concluded the following:
Barclays had reached a reasonable conclusion that the signature on the cheque 
didnt match their records for Mr D. 
Barclays appeared to have followed its procedures for this kind of situation correctly. 
They made a reasonable attempt to get in contact with Mr D before deciding not to 
honour the cheque.
Overall, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed. He said 
the bank had had a 20 year old signature on file for him and he reiterated that hed had 
plenty of cheques with his current signature be paid without problems, and had tried to call 
back when hed missed the phone call from the bank. The case has now been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A cheque is a written payment instruction from a person to their bank to pay, on demand, a 
named beneficiary a specific amount of money. 
Its accepted by everyone now that Mr D was the person who wrote the cheque which is the 
subject of dispute in this complaint. It was a legitimate payment instruction. The important 
question to answer is whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to honour the 
cheque when it was presented for payment.
Can Barclays refuse to pay a cheque in general?
Its generally accepted, and reasonable to expect, that banks will have procedures in place 
to protect their customers accounts from fraud. This includes not making payments when 
there is doubt over whether the instruction comes from their customer or with their authority.
Ive seen a copy of the current terms and conditions for personal accounts at Barclays. 
These have been in place since November 2020. One section of the terms and conditions is 
titled Checking your instructions. It says the following:
Well only follow your instructions if we think they are complete, clear and come from 
youOur aim is to keep your money safe and avoid mistakesIf its not complete or clear, 
or we dont think it came from you, we wont carry out the instruction.
There is another section titled: When we dont have to follow your instructions. Among the 
reasons given for not following a customers instructions are:
We dont think it came from you (or someone authorised to give instructions for you).
This establishes that Barclays were entitled not to pay the cheque, if they didnt think the 
instruction came from Mr D. There are other reasons why a bank would be entitled not to 
pay a cheque, but they arent relevant in this case.
Was it reasonable for Barclays to conclude the cheque was not written by Mr D?
Ive examined the cheque and the signatures Barclays held on its system at the relevant 
time. Barclays had recorded several variants of Mr Ds signature, seemingly dating at least 
as far back as 2003. The signature on the cheque was, in my opinion, quite different from 
any of these variations. While there were similarities in the way Mr D signed his initials, his 
surname on the cheque was written in quite a different way which would be difficult to say 
was a natural variation. I can understand therefore why the bank would have been 
concerned that the cheque had not been written by him and my view is that it was 
reasonable for it to reach that conclusion.
Agents of the bank attempted to contact Mr D to verify the cheque had been written by him. 
He accepts he missed the call (or calls). I know hes annoyed that when he called back he 
couldnt get through to anyone, but ultimately the bank had already gone beyond the 
minimum I would have expected here.
Does it matter that Mr D had done this many times before, or that he had made the cheque 
out to himself?
I can understand why Mr D would think, if he had written many cheques with a different 
signature, that the bank did not have any problem with this. Barclays has said that it doesnt 
subject every cheque presented for payment to the same level of scrutiny. So if Mr D had 
written other cheques in the past, the discrepancy in his signature wouldnt necessarily have 
been detected. It doesnt mean however, that it was unreasonable of the bank to refuse to 
pay the cheque when the difference in his signature was finally spotted. 
I also note that in Barclays terms and conditions it does say that it is Mr Ds responsibility to let the bank know if his signature has changed. There is a section titled Keeping us 
informed of changes to your details which says:
You must tell us if any of your details change. This includes your situation (for example, 
change of name, nationality, tax residency, signature)
So it wasnt enough for Mr D simply to start writing cheques with a different signature  he 
needed to tell the bank that his signature had changed.
Finally, a cheque made out to the same person who wrote it (the drawer) isnt risk-free from 
a fraud perspective. There have been examples of accounts being opened in the name of 
the drawer with false identification. So the fact Mr D made the cheque out to himself doesnt 
mean it was wrong of the bank to question the instruction had come from him when it noticed 
his signature didnt match its records.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining to honour Mr Ds cheque. It follows that I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman