DRN-3419004
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc are asking him to pay charges on his overdraft, 
and that theyve continued to add charges to his account, even though its now been closed.
What happened
Mr S opened a current account with Clydesdale in March 2016. The account had a £200 
overdraft facility, which Mr S used. And he was charged the overdraft usage fees and a 
monthly account fee. Mr S queried the charges in February 2019, and Clydesdale told him 
they formed part of the terms of the account. In July 2019, Mr S asked Clydesdale to close 
the account, as he no longer used it. At this point the account was £277.74 overdrawn.
In July 2019, Clydesdale arranged a repayment plan to clear the overdraft. But Mr S didnt 
make the agreed payments. And Clydesdale charged a £20 fee. Mr S was unhappy he was 
being charged by Clydesdale, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Clydesdale acted reasonably by charging Mr S for the monthly account 
fee and for the overdraft usage, as these were in the terms and conditions of the account. 
But he hadnt seen anything to show him these fees had been charged after the account had 
been closed, or that Mr S had asked Clydesdale to close the account earlier than July 2019.
The investigator also said Clydesdale had acted fairly by setting up a payment plan to clear 
the overdraft. And, because Mr S didnt make any payments under this plan, they were able 
to charge the £20 fee. So, he didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. And he thought we were favouring Clydesdale as 
hed asked for the account to be closed. He didnt think it was fair that he had to pay £70 
worth of charges on a £200 overdraft, or that Clydesdale keep putting the charges on.
Because he didnt agree with the investigator, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen the fee tariff information for Mr Ss account, which Clydesdale provided to him over 
the lifetime of the account. This confirms Mr S was being charged a £6 monthly planned 
overdraft usage fee, and a £6 daily unplanned overdraft usage fee for every day he 
exceeded his £200 overdraft limit. However, in July 2017, Mr S started paying a £7.50 
monthly account fee and, as part of this fee, he was no longer charged the daily unplanned 
overdraft fee.
In addition to this, Mr S was charged daily interest on the overdrawn amount at 9.48% a year 
until 17 March 2017, when it increased to 17.39% a year. Finally, Mr S was also charged 
£15 for standing orders and direct debits that couldnt be paid when there were insufficient 
funds in his account to do so.
Whenever fees were charged, Mr S was provided with a statement breaking down these 
charges and confirming when they would be applied. And, from reviewing Mr Ss bank 
statements from March 2016 to July 2019, I havent seen anything to show me that 
Clydesdale applied these charges incorrectly.
Mr S stopped using the account on 26 February 2019, when it was £190 overdrawn. 
However, because the account remained open, the monthly fees continued to be applied. 
And, by July 2109, the account was £277.74 overdrawn.
Clydesdales case notes show they spoke to Mr S on 25 February 2019 about his overdraft. 
In this call, Mr S told them he would make a payment at the end of that week, to reduce his 
overdraft limit. And Clydesdale confirmed the monthly fees would continue to be charged. Mr 
S contacted Clydesdale again on 2 July 2019, asking to close the account, as he no longer 
used it. Following this, the account was closed.
I havent seen anything to show me that Mr S asked for the account to be closed when he 
spoke to Clydesdale in February 2019, or that he asked for this at any point earlier than 2 
July 2019. Given this, I dont think Clydesdale have done anything wrong by not closing the 
account earlier than they did.  And they didnt do anything wrong by continuing to apply the 
monthly fees until the account was closed, as these were chargeable on open accounts.
After the account was closed, Mr S agreed to repay the overdraft at £50 a month. But he 
didnt make any payments towards this agreement. And, in October 2020, his account was 
passed to a debt collection agency. During this period, Clydesdale notified Mr S of, and 
charged him, a £20 administration fee for the failed repayment plan.
Given the above, and while I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree he should be charged for his 
account and overdraft usage, Im satisfied that Clydesdale could apply these charges. And I 
havent seen anything to show me that these charges were either applied incorrectly, or 
(except for the £20 fee for the failed repayment plan) applied after the account was closed. 
So, I dont think Clydesdale have done anything wrong, and I wont be asking them to reduce 
or waive the fees thatve been charged.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above dont I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman