DRN-2217309
The complaint
The estate of Mrs E (the estate) is represented by its executor, Mr E. Mr E says Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited (trading as Hargreaves Lansdown (HL)) misguided 
the estate on its options in the course of liquidating the late Mrs Es HL account.
What happened
 A summary of the key facts is as follows:
Mrs E unfortunately passed away in early April 2019  Mr E is her son.
On 15 April Mr E says he telephoned HL and asked  what [he] needed to do next 
about her HL account. He thereafter forwarded the death certificate requested by HL.
HL responded on 18 April, with an enclosed Estate Application Pack (EAP), a 
document consisting of around 15 pages divided into different sections for different 
estate management purposes. HL asked, in return, for the original Grant of Probate 
(GoP) for Mrs Es estate and the completed EAP to be submitted. HL also 
highlighted (ticked) specific sections of the EAP for Mr Es attention. In its covering 
letter it explained the reason for this as follows  Weve shown which release forms 
to complete by ticking the relevant boxes on the front cover of the pack.
Probate was granted on 23 August. On 30 August Mr E submitted the GoP and the 
completed EAP to HL, he also highlighted in his covering letter that he had 
completed a particular section of the EAP (on page 4) which instructed HL to 
liquidate the account and to retain the proceeds if there were problems in transferring 
out those proceeds. On the same date he also spoke to HL and registered his 
disappointment that the same section had not been highlighted and brought to his 
attention at the outset, as it could have been used to promptly liquidate the account 
at the time, without having to wait for the GoP  the sale proceeds could have been 
held by HL pending the GoP. 
The disappointment expressed by Mr E is the basis of the estates complaint. He says HL 
ought reasonably to have highlighted the option available on page 4 but did not do so, and 
as a consequence the estate suffered a loss of value in Mrs Es assets given that they could 
have been liquidated at a higher value around April than the value at which they were later 
liquidated (in September)  a difference of around £4,500.
HL accepts that it could have highlighted page 4 of the EAP but it does not consider that it 
committed a wrongdoing by not doing so. It has referred to the following:
An expectation that Mr E would have read the EAP as a whole.
That the sections (the Fund & Share, ISA and Additional Permitted Subscription 
sections) it highlighted were done because they related to the account held by Mrs E.
That it provides an execution only service and it is aware that the option on page 4 
would not apply to every estate management case, so it limited the guidance it gave 
to the sections relevant to Mrs Es account.
That nevertheless, Mr E would have seen that the front page of the EAP twice 
referred to the option on page 4 and to the ability to instruct liquidation (and holding 
of the proceeds) pending GoP.
That as a gesture of goodwill it has offered payment of £50, but it maintains that it 
has done nothing wrong in the matter.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She agreed with HLs position and reasons. 
Mr E did not accept this outcome. He argued that HLs letter in April gave two distinct and 
precise messages  that he had to wait for GoP before liquidating the account and that HL 
had ticked the relevant sections of the EAP that required completion. He said both were 
misleading, as the account could have been liquidated without and pending GoP and page 4 
was a relevant section of the EAP (but was not ticked). He says this led him to consider that 
the other parts of the EAP were irrelevant. He concedes that he did not read them at the 
time, but he says HLs misguidance was responsible for this. 
Mr E asked for a review of the matter and it was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold the complaint and I too agree with HLs position (and its 
reasons). 
I consider that Mr E has presented the estates case sincerely and that he genuinely relied 
upon HLs guidance during the contact between both parties in April 2019. I am also mindful 
that he would have been faced with bereavement at the time, so I agree that it was 
reasonable for him to seek and rely upon guidance from HL. However, I am not persuaded 
that the guidance he received was wrong or negligent.
The guidance Mr E received from HL was inevitably defined by the guidance he sought from 
it. HL provided an execution only service to the account, so it gave no advice and was not 
obliged to. Mr E sought guidance on how to execute the liquidation of the account for the 
benefit of the estate and HLs response was accurate. A GoP was an important requirement 
of the process and the same was the case for the completed EAP; these are the two distinct 
messages Mr E says HL gave him and they were correct; even if the account was liquidated 
pending GoP no proceeds could have been remitted to the estate without GoP.
A crucial element that the estate might have overlooked in the course of the complaint is that 
there appears to be no evidence of any notice to HL in April that the estate sought or 
required an immediate or prompt liquidation of the account. Mr Es submissions refer to this 
being the case  as he witnessed the market values of the accounts assets fluctuate and fall 
at the time  and to his privately held concerns in this respect, but he does not say that he 
expressly put this to or made this concern clear to HL. 
The balance of available evidence is that HL was unaware of any such concern or any such 
desire to liquidate the account immediately or without delay. As such, and as HL has 
explained, it highlighted the basic sections of the EAP that applied to the account but did not 
take it upon itself to suggest anything further  or to highlight page 4  without a reason or 
obligation to do so.
If such notice had been given to HL, the guidance sought from it would have been defined 
differently. Instead of generic guidance on how the estate could liquidate the account for the 
benefit of the estate, it would have been guidance on how to liquidate the account and to do 
so immediately and/or without delay. In this context, the estate would presently have a better argument to support the complaint and to assert that HLs guidance should have included 
reference to page 4 and to the option of liquidating the account (and having HL hold the 
proceeds) pending GoP. However, such context does not apply to the complaint so such an 
argument also cannot reasonably apply.
I do not suggest that HL could not have volunteered information about the option on page 4, 
but given the point addressed above, I am not persuaded that it was required to. In addition, 
and as has been pointed out, notice of this option was stated twice on the front page of the 
EAP and it would have been a reasonable expectation that the EAP would have been 
properly considered by Mr E. At the very least, the first  instructional  page of the EAP 
ought reasonably to have been read and considered. Had that been done, there would have 
been awareness of the option on page 4  it is noteworthy that by the time the EAP was 
completed and returned, Mr E had re-read it and identified the option on page 4 (which he 
exercised). I do not consider that HL can fairly be held responsible for Mr Es omission to 
properly read the first page of the EAP in April 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estate of Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman