DRN-2446197
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two packaged bank
accounts (PBAs). He paid monthly fees for the accounts and received several potential
benefits in return.
Lloyds has accepted that it mis-sold Mr H one of the accounts and has already paid him
some compensation for this. But, as Mr H believes that Lloyds mis-sold him both accounts,
he thinks it should also refund him the fees he paid for the other account, plus interest.
What happened
Mr H has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us its record of his
account history, which is not in dispute. The record shows that:
in April 2003, Mr H opened one of Lloyds fee-free accounts,
in November 2003, Lloyds sold him the first PBA, known as a Select account, which 
replaced his fee-free account, and for which it charged him a monthly fee,
in July 2009, Lloyds sold him the second PBA, known as a Silver account, which 
replaced the Select account, and for which it charged a monthly fee.
I understand that Mr H still has the Silver account.
.
When Mr H complained directly to Lloyds, it accepted that it had mis-sold the Select account
to him. However, Lloyds has told us that it thinks it treated Mr H fairly when it sold him the
Silver account.
I previously sent Mr H and Lloyds a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional 
decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I explained that I 
thought Lloyds had mis-sold the Silver account to Mr H. I invited both parties to send me any 
further comments they wanted to make before I made a final decision.
Both Lloyds and Mr H have told us that they accept my provisional decision with no further 
comment. However, Mr H has told us that he wishes to switch back to one of Lloyds fee-free 
accounts but is finding it difficult to do so. As these discussions are continuing, I have not 
considered any possible implications they may have in this final decision. If Mr H decides to 
complain about these possible difficulties, then, if he has not already done so, he should 
raise his concerns directly with Lloyds in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr H and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive
decided to uphold it. Ive explained why below, but first, I would like to point out that
because both Mr H and Lloyds accepted my provisional decision without further comment, 
my findings are unchanged and much of what follows is very similar indeed to what I said in 
my provisional decision. 
Both parties have said that Lloyds sold the Silver account to Mr H during a meeting at one of
its branches and that Lloyds advised him to buy it. In an advised (or recommended) sale like
this, I would have expected Lloyds to check that the Silver account was a reasonable match
for Mr Hs needs and financial situation, tell him about its benefits and costs clearly and
fairly, and give him a choice about buying it.
Neither party has sent us any detailed notes of what happened during the meeting, which is
not surprising after such a long time has passed, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said or
didnt say to Mr H, or what it considered about his personal situation before it made its
recommendation. So, I have looked at the evidence that I do have to work out what is most
likely to have happened.
In 2009, amongst other things, the main potential benefits of the Silver account included use 
of a car breakdown service, insurance for mobile phones and European travel insurance.
Throughout our investigation into Mr Hs complaint, he has made two main points. Firstly
hes told us that he knew the benefits of the account existed, but didnt want or need them as
he had alternatives in place; and, secondly, hes told us that he only bought the account
because Lloyds advised him during the meeting that he should do so to improve his credit
score and to make it easier for him to get a loan or overdraft. Hes mentioned that at the time
he felt he had a poor credit record and improving his credit score was important to him.
I have considered these two points in turn.
Mr H didnt need the benefits of the account
Mr H has sent us evidence to show that he already had free use of car breakdown
service through his partners work, and hes also sent us a copy of a travel insurance
policy he bought several years after Lloyd sold him the Silver account to show that he
didnt think the insurance which came with the account met his needs.
Lloyds has said that its recommendation was fair and that it was Mr Hs responsibility
to decide what to do about alternative cover. I have some sympathy with its 
comments, but in this particular case Im not convinced by them.
Mr Hs alternative breakdown cover seems to have been a free workplace benefit
through his partners employment and to have been more comprehensive than the
cover that came with the account. And at the time Lloyds sold Mr H the account, he
was about to undergo a serious medical procedure which may well have reduced the
likelihood that he would be able to claim on the travel insurance the account provided,
at least for a while. So, it doesnt seem to me that he needed these two benefits. And
although I havent seen written evidence that he had alternative mobile phone
insurance, I have no reason to doubt his word on this. (Lloyds has pointed out that it
has records which show that during 2012 Mr H registered a phone for the insurance
cover, but I dont think that this registration on its own justified Lloyds recommending
the account to Mr H around three years earlier).
In relation to the travel insurance, Lloyds has told us that it has a record of a later
conversation it had with Mr H about buying a more expensive account which included
worldwide (rather than just European) travel insurance when he was consideringtravelling beyond Europe. It has said that this shows Mr H knew about the travel
insurance. I accept both that the conversation took place and that Mr H knew the 
Silver account offered European travel insurance, but I gather he declined Lloyds 
offer of a more expensive account; and I dont think the conversation shows that Mr H 
wanted the Silver account for its travel insurance.
Furthermore, when Lloyds accepted that it had mis-sold the Select account to Mr H, it
said that the account was inappropriate for him. When it sold him the Silver account,
the only significant difference between the two was that the Silver account included
travel insurance whereas the Select didnt. Lloyds has not shown why it thinks this
difference alone made the Silver account an appropriate match for Mr Hs 
circumstance when it has accepted that the Select account wasnt.
So, it seems to me that Mr H probably didnt want, didnt need and was unlikely to use
the main benefits the Silver account provided. I dont think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend it to him.
Lloyds told Mr H that the Silver account would improve his credit score and the
chances he would get a loan or an overdraft
Firstly, I would like to clarify that I think its unlikely that buying the Silver account
would improve Mr Hs credit score, as the type of account a customer holds does not
usually influence his or her credit worthiness. Lloyds has also told us that buying the
Silver account would not affect its willingness (or otherwise) to arrange a loan or
overdraft for Mr H; and I accept its position on this. However, the crux of Mr Hs
complaint is that he thinks Lloyds misled him into believing the opposite. His testimony 
about this has been clear and consistent throughout the case. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds told Mr H about the fees for the Silver account, and that it let
him know that could have kept the Select account or gone back to a fee-free account.
But for the reasons I have already given, I dont think that he wanted or needed the
potential benefits of the Silver account. So, it certainly seems likely that Lloyds gave 
him some other reason to buy it.
Lloyds has denied it misled Mr H about the possible impact of buying the Silver 
account on his credit score, but has not given us a convincing alternative explanation 
about why Mr H would choose to buy it when he knew he didnt want or need its real 
benefits. So, I think that in this particular case Lloyds probably did mislead Mr H. In 
fairness to Lloyds, I doubt very much that it did this deliberately, but Im satisfied that 
in this instance something went wrong with its usual sales practices. I do not know 
how or why this happened and after so many years have passed, I not will speculate 
on possible causes. This is something for Lloyds to investigate for itself if it so wishes.
So, in summary, I think that it was unfair of Lloyds to recommend the Silver account to Mr H. 
And I think that it probably misled him that buying the account would improve his credit score 
and his chances of getting a loan or overdraft. It follows that Lloyds should put things right 
for Mr H by paying him appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr H, Lloyds should put him into the financial position he would have
been in if it hadnt sold him the Silver account.
.
It should therefore:refund M H all the fees he paid for the Silver account,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr H paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
If Lloyds can show that Mr H gained financially from any banking benefits that came with the
Silver account (for example, over the years, it may have provided savings on an overdraft),
then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation worked out as above. If it
chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mr H, so he can
follow what it has done.
I would also like to add that the compensation Lloyds paid Mr H for mis-selling the Select
account seems to have been fair and so it doesnt owe him any more money back in 
connection with that account.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC 
mis-sold him Silver account. It should now pay him the compensation I have described 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman