DRN-4007159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that the actions of DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited, when handling a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy, caused them to 
miss the limitation date to issue their case in court resulting in it being time barred. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise the key events here. 
In March 2017, Mr and Mrs G made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy to 
pursue action against a company that carried out work to their property. DAS instructed 
solicitors who advised that the claim didnt meet the policy criteria  so it declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, so they brought a complaint to our service. And in September 
2018, our Investigator upheld it. He asked DAS to obtain further advice from a barrister 
which they did. That advice was supportive of the claim  so DAS reinstated cover. 
Mr and Mrs G have now raised a further complaint. They say that during the time their claim 
was unfairly declined by DAS, the limitation date by which they needed to issue their case in 
court had passed. As a result, they say their case is statute barred and cant be pursued. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr and Mrs G were aware of the 
limitation date and it was their responsibility to protect their position. Furthermore, DAS had 
offered to cover the legal fees of drafting a standstill agreement as a gesture of goodwill, 
which Mr and Mrs G declined. 
As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several conflicting legal opinions on the limitation date of this claim. The dates that 
have been raised as possible deadlines were:
May 2017  six years from the date the contract was entered into.
September 2017  six years from the date the work was carried out.
February 2018  six years from the date the work was completed.
Its not particularly important which date is correct in the context of my consideration of this 
complaint. I say that because all the dates were after Mr and Mrs Gs claim had been 
declined by DAS  and before our service had told DAS to reinstate cover.
However, Im not persuaded, on the information available, that DAS is responsible for the 
limitation date being missed  Ill explain why. 
Throughout the dispute with DAS over cover for this claim, Mr and Mrs G have been 
provided with the legal opinions obtained from both solicitors and barristers. These opinions 
have highlighted the possible limitation dates to Mr and Mrs G (as listed above), and DAS 
has informed them of the importance of not missing the deadline and the consequences of 
doing so. 
Ultimately, its Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility to protect their position in relation to their claim. 
They were aware that DAS had declined cover  whether rightly or wrongly  and they knew 
DAS werent taking any steps on the claim which would prevent it from being time barred, 
such as issuing court proceedings. Whilst our service did later conclude that DAS should 
reinstate cover, Im not persuaded that means DAS are responsible for Mr and Mrs Gs 
failure to take action on their claim during a time when they knew policy cover wasnt in 
place. This inaction has prejudiced the position of the claim.
Im aware that in February 2018, six days prior to the barristers suggested limitation date, 
DAS said that given the gravity of the time restrictions and as a gesture of goodwill it would 
instruct B to draft the standstill agreement with a cover letter and provide legal advice to Mr 
and Mrs G to enable them to protect their position. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G 
declined this offer.
I appreciate that limitation may well have already been missed by this time. And even if it 
hadnt, theres no guarantee that a standstill agreement wouldve been accepted by the 
defendant company. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, it wasnt DAS responsibility 
to ensure limitation was complied with. So overall, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable 
basis upon which I could tell DAS it needs to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman