DRN-1600541
The complaint
Mr L complains about the poor service and incorrect information he received from Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) when he discussed how much he would able to borrow if he 
moved home. 
In order to put matters right Mr L wants Halifax to waive the early repayment charge (ERC) 
he will incur if he redeems his mortgage with Halifax during the early repayment period.
What happened
Mr L holds a mortgage with the Halifax. The mortgage product he holds has an early 
repayment charge (ERC) attached to it. If Mr L redeems his mortgage product before the 
end of January 2023 he will incur an ERC.
In late 2019 Mr L discussed taking out a new mortgage with Halifax and porting his mortgage 
product to a new property. He was initially told that he would be able to borrow up to 90% of 
the property purchase price. However, two days later when Mr L spoke to Halifax again, he 
was told he would only be able to borrow up to 65% of the property purchase price. 
Due to an error on Halifaxs part when it first discussed the amount Mr L could borrow it did 
not tell him that the amount it was willing to lend could change if new information came to 
light about Mr Ls financial circumstances. 
Mr L complained to Halifax. He said he couldnt raise a 35% deposit. He said that if he 
wanted to move home he would have to approach another lender in order to borrow the 
amount he required. But if he redeemed his mortgage with Halifax he would incur an ERC. 
Mr L said he felt Halifax should waive the ERC that would be payable if he redeemed his 
mortgage with it.
Halifax apologised for the poor service Mr L had received. It appears that it also gave Mr L 
incorrect information about whether the ERC would apply to the further advance he had 
taken out as well as his original mortgage loan. To compensate Mr L for its poor service 
Halifax paid him £300. But it said it wasnt willing to waive the ERC that would be payable if 
Mr L redeemed his mortgage during the early repayment period.
It noted that Mr L had asked it to explain why it had reduced the loan to value (LTV) it was 
willing to agree. It noted that it was under no obligation to provide any customer with 
specific details as to why a mortgage application credit score has changed relative to the 
business tendering checks that have been completed. This is our right as a lender and I 
have confirmed it is it as there was more unsecured debt than you initially made us aware of 
and this can contribute to your credit scoring.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and referred his complaint to this service. Mr L 
said:
I was advised they would give me a mortgage requiring I0% deposit. I have this in writing. I 
then phoned up and found out by chance (they didnt advise me) that this had changed to 
requiring 35% deposit. I was not told (and Halifax have confirmed this having listened to the 
call) that their decision could change. I am not able to pay 35% deposit and therefore am 
forced to move to another lender to proceed with my house as a result of Halifax's negligent 
advice. 
Our investigator said he thought the £300 Halifax had paid Mr L to compensate him for its 
poor service was fair and he said he didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve this 
complaint. 
He said he felt Halifax could have managed Mr Ls expectation much better than it had. He 
agreed that it should have clearly explained at the outset that the amount it was willing to 
lend could change if new information came to light. But he said he felt the £300 Halifax had 
paid Mr L was reasonable for the loss of expectation that he had suffered.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with our investigators response. He said he felt the investigator had 
only considered the issues relating to the poor service he received, his credit score and the 
decrease in the loan to value Halifax was willing to agree.
He said he the representative he had spoken to had told him to go out and find a property, 
without mentioning the deposit amount could change. Mr L said: This mistake is going to 
cost me £5k, therefore £300 compensation is totally inadequate.
Mr L also raised several points in relation to what he felt were breaches of GDPR 
requirements. He said he felt Halifax was required to explain its decision to reduce the loan 
to value it was willing to agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all the points Mr L has made. Having done so I cant reasonably 
require Halifax to waive the ERC that will be payable if Mr L redeems his mortgage during 
the early repayment period. Ill explain why.
Halifax accepts that its representative didnt explain that the loan to value it was prepared to 
agree could change if new information became available about Mr Ls circumstances. It has 
paid Mr L £300 for the trouble and upset its poor service caused.
Mr L says that this mistake on Halifax part is going to cost me £5k, therefore £300 
compensation is totally inadequate. 
I dont agree that Halifaxs failure to explain that the maximum loan to value it would agree 
could change if it became aware of new information about Mr Ls financial situation will cost 
Mr L £5,000.
Mr L will only incur the ERC if he chooses to redeem his Halifax mortgage during the early 
repayment period. If he decides not to move, or if he moves and the new loan he requires 
meets Halifaxs lending criteria he will be able to port his mortgage product and wont incur 
an ERC.
I appreciate that Mr L wants to move home and feels that Halifax should either waive the 
ERC he will incur, or agree to lend the in line with the loan to value ratio initially discussed. 
But all lenders are required, by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to 
ensure that any lending agreed is affordable both at the time it is agree and for the foreseeable future. In Mr Ls case it appears that when his application was reviewed more 
unsecured debt than had initially been disclosed to Halifax came to light. When considering 
how much it was willing to lend Halifax, like all lenders, is required to take into account other 
borrowing a customer has.
As Mr L had more unsecured borrowing that Halifax had initially been made aware of, it 
reduced the loan to value it was willing to agree. I dont think this was unfair or 
unreasonable.
I note that Mr L says he feels Halifax has not complied with GDPR requirements. This 
services remit does not include determining if a business has breached data protection 
laws. That is for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. If Mr L would like to 
pursue the points he made in relation to GDPR requirements he may wish to contact the IOC 
about his concerns.
In relation the comments Mr L had made about what he feels is Halifaxs failure to explain 
why it reduced the LTV it was willing to agree, as our investigator explained lenders are not 
required to disclose detailed information about their lending criteria. However, I note that 
Halifax did explain that it reduced the amount it was willing to lend as there was more 
unsecured debt than you initially made us aware of and this can contribute to your credit 
scoring. In view of this I think Halifax did tell Mr L why it wasnt willing to lend as much as it 
had initially indicated it would be prepared to lend.
I appreciate that this is not the decision Mr L was hoping for. But I cant reasonably say that 
Halifax should waive the ERC that will be payable if he chooses to redeem his mortgage 
during the early repayment period. Halifax has paid Mr L £300 for its failure to make clear 
that the loan to value it was willing to agree could change if new information came light. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman