DRN-2157836
The complaint
Mr S complains that a payment he made towards his credit card debt with TSB Bank plc was
used to pay off the wrong balance transfer, so he was left paying interest on the other, when
he shouldnt have been charged this.
What happened
Mr S had two balance transfers on his card which were on interest free offers. These offers
were for different time periods, so the interest free offer on the second transfer hed made
actually expired before the interest free offer on the first transfer. Mr S wanted to pay off the
second balance transfer, so it didnt accrue any interest. He said he spoke to TSB, and it told
him how to do that. So he paid. But TSB paid off the first balance transfer instead, which
meant Mr S started to be charged interest on the first one.
Mr S said he complained to TSB about this, and it apologised. It said it wouldnt charge
interest, but it kept charging him until he cleared the card, when the first interest free offer
was due to expire. Mr S told us he raised this with TSB again, and it said his complaint
would have to be reopened. It said it would take about a year to look at it.
TSB said it had given Mr S wrong advice on the phone, because it had told him that any
payment he made would be used to clear the second transfer, when it would be used to
clear the first. It said it had offered to pay back the interest he was charged. But it said it
couldnt have worked out his total refund until he stopped being charged interest on the first
balance transfer. That only happened recently, when he paid off the card.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said TSB had paid
compensation, and had agreed to pay the interest that Mr S was overcharged. He thought
that was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the payment TSB had made was fine for the initial complaint, but
he thought he should get more compensation for the time hed spent after this. Mr S said
hed tried to get the interest refund that TSB offered him, but hed been passed from one
department to the next, and he felt TSB needed a push. He wanted his complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
TSB has said it did the right thing by applying the payment Mr S made to a balance 
transfer which wasnt expiring for several months, rather than the one which was just 
about to expire, although it hasnt shown our service any terms and conditions to 
support this policy. I think if this is TSBs policy, then when Mr S spoke to TSB, he 
ought to have been very clearly warned about the impact of the payment he was 
about to make. TSB has accepted it didnt warn him, and the money he paid wasnt 
used to pay off the transfer which was about to expire. I agree that TSB ought not to 
have charged Mr S interest after this.
TSB told us it paid Mr S £150, but its letter of apology and other documents say  
£100. On the evidence Ive seen to date, I think its more likely that TSB only paid 
£100. It paid that to say sorry for what had gone wrong. And TSB said if Mr S 
contacted it after his next statement was received, it would look into refunding 
interest hed incurred as a result of this issue.
Mr S was charged interest, which TSB said he shouldnt have had to pay, from 1  
March2019 until 6 October 2019. I dont think it was a practical solution to suggest 
that Mr S should ring TSB each time he received a statement, and ask for the money 
back. I also note Mr S said hed tried this, and just got passed from one department 
to another.
Although TSB apologised and paid compensation for what it accepted was its 
mistake in March, it didnt do anything about the interest he was wrongly being 
charged. It didnt even take any steps, when it issued its letter of apology to Mr S in 
March, to refund the interest it had already wrongly charged him for that month.
I dont think it shouldve been necessary for Mr S to keep complaining to get this 
money back. I think TSB should pay £100 more in compensation now, to make up for 
this. I also think that TSB should pay Mr S the interest it accepts it owes him, which is 
£208.12. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr S £100 in compensation, in addition to 
the £100 it has already paid, and to refund £208.12 in wrongly charged interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman