DRN-4433214
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down her buildings 
insurance claim. Shes also unhappy about the delays with her claim. 
What happened
Mrs G holds buildings insurance cover with Ageas. In September 2020 she made a claim 
and said thered been a water leak from a bedroom radiator, and that this had caused 
damage to flooring, walls and tiles. 
The claim didnt progress much for nearly three years. In June 2023, Ageas loss adjusters 
carried out an inspection. Ageas then turned down the claim as it didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to support a water leak had happened, and also said it had been 
prejudiced because of the delays. Unhappy with this, Mrs G brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Ageas claims 
decision had been reasonable, and didnt think it was responsible for any delays with 
progressing the claim. 
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage from certain events (known as insured perils), including water 
leaks from a tank, pipes, drains or heating system.
Mrs G initially said she didnt want people in her home, and so she would obtain her own 
quotes for repairs. Though she didnt do so (apart from an estimate for a replacement carpet, 
which was less than the excess). Mrs G did provide Ageas with a photo of a damaged wall 
and carpet, though Ageas thought the wall had been damaged over some time.
Mrs G later told Ageas she had hired her own loss assessor to manage the claim, and he 
had estimated the repairs would cost around £40,000. Ageas requested a full report from her 
loss assessor, and explained it would then appoint its own loss adjuster to validate the claim. 
Given the costs involved here, that wasnt unreasonable. An insurer is entitled to be able to 
validate a claim, However, Ageas didnt receive any information from Mrs Gs loss assessor, 
despite reminding her it was waiting for this.
Ageas then didnt hear from Mrs G for over a year. She explained shed been in poor health 
and so hadnt been able to progress matters. As Mrs G still hadnt provided Ageas with a 
report from her loss assessor, it said it wanted to carry out its own inspection. Again, I think 
that was reasonable. Ageas didnt have sufficient evidence at this point to show that an 
insured peril had occurred.
Ageas loss adjusters made several appointments over the following months to carry out an 
inspection, but Mrs G cancelled them all. 
At that point, Ageas advised Mrs G that the claim would be closed unless it could carry out 
an inspection. I think that was reasonable. Over two years had passed since the claim had 
been made, and Mrs G hadnt provided evidence to support the claim was payable and 
hadnt allowed Ageas access to her home to carry out its own inspection. 
Mrs G was unhappy about Ageas decision to close the claim, and therefore allowed Ageas 
loss adjusters to visit the property in June 2023.
In respect of the delays, I recognise that Mrs G has health conditions, and there were 
periods where she wasnt allowing anyone to enter her home because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, she told Ageas in 2021 that she was allowing people back into her 
home at that point. Ageas could have assessed the claim at that point, but Mrs G told Ageas 
that she had appointed a loss assessor to deal with the claim on her behalf and would send 
it his report. 
I also note that Ageas loss adjuster had offered to meet with a family member or friend at 
the property (given Mrs Gs health problems), but Mrs G couldnt arrange this. Though Im 
not sure why this couldnt be arranged, given that other adults lived at the property. Overall, 
whilst I think Ageas could have contacted Mrs G more often to see if she still wanted to 
continue with the claim, I dont find that Ageas was responsible for the delays.
Ive therefore considered the available evidence to decide if Ageas decision to turn down the 
claim itself was reasonable. 
Ive read Ageas loss adjuster report. I understand the inspection was carried out by a 
chartered surveyor. He said that Mrs G wouldnt allow him to access the bedroom where the 
leak had apparently originated, and she said she had thrown out the radiator. He carried out 
an inspection of the kitchen, which was below the bedroom, but found no evidence of historic 
water damage to the ceiling. There was staining within the kitchen, but he thought this was 
due to condensation (and it was on the opposite side of the kitchen to where the leak had 
apparently happened). The surveyor did note that the kitchen sink and base unit had 
collapsed, but thought this was due to the failure of seals around the sink rather than a water 
leak.
Mrs G told the surveyor that three weeks after the radiator leak, water had come through the 
living room ceiling. The surveyor noted there was a crack to the plasterboard ceiling in the 
living room and some staining. He thought this would suggest there had been an escape of 
water at some point. However, he didnt think this was related to the radiator leak, given the 
distance between this and where the radiator was apparently located. He also noted there 
was mould growth on the living room walls, which he thought was a condensation issue.
Ive also looked at the photo of the wall that Mrs G sent Ageas shortly after making the claim. 
This appears to show significant mould growth above a radiator. I assume this was in the 
bedroom that Mrs G wouldnt allow to be inspected. I think it was reasonable for Ageas to 
say this damage appears to have happened over a long time. Its also not clear to me why 
there would be significant mould above the radiator, when the water was apparently 
escaping to the rooms below and was fixed within a few days. Overall, Im satisfied that Ageas decision to turn down the claim was reasonable. Mrs G 
hasnt provided sufficient evidence to show that an insured peril occurred, and Ageas loss 
adjusters found no evidence of historic water damage. I agree with Ageas that the delays 
caused by Mrs G (and her decision to throw out the defective radiator) likely prejudiced its 
position as it cant now establish if a leak happened. 
Mrs G had some concerns about Ageas loss adjuster who visited her property, and said he 
was very rude and came across as judgemental. Ageas raised this with the loss adjusters as 
Id expect, and they disputed Mrs Gs allegations. I dont have sufficient evidence here to 
conclude that the loss adjuster was rude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman