DRN-4496112
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society cant send him emails and they have 
provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr K says that he has been receiving postal correspondence from Nationwide telling him 
they could not contact him via the email address which they had for him since he opened his 
account. He says his statements that Nationwide try and email him bounce bank.  Mr K says 
he spoke to Nationwide on the phone on 31 October 2022 where they promised to look into 
this for him, but he didnt hear anything until he received a similar letter roughly six months 
later. Mr K made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said emails are not making it to Mr K 
based on him having a role-based prefix and these are disabled by default and not sent to 
reduce spamming concerns. They said if Mr K uses a different prefix or if he uses a generic 
email provider then this will resolve the issue. Nationwide said although they appreciated he 
was the only person with access to his current email, they wouldnt look to use this email, 
and this is their final decision for security purposes. They said they listened to the call on 31 
October 2022, and the call handler confirmed she would transfer him to their head office 
team, but the phone was cut off. They said they hadnt been able to evidence any further 
phone calls where they said theyd look into the matter or register a complaint. Mr K brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said that Nationwide did not come 
back to Mr K following his call with them in October 2022 and they wrote to him in March 
2023 stating that they were still having trouble emailing him. She said that in that time she 
had seen no evidence that Mr K reached out to them about the issue, and it appears that 
there was little to no impact as Nationwide still contacted him by post. Our investigator said 
Mr K then made a complaint to Nationwide about the issue in March 2023 after receiving 
another letter from them stating that they were unable to contact him by email and they 
investigated this, and they told him of workarounds for the issue. 
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that none of the postal 
letters that Nationwide sent him informed him of what the communication problem was (due 
to the format of his email address). So if they didnt tell him in writing or when he contacted 
them in October 2022 how could he understand what the problem was. He said he didnt 
chase them up as he was waiting for a response from Nationwide and based on what was 
agreed in the telephone call there was a reasonable expectation that they would either 
respond that they couldnt do anything or that they would fix the email issue. It was only after 
receiving further letters saying they couldnt contact him that it was apparent they hadnt 
even reviewed the issue. Mr K said that he opened the account using the same email 
address which now they say they cant contact him with. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr K that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to change 
their security procedures such as what email addresses they should disable. It would be the 
role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Nationwide to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive can sympathise with what Mr K has said about Nationwide allowing him to use the email 
address originally when he opened the account, but they wont send correspondence to the 
same email address. But as this relates to their account opening process, which is a 
commercial decision for them to make, Ive looked at what happened when Nationwide sent 
Mr K letters about not being able to email him. 
Ive viewed one of these letters. The letter sets out that a recent email they tried to send Mr 
K couldnt reach him for some reason. It gives Mr K two things that he may wish to check to 
make sure he can receive emails in the future. One of these is to make sure his mailbox isnt 
too full, and the other one is to check the settings for his inbox as his email provider may 
think they are sending spam. The letter says once he has done these things they should be 
able to start emailing him again to let him know when his statements are ready. But this did 
not fix the issue.
So Mr K contacted Nationwide to ask about this on 31 October 2022. He spoke to a call 
handler who said that it was bizarre when he confirmed the same email address she had on 
their system. As the call handler worked in a branch and she couldnt access the systems, 
she transferred Mr K to their head office for them to look into this. 
Ive read the transcript of this call. The transcript shows the call handler telling Mr K It's the 
system's issue rather than anything that I can do with. But if you're happy, leave it with me. 
I'll send it through them and work with them to get response, and they'll get back to you. So 
the call handler set an expectation that he would send the issue to the relevant team and 
that he would work with them to get a response. It is clear Mr K was told that theyll get back 
to you. 
But Ive seen no evidence that Nationwide got in touch with Mr K until he received another 
letter dated 21 March 2023 telling him they were having trouble reaching him by email again. 
There was no reference to the outcome of the investigation that they did for Mr K  if they did 
an investigation at all. And while I appreciate this is likely to be an automated letter issued 
when an email couldnt be sent to Mr Ks email address, this letter will have distressed Mr K 
when there was no reference to the investigation, and he received the same letter from them 
as normal. 
This inconvenienced Mr K to have to ring up Nationwide to chase this up via a complaint. Im 
not persuaded that because Mr K allowed Nationwide time to complete an investigation that 
this means what happened had no impact on him. It clearly did have an impact on him 
otherwise he wouldnt have rung them to discuss the issue, and Nationwide set a clear 
expectation that they would look into this  and more importantly get in touch with him. So 
when Mr K received this letter after months of not hearing anything, it would have been 
distressing to find out that apparently no investigation had taken place, or at the very least 
he hadnt been contacted as he was told theyll get back to him.
So I do think that Nationwide should pay Mr K compensation for letting him down here by not 
honouring what they told him. As Ive mentioned before, Im unable to ask them to now 
accept Mr Ks email address. If he doesnt want to change this, then he is now aware of the 
reasons why he wont be able to receive emails from Nationwide and he might want to consider paper communication.
Im persuaded that £75 is proportionate for the impact that this had on Mr K. Nationwide set 
him an expectation they would get back to him, but they didnt even though months had 
passed, which would have been distressing. Then Mr K needed to contact them again after 
receiving the letter in March 2023, which would have inconvenienced him. So it follows I 
intend to ask Nationwide to put things right for Mr K. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr K £75 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied 
this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr K £75 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman