DRN-3558200
The complaint
Mr H complains that Motability Operations Limited (MO) didnt collect his vehicle in a timely 
way after it experienced issues. He wants a refund for the three months he wasnt able to 
use the vehicle.
What happened
Mr H entered into a hire agreement with MO in August 2020. In December 2021 he 
contacted MO because his vehicle needed repairs.
MO issued its final response letter in February 2022. It said that Mr H contacted it on 6 
December 2021 about issues with his vehicle saying that the dealership couldnt get the 
repairs done until March 2022 and that a suitable replacement hire car wasnt being 
provided. A complaint was raised and due to the delays in getting Mr Hs vehicle inspected it 
was agreed that his agreement could be cancelled early. MO requested that a suitable 
vehicle was provided for Mr H but explained that it wasnt required to offer hire vehicles and 
when it did these were subject to availability. When it couldnt provide a hire vehicle that met 
its customers needs it had other options such as pre-paid taxis or if the car was being 
repaired for more than three days, loss of use payments. It said that despite the other 
options available, Mr H wouldnt release his vehicle until a suitable replacement hire vehicle 
was provided. It said that given its attempts to assist Mr H in terms of onward mobility and 
getting the vehicle to the dealership its offer to refund half of the allowance was reasonable. 
MO said Mr Hs agreement had been cancelled as agreed and it would continue to support 
him in the current hire vehicle until his new scheme vehicle was available for handover. It 
said the payment of £330.63 would be issued for the stress and inconvenience caused 
through this complaint.
Our investigator said that MOs notes showed it had been in contact with the relevant parties 
about trying to arrange the collection of Mr Hs vehicle and a suitable hire vehicle. He noted 
that MO wasnt obliged to provide a replacement hire vehicle and he thought it had acted 
fairly by the actions it had taken to try to assist Mr H. He said that as the car remained with 
Mr H for the three months and he was able to use it in certain circumstances the payment of 
half the three months loss of use amount was reasonable. 
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt accept the evidence our investigator had noted from MOs 
contact notes and said our investigator had contradicted himself. He said that he had to 
resolve the situation and that the hire vehicle was only requested on 14 February and the 
collection on arranged for 18 February 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating Mr H has found his experience after he reported issues with his 
vehicle and I note the numerous calls between him and various parties. However, I must 
consider the responsibilities of MO and the actions it took in order to assess whether it has 
acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr H contacted MO in November 2021 about cancelling his agreement because he was 
finding the vehicle he had too small. He was told about the £50 cancellation fee. He then 
contacted MO in December 2021 about issues with the indicator stick and gearbox and he 
was told the vehicle would need to be inspected and that it could arrange for the car to be 
collected. Mr H explained he had called about this and been told there were no suitable hire 
cars and he couldnt be without a vehicle. While I understand the situation Mr H was in and 
his need for a suitable replacement vehicle MO has explained it wasnt its responsibility to 
provide this and when agreed it was dependent on availability.
During December 2021, MO contacted the relevant parties and found that alternative hire 
vehicles had been offered to Mr H but he had refused these as not being suitable. Due to the 
delays in being able to get Mr Hs vehicle fixed it was agreed his agreement would be 
cancelled and the cancellation fee and advance payment refunded and that his request for a 
larger vehicle would be reflected in the hire vehicle request. I find that this was a reasonable 
response to this issue.
Over the next few weeks, further issues arose but I can see that MO was in contact with the 
relevant parties to try to get the hire vehicle Mr H had requested so that his vehicle could be 
taken for repair. I appreciate that Mr H wasnt provided with a vehicle he considered suitable, 
but I also note that he was told about other options such as taxis and loss of use payments. 
Therefore, in this case while I appreciate Mr H spent time trying to get a suitable resolution, I 
find that MO was working with the other parties to try to assist Mr H.
Mr H was provided with a suitable hire vehicle in February 2022 and following this his vehicle 
was collected for repairs. I note Mr Hs comments about him having to arrange this and the 
evidence he was provided about the arrangement. However, I also have taken into account 
the evidence provided by MO in its contact notes and the call recordings and these show 
that it was trying to find a resolution for Mr H in the lead up to February 2022.
Mr H has said he should be refunded three months of payments for loss of use due to the 
delays in his car being collected. MO has refunded half of this amount. I understand why 
Mr H doesnt think this is fair. But as Mr H still had the car until it was collected in February 
2022 and has said this was used - albeit in very limited circumstances such as emergencies 
- I accept that the full loss of use payments isnt required. 
So, while I appreciate this experience has been frustrating and distressing for Mr H, I find 
that MO has tried to assist Mr H and I find the actions it has taken including the refund of half 
of the payments for the time he had limited use of his vehicle reasonable.
Mr H has raised a further complaint about the amount he is paying for the hire vehicle, but it 
has been explained that this would need to be raised separately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Motability Operations Limited to do anything beyond 
that which has already been offered in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman