DRN-4474523
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In spring 2022, Mr A received over £3,000 into his Monzo account. It came from a victim of 
crime whod been defrauded into paying Mr A. Mr A then forwarded the money onto another 
account of his.
Monzo closed Mr As account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
In 2023, Mr A complained. He said the money came from a relative in the USA who was 
helping him with his living costs, and also that it was money hed received in exchange for 
some foreign currency hed sent. He said he was unable to provide any evidence of this.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Monzo were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Monzo did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
To clarify, this decision is not a judgement of Mr As character. While Ive read everything 
that Mr A sent us about his character, education, and career, my decision is based on the 
objective evidence at hand and the balance of probabilities.
Monzo received an official report that the money Mr A received did not come from a relative 
or a currency exchange, but from a victim of crime whod been defrauded into paying Mr A.
Mr A quickly forwarded the fraudulent money onto another account of his, in a way which 
meant that it could not be easily recovered by Monzo. As far as I can see, Mr A is the only 
party who benefitted from the fraud.
Mr A had also been receiving and forwarding on other credits in a similar manner, including 
previous payments which had been flagged as suspicious. He did not receive any regular 
salary or benefits into this account, nor pay any regular direct debits from it. His activity is 
consistent with someone who was either involved in the fraud or acting as a money mule.
Mr A said that the money was from his relative in the USA to help with his living costs, or that 
it was money hed exchanged. But the money wasnt from an individual in the USA and had 
not been exchanged; it was from a UK company which had been defrauded into paying 
Mr A. I cant see anything which links the company to any relative of Mr As, nor anything 
which would make Mr A reasonably think this was a payment from his relative. And Mr A has 
been unable to provide any evidence at all to back up his version of events, even when it 
would be simple for him to ask his relative to get in touch as our investigator suggested he 
do. I also have no evidence that he ever exchanged this currency. Theres no corresponding 
outwards payment before he received the fraudulent funds. Indeed, Mr As balance was just 
£0.08 before he took in the fraudulent credit, and generally remained low.
In summary, Mr A received and forwarded on fraudulent funds, which would count as 
misusing his account. His actions are consistent with him being a knowing participant in the 
fraud  indeed, Mr A appears to be the main beneficiary of the fraud. Hes claimed 
entitlement to the money but has been unable to provide any evidence of entitlement, even 
when such evidence should be straightforward to provide. The available evidence all points 
to Mr A being knowingly involved in the fraud, and Ive not been given any evidence which 
shows or substantiates that he was an unknowing or unwitting participant.
So it seems fair that Monzo closed Mr As account and registered the appropriate marker 
with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr A to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman