DRN-2246488
The complaint
Mr C complains that Equifax Limited breached his data protection rights and allowed 
unlawful searches of his credit records to be made. He wants compensation.
 
What happened
Mr C tells that in January 2020 he noticed that his credit file had been searched without his 
authority during the previous month. He said that two businesses which Ill refer to as H 
and A had conducted these searches. And that he had no commercial relationship with 
either business. Mr C has said that he believes the searches arose after his personal 
information had been unlawfully obtained following a breach of data protection which Equifax 
had admitted had occurred in 2017.
Equifax told us that as a credit reference agency it held information which had been provided 
to it by financial businesses. But it explained it was the businesses that owned the 
information. It said that two soft searches had been carried out by H and A. It said these 
would not be visible to other businesses and wouldnt impact upon Mr Cs credit rating. And 
that after Mr C had complained it had raised the dispute issue with both of those businesses. 
As A didnt reply it had removed the entry in accordance with the usual processes. It said H 
had replied and confirmed the accuracy of the entry. And so it didnt remove it at that stage. 
Later, it said H had agreed to the removal of the information and it (Equifax) had processed 
this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
information that Equifax holds is provided by other companies. And that if Mr C remained 
dissatisfied with H and A completing a search of his credit file he could complain to those 
businesses. He felt Equifax had acted fairly. And noted that within a few days of Mr Cs 
complaint it had raised a dispute with both businesses. He confirmed that it had 
subsequently removed both searches from Mr Cs credit record.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. He said that Equifax had now removed the record of the 
searches but had only done so after six requests. He felt he was due compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C would be concerned if his personal information had been 
accessed without his authority. And Im aware he made a previous complaint relating to H in 
2015.
I need to emphasise that Im only looking at the actions of Equifax. And in order to do this its 
important that I concentrate on what role Equifax has played in the circumstances about 
which Mr C now complains.
It isnt in dispute that in December 2019 two soft searches were carried out on Mr Cs credit 
file. Equifax has explained that upon receipt of Mr Cs complaint it had raised a dispute with 
both H and A, the companies that had carried out the searches. When A didnt reply Equifax 
followed its process and removed details of the search. H replied and asserted the entry was 
correct. And so Equifax didnt at that stage remove the record of the search. But it did take 
up the matter with H again. And it later notified Mr C that H had now agreed to the removal 
of the information. Equifax confirmed that it had processed this.
Im aware that Mr C made repeated requests before all the information was removed. But 
this delay was due to Equifax not immediately being given permission by H to take such 
action. I dont find that Equifax did anything wrong in waiting until it had received Hs consent 
before removing details of the search.
Im aware from comments made to our investigator that Mr C doesnt agree that Equifax 
simply holds and reports information that other businesses provide. Whilst Mr C is entitled to 
his opinion, its not one that Im aware is supported by any information with which Ive been 
supplied.
And where theres a dispute of facts, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Soft searches can be carried out by businesses for a number of reasons, but the essential 
point is that it was H and A who carried out the respective searches. In terms of the 
circumstances of this complaint I find that the role played by Equifax was solely to collect 
and report the information with which it had been supplied. And Ive seen no information that 
leads me to believe that it did anything wrong in that process. Or that the details it reported 
were inaccurate.
Nor have I seen anything which shows that the searches about which Mr C complains arose 
from an earlier breach of its systems which Equifax accepts happened in 2017. Although I 
should also explain that its not for me to determine if a breach of data protection laws has 
occurred. Any complaint that Mr C feels he may have against H or A regarding the 
lawfulness of the searches would need to be taken up with those businesses. 
In summary, I find that Equifax has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and in a timely manner. 
It raised disputes with the relevant businesses within a few days of receiving his complaint. 
And it took action to remove the record of searches when that became appropriate. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman