DRN-2863091
The complaint
Ms N has complained about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU). She isnt happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her light goods vehicle 
insurance policy following a breakdown.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as NFU are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to it in this decision.
What happened
In May 2021 I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. This forms part of my final decision which Ive summarised below.
Ms N used the breakdown part of her NFU policy in June 2018 as her vehicle had broken-
down.
The patrolman identified that the battery needed replacing as it didnt have enough power to 
start the vehicle and so Ms N paid to replace the battery which came with a 5-year warranty.
Unfortunately, Ms N still had issues with the vehicle which may have related to the battery 
after this. Ms N notified NFU about the ongoing difficulties and it attended again in May 
2019. The patrolman gave her some advice and she bought a battery charger. But as 
problems persisted Ms N got her vehicle checked over by a main dealership. The garage 
identified another problem with the vehicle which, once rectified, seemed to fix the problem 
for a short period of time.
However, Ms N had another problem with her vehicle in January 2020 and the same patrol 
man attended from 2018. The battery was tested again, and it was concluded that it needed 
replacing due to a similar problem to the one Ms N had in 2018. The patrolman suggested 
this would be free of charge because of the warranty. But she was later told that the battery 
wasnt free and that she would have to pay again for the new battery. Ms N didnt think this 
was fair and said that she would simply have got the battery recharged if she had known 
this. But NFU maintained that the warranty didnt cover the battery as it had gone below the 
minimum charge available  suggesting that there were other impacting factors regarding 
the batterys failure to charge.
Ms Ns vehicle broke-down again and it was deemed necessary to replace the battery again 
for similar reasons. Given what had happened before Ms N made sure it was agreed the 
replacement would be free. And although she wasnt charged, she was again told that in fact 
she shouldnt have had a free battery for the same reasons as before. The battery that was 
fitted this time was in fact bigger and more expensive than the original battery she bought.
But Ms N remained unhappy that she had to pay for the first replacement battery, so she 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her 
complaint. Although he accepted that NFU didnt provide the correct advice in the first place 
and that Ms N may have chosen to keep the battery in 2018 but he was of the view that NFU 
had acted reasonably as it went on to provide a second, bigger and more expensive battery, 
at a later stage. So, in effect, he was of the view that NFU had acted reasonably as it hadnt 
charged her for the second more expensive battery.
As Ms N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
For completeness Ill just clarify that Im not looking at the warranty that was provided as that 
isnt an insurance product and cant be looked at by this service. But I will focus on the poor 
service that was given by NFUs agent and whether the action it took to put things right was 
fair.
I accept Ms N was given incorrect advice about her replacement battery in January 2020  
she was clearly told that it wouldnt cost her anything to replace the battery. And Ms N has 
said that she wouldve continued with this battery if that was the case and just got it charged 
as required. And while I accept Ms Ns point her NFU policy says that she must replace parts 
that are failing, including the battery, as soon as possible after the discovery of a defect. And 
so I think Ms N would have had to replace the battery to remain on cover - although I accept 
that she may have chosen to go somewhere cheaper or to the main dealership had she 
have known there would be a cost.
NFU went on to replace the battery again for free with a bigger more expensive battery a few 
months later. And while I accept that it wasnt obliged to do this under the warranty I dont 
think this goes far enough. Ive not considered the warranty issue of the battery as NFU 
didnt provide this, but I do think that NFU should do a little more here to put things right. 
I say this as Ms N was put to unnecessary stress and inconvenience in advancing all of this 
and the poor advice must have left her frustrated. And while I do agree that she was given a 
bigger and more expensive battery I havent been provided with any evidence to say that 
she shouldnt have got this in the first instance. And I think its likely that she would have 
shopped around at that stage and got a more competitive price if she had been advised 
properly at that stage given the warranty hadnt panned out as she would have thought.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for NFU to pay Ms N £100 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Replies
Ms N didnt respond while NFU restated its position. It explained again that it had delegated 
authority to deal with this complaint and re-sent the details in relation to the battery warranty.
NFU said that the battery wasnt covered under the warranty or free, but it says a decision 
was taken at a later stage to offer a free battery as a gesture of goodwill. As such NFU 
doesnt feel that Ms N has suffered any inconvenience by the advice given as she made 
informed choices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I havent been provided with any information that persuades me to change 
my mind. I know NFU wont be happy about this, but Ill explain why.
Ultimately, although NFU doesnt agree I think that Ms N was put to unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience in advancing all of this. NFU feels that she wasnt given poor advice, but Im 
satisfied from what she has told us, and the details outlined in the warranty, that she was. 
Furthermore, I havent been provided with any evidence to say that she shouldnt have been 
provided with the bigger battery in the first instance. 
As such, I think that Ms N would have shopped around and gained a more competitive price 
than the one she faced at the roadside. And so, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, is for NFU to pay her £100 compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. And I require The 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Ms N £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman