DRN-4149068
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct) wont refund the 
money he lost as a result of a scam. 
Mr W has used a professional representative to bring this complaint to our service and they 
have made submissions on his behalf. For consistency, Ill refer to Mr W throughout.
What happened
Mr W fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam and was tricked into making five faster 
payments totalling £20,010 from his First Direct current account to an account he held at a 
cryptocurrency platform (that Ill call C). From there, Mr W converted his funds into 
cryptocurrency and sent it on to a scammer, purporting to be a broker working for an 
investment firm that Ill call N. From here on out Ill refer to the broker as the scammer.
In March 2022, Mr W was looking for investments online when he came across an advert for 
N in an online newspaper article. He made contact with the scammer through the contact 
details listed in the advert. After speaking with a sales team he was referred to Ns website 
which he later described as having several features mimicking that of a genuine companys 
website. He received a call back from an account manager (the scammer), who described 
how the investment worked. Essentially the scammer would trade on Mr Ws behalf for a 
small commission and would teach Mr W how to trade at the same time, with the 
understanding that Mr W could withdraw his balance at any time. So, Mr W opened accounts 
with both C and N. The scammer used remote access software to gain access to Mr Ws 
device supposedly in order to trade on Mr Ws behalf. Mr W started off with an initial £10 
payment on 11 April 2022 which was a start-up fee. Mr W then paid a further £1,000 towards 
the investment, which was subject to fraud checks by First Direct. Mr W spoke to First Direct 
by phone the same day and the payment was released.
 
Mr W was pleased with the growth in his investment. Although he says he wasnt told 
specifically what returns hed generated, he was getting daily updates and could see the live 
trades as they took place. The scammer informed Mr W of different account packages with 
their Bronze Package requiring a minimum investment of £10,000. On 15 April 2022, 
Mr W transferred a further £9,000 towards the investment and again this payment was 
subject to a fraud check. Mr W spoke to First Direct by phone the same day during which 
First Direct says its agent tried to clarify who was advising Mr W and where his funds were 
going. It says it gave advice about the lack of regulation in cryptocurrency and the potential 
risk of investment scams, advising Mr W to be cautious. Following this call the payment was 
released.
As a Bronze Package customer, Mr W was passed over to another account manager who 
explained the best way for Mr W to access his money was to set up a savings account. To 
accumulate his savings, he needed to deposit the same amount he wanted to withdraw. So, 
he paid a further £2,000 on 27 April 2022 and a further £8,000 on 3 May 2022. First Direct 
says neither of these payments were subject to additional checks. However, I note from 
First Directs contact notes that Mr W called First Direct on 27 April 2022 because he was 
concerned the payment would be picked up by the fraud team and confirmed it was a 
genuine payment. First Direct hasnt supplied a copy of this call recording. Both of these 
payments successfully debited Mr Ws account.
However, when Mr W tried to make withdrawals from his account with N, he was asked to 
make further payments to release the funds and he realised hed been scammed. He then 
became aware of negative reviews online about N which hed not seen when he initially 
researched them. He reported this to First Direct on 5 May 2022 and he was told that as hed 
sent the funds to his own account with C, hed need to speak to C to pursue the loss. Mr W 
says he did this, but C was unable to assist.
Mr W complained to First Direct about the decision to decline his claim, and it issued a 
refund of the first and second payments totalling £1,010. First Direct says it refunded the 
initial £10 payment as it didnt provide a warning for this, and it refunded the £1,000 payment 
as the advisor didnt ask enough questions on the call. But First Direct said Mr W ought to 
have conducted more due diligence and was likely enticed by the high returns he was 
promised. It felt it did enough to question Mr W about the third payment, and it had no 
reason to intervene on the final two payments as they were going to a known beneficiary.
 
The matter was referred to our service and our Investigator upheld the complaint in full. They 
thought that First Direct ought to have done more during the call on 15 April 2022 to break 
the spell Mr W was under and, had it done this, Mr Ws loss would have been prevented. As 
our investigator didnt think that Mr W acted with negligence, they recommended he be 
refunded in full, together with 8% simple interest per annum from the date the payments 
were made until the date they would be returned.
 
First Direct continued to disagree, largely for the same reasons it relied on when it 
responded to Mr Ws complaint. It said the phone call it had with Mr W was a detailed and 
thorough phone call and it would be unreasonable to expect the bank to do any more. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reaching the same outcome as our Investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr W freely admits he carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit he was tricked into doing 
so. Under the relevant regulations, namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 
2017), Mr W is responsible for transactions he has authorised.
Like the Investigator, Im persuaded this case doesnt fall under the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code as the funds went to Mr Ws own 
account at C and not to another person  which is a requirement for a payment to be 
considered under the CRM Code. However, taking into account the law, regulators' rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider First Direct should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As First Direct has already refunded the first two transactions, I dont feel it necessary to 
comment on whether its interventions were proportionate to the risk associated with these 
payments. Instead, Ive focused on the payments which First Direct has said its not liable 
for.
 
First Direct did intervene on the £9,000 payment, as Id have expected it to. This was not in 
keeping with the typical account usage. Prior to this payment, the largest debit Mr W had 
made was a £5,000 card payment on 22 March 2022 to a merchant hed paid twice before 
over a period of two months. Therefore, I consider the £9,000 payment in question to be 
materially different to the previous transactions on his account. And this point doesnt seem 
to be in dispute given First Direct did attempt to make contact with Mr W and had a 
conversation with him.
 
Having listened to the phone call that took place on 15 April 2022, like our Investigator, Im 
satisfied First Direct ought to have done more to break the spell Mr W was under. During the 
call, Mr W confirms he is making a payment of £9,000 to C. However, despite this, 
First Direct gave a warning about impersonation scams such as those where a fraudster 
pretends to be the bank or police. Although I recognise that customers can often be 
equipped with cover stories, as the payment was going to a cryptocurrency provider, I think 
the first identifiable risk here was a cryptocurrency investment scam. So, Id have expected 
First Direct to have reacted to that information and tailored the questions and warnings 
around it.
 
The advisor went on to ask what prompted Mr W to make this payment and he explained he 
was entering into the cryptocurrency market. Again, whilst the scam risk presented here was 
a cryptocurrency investment scam, the advisor proceeded to ask Mr W questions about how 
he had obtained the payment details  a question relevant to email interception scams. Mr W 
then explained hed been dealing with a company in London (N) and had already made an 
initial payment and was now increasing this. In response to this, First Direct gave a warning 
about email interception scams. So initially, despite Mr W offering up information which did 
point to the fact that he was subject to a cryptocurrency investment scam, such as stating he 
was investing in cryptocurrency, that a third-party company or agent was involved (N) but he 
was sending the money to C, and that hed made an initial investment and was now 
increasing this; all of which are common features of this type of scam, First Direct didnt give 
a clear warning about cryptocurrency investment scams.
 
Eventually, First Direct steered the conversation towards the risks associated with 
cryptocurrency such as the lack of regulation and risk of scams, but I dont think its warning 
went far enough. The agent said:
Again, just to make you aware we sometimes see where these investment scams 
come up where they convince you to send money to crypto  they dont give you full 
access to the account and then they try to charge you more to release funds and 
things like that.This was just one feature of cryptocurrency investment scams, but one which wasnt 
completely relevant to Mr W. This warning didnt tackle any of the red flags Mr W had made 
First Direct aware of already in the call. Further red flags came to light as the call 
progressed, such as Mr W confirming hed never used N before, not specifying what 
research hed actually conducted, and explaining that as a techno dinosaur he was 
following advice and regularly speaking with two advisors. I think this information ought to 
have given First Direct cause for concern that Mr W was being prompted to invest and 
essentially coached through this process, which is an extremely common feature of this type 
of scam. Also, his self-admittance that he was not skilled with technology, couldve left him 
more susceptible to the manipulation that followed through use of remote access software 
which is also a prevalent feature of this scam type. Had it probed this further, it likely would 
have been able to establish that Mr W had also given the scammer access to his device, in 
order for coaching to be facilitated. Furthermore, the type of arrangement Mr W described 
during the call, was extremely unusual, for a legitimate investment. And the information he 
revealed, made it overwhelmingly likely that the situation Mr W was describing was a scam.
Taking the above into account, Im persuaded that enough information had already come to 
light during the call to give First Direct serious concerns that Mr W was falling for a 
cryptocurrency investment scam. First Direct ought to have clearly warned Mr W that many 
of the details Mr W had relayed were common features in such scams and that there was a 
high risk to Mr W that hed lose his money if he proceeded. I do accept that First Direct did 
go on to warn Mr W of the risks of proceeding, in the context of sending funds to the wrong 
account, or there being something wrong with the broker. And it did give a general warning 
about middlemen being involved in cryptocurrency investment scams. But Im still not 
persuaded this sufficiently brought to life the common features of this scam, in order to 
positively impact Mr Ws decision making. Had First Direct really brought cryptocurrency 
investment scams to life and highlighted that what Mr W had described mimicked the typical 
traits of a cryptocurrency scams, it wouldve made the warning all the more relevant and 
personal to Mr W. I think this wouldve been much more impactful and wouldve put Mr W on 
notice that he was potentially falling victim to a scam.
Mr W showed throughout the call, and all calls he had with First Direct that he was happy to 
answer any questions asked of him, and welcomed the checks conducted by First Direct, 
even thanking the agents for their intervention. So, I have reason to believe that had 
First Direct probed further and gave a more specific warning, that Mr W would have likely 
positively engaged with this. Had First Direct warned Mr W against proceeding and set out 
how he might protect himself from cryptocurrency investment scams, such as only dealing 
with regulated and authorised brokers, and following the advice on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys website on investment scams, I think its highly unlikely Mr W 
would have wanted to proceed. I say this because he later came to the realisation hed been 
scammed when he had a slight feeling something wasnt right when being asked to pay to 
release his funds. This indicates to me he was not oblivious to risk and was paying due 
regard to the credibility of any requests made by the scammer. Overall, Im satisfied that 
further probing and better warnings from First Direct, as it ought to have done, wouldve 
exposed the scam and prevented further loss.
Ive also considered whether Mr W can be fairly considered partially responsible for his loss. 
Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence whilst also paying due 
regard to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr W should not share liability in this instance. Mr W is a 
self-confessed inexperienced investor. He explained he wasnt familiar with cryptocurrency, 
and from the phone calls Ive listened to, he described himself as a techno dinosaur. Taking 
these things into account, Ive considered whether Mr W did enough to establish that the investment he was entering into was a genuine one, or that he has acted with such a degree 
of carelessness that it would be fair and reasonable to say he ought to share in liability. 
Mr W says he found the advert for N in a well-known online newspaper  or perhaps, 
unbeknown to Mr W, a convincing mock-up of the online newspaper, given what we know 
about how this type of scam typically operates. Mr W also explained Ns website was 
professional in its layout with various tabs such as a regulatory section, a cookies policy, and 
an about us section. He was also able to see live trades through access to his own online 
account with N and could see charts and graphs of investments and their outcomes. Again, 
Mr W has not supplied evidence of this as he no longer has access to the site, but we know 
this to be a common feature of such scams, so I have no reason to doubt his testimony. And 
Im sure this would have seemed quite compelling to Mr W, as an inexperienced investor.
Furthermore, he had built up strong rapport with the scammers, who he described as 
charismatic and knowledgeable, having daily conversations with them at times. Mr W says 
he initially wasnt made promises of specific returns, nor was he made any guarantees, 
which is true of the nature of the investment he was making. Though its unclear whether 
Mr W conducted any in-depth research into N, other than searching N on the internet, Ive 
found that prior to the payments he made, there were mostly positive reviews about N on a 
well-known independent review site, which likely wouldve contributed to his belief in Ns 
legitimacy had he looked for these.
Ive also considered whether, following the interactions Mr W had with First Direct, he ought 
to have done more to verify that he was making a legitimate investment. But I dont think 
thats the case here. As Ive explained, Im not persuaded the calls went into enough detail 
about what such investment scams look and feel like and instead focused on the regulation, 
or lack thereof, of cryptocurrency. Therefore Im not persuaded the warnings First Direct 
gave put Mr W on notice that he was falling victim to a scam.
I do acknowledge that some of the features of the investment, particularly the returns Mr W 
thought hed generated towards the end of the scam, didnt align with what Id expect of a 
legitimate investment of a similar nature. However, taking everything into account, as well as 
Mr Ws lack of experience, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to attribute blame to 
Mr W in this case. That is to say, I dont think he should share in liability for his losses as a 
result of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc 
trading as first direct. 
If Mr W accepts my decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should:
- Refund the outstanding loss, which I calculate to be £19,000 (£20,010 sent less the 
refund of £1,010). 
- Pay Mr W 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, from the date the payments 
were made until the date outstanding loss is refunded, less any tax lawfully 
deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Meghan Gilligan
Ombudsman