DRN-1854203
 
The complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited - trading as Satsuma - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr H between 
December 2015 and July 2017. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 10/12/2015 08/09/2016 52 weeks £1,000.00 £191.35
2 24/10/2016 30/12/2016 52 weeks £1,000.00 £191.35
Break in lending
3 14/07/2017 Outstanding 12 months £1,500.00 £249.00
Mr Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had asked Mr H to 
provide that should have prompted Satsuma to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt 
say Satsuma was wrong to have given the loans to Mr H.  
Mr H accepted the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 and 2 but he disagreed with their 
findings about loan 3. He said he had loans from other short-term lenders at the time and 
was struggling financially. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
As Mr H accepts the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 and 2, I wont be making any 
further findings on them. That just leaves me to consider loan 3. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Satsumas checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he had other short-term loans. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
There was a gap of seven months between Mr H repaying loan 2 and borrowing again at 
loan 3. I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to view this gap as an indication that Mr Hs 
finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused him to take 
out his previous loans. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking 
again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out 
when considering the length of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. 
So, Mr H was very early on in his lending relationship with Satsuma. Even though he had to 
make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based 
on the information he declared to Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in the information    
Mr H provided at the time which would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it 
was reasonable of Satsuma to have relied on what Mr H gave it.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,100. Satsuma also checked Mr Hs normal 
monthly living costs. Mr H declared these to be £700.66 a month. Satsuma says it also 
searched Mr Hs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. So, I dont think there was anything that ought to have 
prompted Satsuma to do further checks or not to provide the loan to Mr H. 
Mr H has provided a copy of his bank statements from around the time loan 3 was taken out 
and these show he was borrowing from other short-term lenders. But Satsuma wasnt aware 
of this and whilst the information Mr H declared to Satsuma at the time of the loans may not 
have been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, I think Satsuma was entitled 
to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew 
about Mr H, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Mr H gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Satsuma done something wrong in lending Mr H these 
loans.
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr H, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman