DRN-3113981
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
has been managing his pension.
Mr W wants Prudential to refund the management charges that it applied to his pension.
What happened
Mr W has a personal pension with Prudential. After Mr W discovered a sudden drop of 
around £6,700 in the value of his pension, he asked Prudential for an explanation.
Prudential said it had mistakenly failed to deduct the annual management charge (AMC) 
since the start of his pension policy in 2019. When it discovered the mistake at the end of 
2020, Prudential deducted the missing AMCs in one go. Prudential agreed that it shouldve 
told Mr W about the missing AMCs before taking the payment. Prudential apologised and 
paid Mr W £1,500 compensation. 
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Ws complaint. He thought Prudentials 
compensation payment was reasonable.
Mr W disagrees with the investigators view. He says that since the start of his pension, 
Prudential has given him incorrect statements on four occasions. Mr W says Prudential has 
upheld his service complaints. Hes unhappy that Prudential took longer than it shouldve to 
resolve his complaint about the AMCs. Mr W thinks Prudential should refund the AMCs as it 
hasnt managed his pension properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it was a shock for Mr W to discover that the value of his pension had 
suddenly dropped. Prudential agrees that it made a mistake so my decision focusses on 
whether compensation of £1,500 goes far enough to put things right for Mr W. It will 
disappoint Mr W but I agree its fair and I will explain why.
Where we decide that something has gone wrong, this service would ask the business to put 
things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, back in the position they wouldve 
been if the problem hadnt happened. 
In Mr Ws case, he was always due to pay the AMCs to Prudential, so putting him back in 
the position he wouldve been without the mistake, wouldnt lead to him receiving a refund of 
the AMCs. And Prudential still carried out the service of managing Mr Ws investment 
together with the admin and marketing that Mr Ws key facts document explains are the 
reasons for the AMCs. 
I agree that Prudential made mistakes - first when it failed to deduct the AMCs and then 
when it didnt tell Mr W it was going deduct all the unpaid AMCs in December 2020.  But I 
consider the compensation of £1,500 fairly reflects the loss of expectation and distress that 
Mr W felt. 
When deciding the reasonableness of Prudentials offer, Ive taken account of the fact that 
while Mr W was worried that the value of his fund had dropped without reason, Prudential 
gave him an explanation within a few months of him noticing the drop. I appreciate Mr W is 
unhappy that Prudential took longer than it shouldve to give him the explanation, but I still 
consider this means the impact  while substantial - was relatively short-lived. The 
compensation of £1,500 is at the very top end of an award this service might make where 
the mistake has had a substantial impact on the consumer. Our approach to awards like this 
is on our website.
Although Mr W points out that there has been a catalogue of failures by Prudential, I can see 
that over the past few years, it has paid him at least £450 compensation and sent him a gift. 
So, my decision primarily focusses on the impact felt when Prudential deducted the AMCs in 
December 2020. For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider £1,500 is fair so I dont 
require Prudential to take any further steps in response to Mr Ws complaint.
Finally, in October 2021, Mr W told the investigator that Prudential had given him yet more 
misleading information. Mr W said hed received an email from Prudential enclosing an 
annual statement that hed not requested. And that although the statement was dated March 
2021, it covered the period October 2019 to October 2020 and included just over £500 of 
AMCs deducted during that period  which would seem to go against what Prudential had 
said about having not previously taken any fees. The investigator told Mr W that as this was 
a new complaint, he should speak with Prudential first before coming back to us if he needed 
further help. As Mr W hasnt come back to us on this point, Ive not reflected this aspect of 
Mr Ws complaint in my decision. 
My final decision
Prudential has already paid Mr W £1,500. I dont think Prudential needs to do anything more 
to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman