DRN-2710366
The complaint
Mr W has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles Card) acted irresponsibly when 
they increased his Marbles Card limit twice to an unaffordable level.
What happened
Mr W completed an on-line application for a Marbles Credit Card in August 2017. Marbles 
approved his application and issued a card with an initial limit of £300.
In December 2017, Marbles wrote to Mr W. They said that they would like to increase his 
Marbles Card credit limit to £1,300. They said that the new limit would be made available no 
later than 40 days from the date of their letter. They also said that Mr W should contact them 
if he didnt want his limit to increase. They provided contact details in their letter.
In April 2018, Marbles wrote to Mr W again. They said that they would like to increase his 
Marbles Card credit limit. This time to £2,700. They said that the new limit would be made 
available no later than 40 days from the date of their letter. They also said that Mr W should 
contact them if he didnt want his limit to increase. Again, they provided contact details in 
their letter.
In August 2019, Marbles wrote to Mr W. They said that hed missed a payment and that it 
was important that the late payment was made as soon as possible. 
In October 2019, Marbles wrote to Mr W again to tell him that his credit card agreement had 
been terminated. They said that the full balance was now due and that his account was now 
with their Debt Recovery Unit. They provided their contact details and asked Mr W to contact 
them.
In November 2019, Marbles sold the outstanding debt to a Debt Collection Agency.
Mr W wrote to Marbles in January 2020 to complain. He said that his initial credit limit of 
£300 was very manageable. But he said that they increased his limit on two occasions that 
meant he ran up a large amount of debt which wasnt affordable. Mr W wanted Marbles to 
refund the interest charged from June 2018 onwards.
Marbles responded to Mr Ws complaint in April 2020. They apologised for the delay in their 
response and explained that theyd been investigating his complaint. They didnt agree that 
theyd done anything wrong here. So, they said that they wouldnt be refunding interest as 
Mr W had requested.
Mr W was unhappy with Marbles response. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think that Marbles 
needed to do anything more here. Mr W didnt agree so he asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing Mr Ws complaint, I need to consider whether the checks and assessments that 
Marbles completed here were reasonable and proportionate. Also, whether they were 
enough to satisfy them that Mr W would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. If 
they were, I need to consider if their decision to lend was a fair one, given the information 
they had.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) provides examples of the 
factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, under which, they should be 
applied.
I have looked at the information provided by Mr W to Marbles when he first applied for the 
credit card. He states that he was self-employed with an income of £30,000 per year. He 
also said that there was additional household income of £15,000 per year. He had existing 
unsecured debts of £11,400 and nine active credit accounts. There is no evidence of any 
outstanding payday loans or arrears and no current adverse information reported at the time. 
It showed that Mr W had previously had defaults reported. But it said that the most recent 
default was 42 months prior to his application.
Marbles have said that this falls within their policy as a second chance lender that offers 
lending to people who have been rejected by other high street lenders. Marbles is entitled 
to decide who they lend to and, if they want to accept the risk of lending to people that other 
business may not lend to, they are free to decide that. But that doesnt mean that they dont 
have the same obligations as other lenders to perform borrower focused assessments that 
any lending they provide is affordable and sustainable.
Mr W has provided us with a copy of his credit report dated April 2019. Although this is more 
recent, it does show the recorded history of all active and closed credit agreements over the 
preceding six years. It shows no evidence of any financial problems with any of the existing 
credit agreements that he had at the time of his application. 
Given the information provided by both Marbles and Mr W, I dont believe that Marbles 
decision to lend here was unreasonable. I think it performed appropriate and proportionate 
checks to ensure that both the original card limit was affordable and to assess how the 
subsequent credit limit increases would impact on Mr W.
I say this because Marbles has provided information to show that each time Mr Ws credit 
limit was increased it took account of the information it had available about him and went 
through its normal process to check his eligibility for the increase. When Marbles increased 
the limits here, Mr Ws credit limit had never been exceeded, and his payments had always 
been made on time. In December 2017 Mr W repaid the entire outstanding balance. He went 
on to reuse the credit limit without any evidence of problems. 
Marbles have said there was no evidence of financial difficulty, arrears or affordability 
indicators being reported by credit reference agencies either. This is confirmed by the 
information provided by Marbles and from the credit report provided by Mr W. Whilst it was 
clear that Mr W had other credit outstanding, the information that Ive seen suggests that Mr 
W was managing his credit in a controlled manner. I agree that there was no evidence of 
financial difficulty.
Marbles have said that they apply a low and grow strategy and will often start with a 
lower amount and review the account with a view to increasing. This is ultimately what happened here  and there is no evidence to suggest that Mr W had asked for a lower limit 
or was unhappy with having his limit increased.
The limit increase letters sent to Mr W by Marbles are clear in their content. They give Mr W 
an option to refuse the limit increases offered. I can find no evidence that Mr W did refuse 
the limit increases. When the increases were applied, Mr W used them on a regular basis 
and without any evidence of financial pressure.  
The financial difficulties experienced by Mr W didnt show until August 2019. Up until that 
point, while Mr W had been fully utilising his credit limit, all payments had been made on 
time and his credit limit hadnt been exceeded. So, I cant see anything that would lead 
Marbles to conclude that Mr W was having problems before then.
I realise that Mr W will be disappointed, but from the information presented, I believe that the 
checks and assessments that Marbles completed were reasonable and proportionate here. I 
dont think that there was anything to reasonably suggest that Mr W would be unable to 
manage the credit offered to him prior to the limit increases. So, I shant be asking Marbles 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman