DRN-2765538
The complaint
Miss C complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) didnt tell her a buy now pay later plan (bnpl) was coming to and end. As a 
result, she says she incurred over £800 in interest that she would like refunded 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Miss C says she was led to believe she would get a letter by post advising her the 
bnpl plan was ending so that she could pay off the balance and avoid interest but 
didnt do so. From what I have seen I am not clear if Argos used to physically send 
out letters or not. Although as Miss C signed up for electronic statements, I wouldnt 
have necessarily expected her to get any communications via  other means
I have seen Argos terms and conditions. Whilst these changed during the time Miss 
C had her account both sets advise that customers will be told bnpl plans are coming 
to an end. They dont specify how consumers are given this information.  Ive seen 
Miss Cs statements. After she made her bnpl purchases subsequent statements all 
noted the bnpl plan, and the date it ended. The statement of October 2019 flags on 
the first page that there is a letter attached relating to the end of the bnpl period  the 
following month. So, I do believe Argos followed its own terms and conditions and 
advised Miss C her plan was coming to an end.
Miss C has told us she stopped accessing her online account in December 2018. 
Argos cant confirm this. But even if this were the case the information was there for 
her to access. And she would have seen at least one statement showing her bnpl 
balance and due date.
I appreciate the interest Argos charged was a significant sum. But as it gave Miss C 
the relevant notice of the end of the bnpl plan I dont think I can reasonably ask it to 
refund the interest charged as Miss C would like.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman