DRN-3893768
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) have dealt
with the claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs Ms local water company fitted a new water meter which started leaking in a 
kitchen cupboard in November 2021
There was confusion over the scope of works involved on the claim regarding the 
worktops however this has now been resolved
Mrs M is unhappy with the delays on the claim and that she had to chase up the 
contractors; she says she felt misled about what would be covered under the claim
Mrs M has found the situation particularly stressful as she is recently widowed and 
hasnt dealt with a claim like this before
Mrs M wanted the works carried out to a high standard however she didnt want the 
same contractors in her house again
AA considered the complaint and offered £100 for the delay in completing the drying 
work
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it saying that AA should 
provide a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, as 
well as seeking the claim excess back from the water board
Mrs M agreed with the investigators outcome however AA disagreed, saying that it 
hadnt been shown why the increase in compensation was warranted
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a
decision
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 20 December 2022. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reiterate that our service has looked at events from when Mrs M made the claim,
10 November 2021, until the date AA responded to a second complaint on 14 July 2022. If
Mrs M has any concerns over events past that final date, shed need to raise a new
complaint to AA to consider and if needed, refer that to our service to review.
The cash settlement for the claim isnt in dispute and AA have reimbursed the claim excess
and included the worktops within the claim works. Therefore, Ive considered the amount of
compensation that AA have offered throughout this time period which has amounted to
£350.
Its accepted by AA that there was around a delay of a month to dry the property and I do
agree that this was longer than Id expect. Ive also considered Mrs Ms feelings on
comments that were made by contractors and that she felt uncomfortable being in the home
alone with them. In addition, I recognise Mrs Ms situation and that she wouldve felt
distressed with having to deal with a claim that wasnt going to plan and that she hadnt
experienced making an insurance claim before.
However, AA have resolved the issues with the worktops and reimbursed the claim excess.
Theyve also compensated Mrs M with £350 which I consider to be reasonable for the small
delay on the claim and the conflicting information provided by the contractors. Its important
to note that with any insurance claim theres an element of distress and inconvenience
caused by the issue itself.
I concluded I was satisfied that AAs compensation payments in total of £350 is sufficient to 
resolve the complaints. And I wouldnt be asking it to pay any further compensation to Mrs 
M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments from either party in response to my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied that my provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
8 February 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman