DRN-4127099
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc failed to complete an international payment and returned  
the funds to him after two weeks.
What happened
Mr M asked TSB make an international payment, but the funds didnt reach the intended 
account and were returned to Mr Ms account. Mr M complained to TSB that its failure to 
complete the payment resulted in stress and inconvenience and that hed missed out the 
opportunity to purchase an investment property.
TSB said it had been asked to provide some missing information by an intermediary bank 
and had passed this on. TSB didnt uphold the complaint, but as a gesture of goodwill, 
credited Mr Ms bank account with the international payment fee and a further amount to 
reflect the difference in the sum retuned to Mr M due to exchange rate movements.
Mr M brought the complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and initially thought that TSB were partially responsible for the payment 
being returned uncompleted. However, after further investigation, TSB accepted 
responsibility for the international payment being uncompleted. The investigator thought TSB 
should pay Mr M £350 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him, and that 
when considered alongside the goodwill gesture TSB had previously paid Mr M, that this 
was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr M asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I will now explain why.
Mr M is frustrated that TSB has only recently accepted responsibility for delaying the 
payment and then returning it to his account. However, this means that I dont have to 
consider whether TSB got things wrong  it accepts that it did. Instead, I will consider whats 
a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels that TSB should compensate him for missing out on an investment opportunity. 
Before considering my decision, I asked Mr M to provide some evidence to show me what 
opportunity hed missed out on and any evidence to show the failure to complete the 
investment was caused directly by TSB. Mr M provided a number of text messages between 
himself and a family member supporting the international payment was initially delayed and 
then returned  which isnt disputed now. Mr M has provided details of a property for sale on 
a website but hasnt provided anything that relates to a specific investment opportunity he 
was buying, nor anything supporting that it was TSB that directly caused him to miss out on 
an investment opportunity. Thats not to say Mr M didnt engage with a family member about 
an investment opportunity and I think the text messages support this happened, but Ive not 
seen enough evidence to support that a specific investment opportunity was lost because of 
something TSB did. So, because I dont have sufficient evidence that the actions of TSB 
resulted in a missed investment opportunity, Ive decided that I cant reasonably consider a 
remedy in this regard.
Mr M instructed TSB to make the payment on 24 August and the funds were returned to his 
account on 8 September. Mr M maintains that TSB has known for some time that it was 
responsible for the payment not being completed. Mr M says he suffered high levels of 
distress worrying about what had happened to the funds and what had caused the initial 
delay. Im satisfied the error made by TSB caused Mr M considerable distress, upset and 
worry. The funds were returned to his account relatively quickly, but Mr M had to visit a local 
branch to try and resolve things and he was worried the funds had gone astray. This had an 
impact on Mr Ms existing health condition. TSB has already refunded the transfer fee to Mr 
M and paid him the difference in value caused by exchange rate movements, so Im satisfied 
a £350 payment to reflect the significant distress and inconvenience TSB caused Mr M is a 
fair and reasonable remedy in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr M £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman