DRN-3570787
The complaint
Mrs L brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr C. She complains HSBC UK Bank Plc 
didnt prevent Mr C from losing money to a scam.
What happened
Mr C was disabled, and his wife used to help manage the household finances. She passed 
away and the bank were notified of this in April 2017. In December 2017, Mr C started 
sending payments to individuals and it transpires he was involved in a romance scam. This 
only came to light following Mr Cs death and is detailed in interventions carried out by other 
banks into payments Mr C was making.
The payments were made by Mr C between July 2017 and September 2019 from two 
different accounts. It was around July 2019 that HSBC says it was made aware of Mr Cs 
vulnerabilities and that he then decided to close his accounts and move his banking 
arrangements elsewhere a couple of months later. The payments were to individuals, 
PayPal, World Remit and PayAngel  the latter both provide money remittance services. The 
payments were also made by various different methods  international payments, debit card 
and bill payments. And the payments made to PayPal were also debit card payments, but 
due to the way accounts are set up with PayPal, these show as direct debit transactions. I 
havent set out the individual transactions in question, as they are numerous.
Following Mr Cs death, Mrs L made a complaint about the transactions and that HSBC 
didnt take any steps to intervene into what she thought were unusual transactions for his 
accounts. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint as it said it wasnt evident from the information 
provided that a scam had taken place. It did however, pay £200 for its error in not following 
up on the concerns sooner.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. Although she felt an intervention from the 
bank should have taken place, she didnt think that would have stopped Mr C making 
payments. Thats because later interventions by other banks didnt have any effect, and Mr 
C had gone so far as to threaten his own life in ensuring payments were made.
Mrs L has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In doing so, she has made 
reference to the Banking Protocol. She has also said its unfair to rely on her fathers later 
actions with other banks to decide whether Mr C would have taken any note of interventions 
by HSBC had any been carried out, particularly as HSBC is the first bank the scam 
payments were made from. In short, she is satisfied Mr C would have acted on any concerns 
had HSBC raised any and she doesnt believe it went anywhere near far enough in protecting 
him.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 May 2022 explaining why I was minded to uphold this 
complaint in part. I said:
I would firstly like to acknowledge how devastating it must have been for Mrs L to discover 
that Mr C had been taken advantage of so soon after losing his wife. I understand her 
strength of feeling in pursuing this matter. But despite my natural sympathy for what has 
taken place, I can only uphold this complaint if I find HSBC ought to have intervened in any 
of the payments made, and Im satisfied that intervention would have resulted in payments 
being stopped.
In asking for an ombudsmans decision, Mrs L has referred to the Banking Protocol. Im 
afraid the protocol only applies to transactions carried out in branch. None of the payments 
disputed were branch transactions and so the protocol isnt relevant. And whilst I accept Mrs 
Ls point the pandemic might have meant customers couldnt attend branch for a period, Im 
mindful that Mr C closed has accounts with HSBC in September 2019  six months prior to 
the pandemic. This, therefore, has no bearing on my consideration.
I have also noted that some transactions carried out in June and July 2019 were bill 
payments, a form of faster payment. That means those transactions fall under the Lending 
Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model  CRM  which Ill come onto later in 
this decision.
My first consideration is whether Mr C was scammed, particularly as HSBC seem to doubt 
this. However, as explained by one of our investigators, Mr C had lost money from other 
bank accounts with several other providers. And the information provided during our 
investigations has shown that other banks had concerns Mr C was falling victim to a 
romance scam and had tried to intervene in those payments. I understand it was also the 
view of the police that Mr C had fallen victim to a romance scam. Im satisfied I can fairly rely 
on this information to show that Mr C has been scammed, and its disappointing HSBC 
seems to think information that comes to light later shouldnt be taken into account; a 
surprising position given many people who have been scammed only realise after its 
happened.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rest with the payer even where they were duped 
into making that payment. There isnt any dispute that Mr C authorised the payments in 
question and so he is presumed liable for them in the first instance.
However, and as set out by the investigator, in accordance with the law, regulations and 
good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on 
information which ought reasonably to alter a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial 
crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Ive paid particular attention to the BSI Code PAS 17271:2017 which was introduced in 
October 2017, before the majority of the payments in dispute we made. And this code built 
upon and codified standards and practices banks and other payment services providers 
were already using. And so its principles are relevant to my consideration of any transactions 
prior to its introduction also.
The BSI code sets out some indicators which might alert a bank to its customer being at risk 
of fraud or financial abuse. This includes such things as a sudden increase in spending, 
multiple password attempts, logins in from new devices with multiple geographical locations 
and such like.
Mr C made payments from two different accounts, account ending 7962 and 3395. The 
majority of payments were made from 3395, and I will deal with each in turn.
7962HSBC has provided statements for this account. And having looked over those statements, I 
can see that Mr C was regularly making payments from the account to various different 
businesses and to individuals. He also used a wide range of payment methods, from his 
debit card, to transfers and bill payments. Mr C also regularly made payments in excess of 
£1,000, and on a fairly often basis, they were much higher.
The only transactions I can see that have been disputed for this account are those to World 
Remit which took place on 13, 14 and 17 June 2019. Although there was more than one 
transaction on each day to World Remit they were of relatively small value, even when 
added together, compared with other spending on the account. I also accept these were to a 
new payee, but I dont think there was a substantial change to the operation of the account, 
or that the transactions were so unusual or uncharacteristic that they were suspicious or that 
HSBC ought to have suspected Mr C might have been a risk of financial harm. I therefore 
find no basis on which to find that HSBC ought to have intervened in them.
It follows that I dont find any basis on which to ask HSBC to reimburse these transactions to 
Mr Cs estate.
3395
HSBC has also provided the statements for this account. And I have looked over these. 
Again Mr C was making regular use of the account, both for payments out and to receive 
credits in. He was making payments to businesses, named individuals and to other banking 
and credit providers. And like his other account Mr C used various payment methods to 
make those payments. There were also payments of low value, and payments up to 
£10,000.
The payments in dispute were similar  to legitimate businesses (PayPal, World Remit etc) 
and to named individuals. The payments were also made using various methods and range 
from mere pounds at the smallest transaction to just over £5,000 at the largest. To that 
extent, the payments in dispute were no different to the existing operation of Mr Cs account.
I am aware that on occasion Mr C sent more than one payment in a day. This is quite often 
seen with the PayPal transactions but also with some of the others. With regards to PayPal, 
its my understanding that in order to pay this way, Mr C would have needed an account with 
PayPal, and it appears he linked his card to his PayPal account in May 2017 (shown as a 
PayPal code on the bank statement). This enables a customer to pay people or pay for 
goods and services through PayPal. I dont think it could have been known to HSBC what 
the ultimate destination of the money was  and given payments can be made like this for 
goods ordered on-line, its entirely possible some of these are genuine transactions.
As Mrs L is probably aware, PayPal is a global payment provider with millions of customers. 
That Mr C became one of those customers wouldnt be unusual. The payments through 
PayPal ranged from just over £2 at the smallest to £1,000 at the largest. Most payments 
were for under £400 even when adding up multiple transactions where those occurred. And 
even where more than one payment was made to PayPal in a day, it was weeks or 
sometimes months before further payments were made.
Between October 2018 and July 2019 Mr C made a number of bill payments to different 
named individuals, predominantly to one individual Ill refer to as G. Payments to G were 
numerous but only on occasion was more than one payment made in a day. The smallest 
payment to G was £10 with the largest individual transaction being £500. There were four 
payments each to other individuals Ill refer to as M and R and these were also for 
transactions of £500 or less. Whilst with the benefit of hindsight these might be easy to spot 
given the knowledge that a romance scam had taken place, Im not persuaded any of these transactions were or ought to have been suspicious to HSBC at the time they were made; Mr 
C could and did make regular transactions to individuals.
I have also considered the larger transactions that were sent to E and S (There are two 
different Es but suspicions are they were the same person). These payments were 
international and were for far higher sums than the other transactions. And the payments to 
E were in December 2017 into January 2018 and beyond. These payments were for 
between £132 and just over £5,000. In the 12 months leading up to these transactions Mr C 
made several large transactions out to individuals  e.g. £9,000 in February 2017, £6,000 in 
August 2017 and other large transactions between. I accept it appears these payments went 
to family members or relatives, but that wouldnt necessarily have been known to the bank. 
Given Mr C made other large transactions to individuals, for higher sums, sometimes much 
higher, I dont find the payments to E or S were unusual.
I am aware these were international payments which Mr C hadnt made from this account in 
the preceding 12 months. But Im not persuaded the transactions being international makes 
them so unusual or uncharacteristic (given the other similarities in the account operation) 
that I think HSBCs fraud alert systems ought to have triggered.
I have taken into account that Mrs L has told us Mr C was vulnerable when payments were 
made. I accept that HSBC ought to have known Mr C was disabled as I understand he had 
visited a branch on numerous occasions. But being disabled doesnt necessarily mean 
vulnerable in handling money matters. I also accept that Mrs Cs death would have been 
difficult for him, particularly as she used to help with that. But I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that HSBC was notified before it said (July 2019) that Mr C was vulnerable or had 
difficulties with his finances, nor am I aware that any additional provisions for this were put in 
place by his family. As such, its not something HSBC could fairly have taken into account.
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence HSBC breached its duty to Mr C or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests he made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all payment-service 
users and/or commercial efficiency  and HSBC did also have a duty to execute a properly 
authorised payment request within a reasonable period.
Although I havent found that HSBC did anything wrong at the point of executing the 
payments, that isnt the end of the matter.
On 28 May 2019 the CRM was introduced. This is a voluntary code that a number of banks 
have signed up to, including HSBC. Under the CRM HSBC should reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. The code 
doesnt apply to card payments, international payments, nor any payments made before its 
introduction. So it doesnt apply to a lot of the payments in dispute. However, there are four 
payments to R in June 2019, and five payments to G in June and July 2019, which are bill 
payments and so are covered under the code. These total £1,194.94.
It isnt clear whether HSBC took its obligations under the code into account when 
considering this matter, and when asked by our investigator it didnt respond to the questions 
asked about it.
It is for HSBC to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM. Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
oThe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
oThe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/oroThe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
HSBC hasnt provided any information to show Mr C ignored an effective warning, or that he 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in the payments he was making. Therefore HSBC 
ought to have refunded the transactions set out above, totalling £1,194.94 at the point the 
dispute arose.
Im therefore currently minded to make this award.
HSBC has responded to say that although it doesnt agree with all of my findings, as a 
gesture of goodwill it will settle the complaint in accordance with my provisional decision.
Mrs L has also responded. In summary, she disagrees the transactions were unusual and 
restates her belief HSBC should have done a lot more to protect Mr C. In particular she 
refers to the international transactions to E and S being different to other large payments 
which were to family members and she has provided further information she has come 
across about the scam. Mrs L also queries why a payment to World Remit of £102.99 left the 
account on 14 February 2019 to be returned the following day and two payments of £501.98 
were transferred twice and returned twice on 16 June 2019.  Mrs L also says she confirmed 
to an investigator that the PayPal transactions were not part of this dispute. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the responses to my provisional findings very carefully. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my provisional decision. 
I thank Mrs L for confirming the PayPal transactions arent in dispute. 
I appreciate and understand she feels very strongly that HSBC ought to have intervened, 
particularly into the larger international transactions. I had already considered whether these 
transactions were so unusual or uncharacteristic such that I thought HSBCs fraud systems 
ought to have triggered. And although I understand Mrs L doesnt agree with my findings, 
she hasnt provided any new evidence or arguments for me to consider. As previously 
explained whilst other large payments might have been to family members or relatives, this 
wouldnt have necessarily been known to the bank. Im not persuaded a payment being 
international automatically means its unsafe or that it should have alerted the bank to 
something being wrong  thousands of international payments are made every day, and by 
customers for the first time. 
Mrs L has also referenced two specific sets of transactions. However, I note those made in 
June 2019 for £501.98 were to PayPal, which she has confirmed are no longer in dispute. 
This therefore has no bearing on my findings. And in relation to the other, there could be any 
number of reasons for a payment to be sent back to an account the following day, from an 
incorrect destination account number being entered, to the recipient returning the funds as 
they only needed them for a short period. Im not persuaded this ought to have triggered any 
fraud alerts either.
Mrs L has provided further information about the scam and the people connected with it. But 
as per my provisional findings, I dont doubt that Mr C was scammed. And whilst I fully 
accept the impact being scammed has had, my findings remain that I dont find HSBC ought 
to have intervened in any of the payments before they were executed. HSBC has agreed as a gesture of good will to the reimbursement set out in my provisional 
findings. However, under the CRM this ought to have been refunded unless there was an 
applicable exception. I found no applicable exception within the CRM and HSBC hasnt 
provided any new evidence or arguments for me to consider. I therefore require it to 
reimburse £1,194 to Mr Cs estate.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse £1,194 to Mr Cs estate. Payment should be made within 
28 days of being notified of the estates acceptance of the award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman