DRN-2059894
The complaint
Mrs H complains that esure Insurance Limited trading as Shelias Wheels declined her claim 
when she reported that her car had been stolen.
What happened
Mrs H had motor insurance for her car with esure. On 4 March 2019 she contacted them to 
advise them that her car had been stolen and to make a claim on her policy. She told them 
that shed been visiting her sister, shed parked her car outside her sisters house overnight, 
and in the morning, it was missing. 
Mrs H reported the theft to the police, who prepared a report, but the car was never 
recovered. When she contacted esure to report the theft they asked her how many keys she 
was given when she bought the car. She said two, but she only had one, as the other had 
been lost by her daughter and had been missing for about 18 months.
Mrs H was asked to send all the documentation for the car and the key she had to esure. 
They arranged a forensic examination of the key which they told Mrs H raised concerns. This 
was because the forensic report said that although this was an original key for the car, it had 
last been used on 3 July 2018. When esure called Mrs H to discuss this she told them she 
might have the other key in her house, and shed look for it. But she later told them she 
hadnt been able to find it. 
esure then told Mrs H that the evidence theyd obtained, including a copy of the police 
report, didnt support her version of events and it appeared that the theft hadnt occurred as 
shed reported. So theyd been unable to validate her claim and wouldnt be paying any 
money in settlement.
Mrs H raised a complaint with esure, but they werent prepared to change they decision. Mrs 
H then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said, that based 
on the forensic report, the key Mrs H had sent to esure wasnt the one that shed used to 
drive to her sisters house. And as she hadnt been able to provide the key shed used, she 
hadnt shown that the theft had happened as shed reported. He also said that Mrs H had 
breached the terms and conditions of her policy, as athough she said one of the original car 
keys had been lost, she hadnt taken any steps to change the locks, to ensure that the car 
remained secure. So he didnt think esure had done anything wrong in not paying her claim.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said the following :-
Shed been given two keys when she bought the car and she wasnt aware that one 
was missing until after the car was stolen. 
The forensic report was based on a key and software which, according to the 
manufacturers could develop faults.
She wished to obtain her own forensic report but hadnt been able to do this as esure 
hadnt returned the key to her.
Shed secured her car in line with the policy terms and conditions, but thieves could 
bypass the cars software and gain access without a key.
She didnt accept that the theft hadnt occurred as shed reported to esure, and she 
felt they were simply looking for an excuse not to pay her claim.There should be CCTV which would confirm her account was accurate and esure 
should ask the police for this.
When our investigator prepared his opinion, he said the police report wasnt available 
due to the pandemic lockdown. She didnt think this was acceptable.
esure hadnt treated her fairly and we needed to establish if they had contacted the 
police, if theyd looked at any CCTV footage and whether they were saying that her 
car could only be stolen with a key.
Since our investigator provided his opinion Mrs H has provided a link to a newspaper article 
which says, that the cars manufacturers had admitted that it is possible to hack keyless 
fobs, using cheap easily purchased devices, and there was nothing they could do about this. 
She wants us to take this into account in relation to her claim.
 We asked Mrs H whether she had any record of her cars mileage, so this could be checked 
against the mileage recorded in the forensic report. But she was unable to provide this, or 
any documentation on which this might have been recorded. 
esure have provided us with a call recording from 12 June 2019 when they called Mrs H to 
discuss her claim. During this call Mrs H says that the key she sent them must that been the 
key she thought her daughter had lost. But she thought shed sent them the key shed used 
to driver to her sisters house. She was questioned about how this key came to be found at 
the same time she lost the other key. She couldnt explain how this had happened or how 
the other key had come back into her possession. She said I know it sounds ridiculous, but 
its the only thing I think could have happened. She told esure shed searched her house, 
and her sisters, but hadnt been able to find the other key.  
In light of Mrs Hs concerns about the forensic report, we asked esure for their comments 
about the reliability of the report. Theyve told us that the reports are extremely reliable, the 
technology is quite sophisticated, and if there was any fault with the key an error message 
would have been flagged. 
Theyve also confirmed that the key Mrs H sent them was returned to her by special delivery 
on 2 August 2019 and signed for the following day. Mrs H has confirmed she has the key. 
When we asked her if shed taken, or wished to take, any steps to obtain her own report on 
the key, she told us that shes spoken to the manufacturer who told her key fobs can develop 
faults, and sometimes dont update. But to check for a fault with her key it would be 
necessary to have access to the cars software, which isnt possible.
esure have also now been able to provide a copy of the police report. This doesnt really add 
much to the information our investigator considered. It confirms that Mrs H reported the theft 
of her locked, parked car as having occurred between 6.30 pm on 3 March 2019 and 9.15 on 
4 March 2019. It provides no further information about the circumstances of the theft. But it 
does confirm that no CCTV footage was available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure declined Mrs Hs claim as they werent satisfied that the theft of her car happened as 
shed reported. In considering her complaint I need to be satisfied that esure carried out a 
reasonable investigation, that they obtained appropriate evidence and that this supports the 
decision they reached.The police report confirms that Mrs H reported to them that she parked her car on the 
evening of 3 March 2019, and it was missing the following morning. This is what she told to 
esure. It also states that there was no CCTV footage. So Im satisfied there wasnt any 
further evidence esure could have obtained which might confirm the exact circumstances of 
the theft.
Mrs H has told us that she never told esure that one of the original car keys had been lost. 
But thats not correct. Ive listened to the call esure made to her on 12 June 2019 to discuss 
their concerns about the key shed sent to them. Its clear from this call that Mrs H believed 
her daughter had lost one of the two original keys, about 18 months before, and that shed 
sent esure the other original key, which shed been using throughout this time, including to 
drive to her sisters on the day before the car was reported stolen.
The forensic report esure obtained says the key Mrs H sent to them hadnt been used since 
May 2018. 
Mrs H has told us she wanted to obtain her own report on the key, but hadnt been able to, 
as she didnt have the key. But she now acknowledges that esure returned the key to her in 
August 2019. When we asked her whether she still wished to obtain her own report Mrs H 
told us, shed been told by the manufacturer that key fobs sometimes develop faults and 
dont update. esure havent said that keys cant develop faults, but they say this would have 
been flagged when the key was tested, and the forensic report they obtained is considered 
very reliable.
Based on the evidence obtained by esure, Mrs H sent them a key which hadnt been used 
since May 2018, a key she says she believed had been lost, and shes unable to find the 
other key. During the call with esure on 12 June 2019 she accepts that its hard to believe 
the missing key was found, at the same time as the other key went missing. And she cant 
explain how this happened.
Mrs H has asked that I consider a newspaper article which states its easy for thieves to 
steal her make of car, without needing a key. Ive read the article as Mrs H asked me to. But 
the issue here, isnt whether someone could have gained access to Mrs Hs car without a 
key. esures concerns about her claim arise because the evidence theyve obtained, says 
the key she sent them, hadnt been used since May 2018. 
Mrs H cant explain, how she found this key after she reported her car had been stolen, and 
she cant provide, or explain whats happened to the other key. Shes suggested the key 
may be faulty, but hasnt provided any evidence to show it is, or to show the forensic report 
isnt accurate.
Because of their concerns about the key esure havent been able to verify Mrs Hs claim. 
While I have sympathy for Mrs H, I think esure carried out a reasonable investigation into her 
claim, and I persuaded the evidence they obtained doesnt support the account she 
provided. So I dont think they did anything wrong in declining her claim, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint 
against esure Insurance Limited trading as Shelias Wheels.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman