DRN-3774958
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund him the money
he lost as part of a safe account scam.
Background
Mr C has an account with Halifax. In May 2021, he was called by a man who claimed to be a
Halifax employee and a member of its specialist fraud team.
Mr C was told that someone had visited his local branch and attempted to gain access to his
account. He was told that CCTV footage showed that this individual didnt match Mr Cs
description. He was told that he needed to move his money into a safe account to make
sure that it couldnt be accessed. He was also told that there was a suspicion of internal
fraud by an employee of the bank. The caller explained that, if he made these payments in
accordance with their instructions, hed be assisting the bank with apprehending the
employee responsible for the fraud.
Unfortunately, this wasnt a genuine request. Mr C was speaking with a fraudster. The
fraudster reassured him that the request was genuine and suggested he reassure himself by
searching online using the term Halifax fraud  this would show that the number that Mr C
had taken the call from was genuinely that of the Halifax fraud team.
Mr C wasnt aware that it was possible for a fraudster to spoof a phone number and make it
look as if the call had genuinely been made from that number. Mr C made three payments
(£24500, £9000, and £15000 respectively) and applied for loan of £24,500 between the
second and third payment. Halifax has since agreed to refund the third payment. It says that
it shouldve recognised the enhanced fraud risk given that the instruction was given so soon
after Mr C had successfully applied for a loan. As I understand it, Mr C continues to make
the loan repayments.
When making the first payment online, Mr C saw the following warning:
[Name], do you know this person well? Well never call you to tell you to move your
money to another account. And well never call from the number on the back of your
card. If you get a call like this, hang up the phone.
Mr C proceeded with the payment despite the warning. He says that he doesnt recall seeing
it. Nonetheless, he was asked to call the bank before the payment could be processed. As
instructed by the scammer, he told the bank employee that the payment was being made to
a builder in connection with works that had already been completed. During the call, he was
asked several questions to determine whether there was a risk of a scam. The bank
employee discussed the risk of rogue trader scams and email interception scams.
At the end of the call, the bank employee said I need to make it clear that it is very unlikely
that we would be able to get this money back once it has left your account. Can you confirm
that this is a genuine payment and it is being made on your own instruction and not because
someone else has convinced you that this is what you need to do? Mr C confirmed that the
payment was genuine and so it was processed.
Mr C was told by the scammer that, after the payments had been made, he needed to visit
his local branch where he had an appointment with the manager. It was only when he
arrived at the branch and learned that no appointment existed that he realised he had fallen
victim to a scam.
Halifax investigated but declined to pay Mr C a full refund. It conceded that it shouldve
looked more closely at the third payment, particularly since it followed a loan application. But
overall, it considered that Mr C had been given clear warnings about the risks of fraud both
online and verbally. It said that its job in protecting him from fraud was made considerably
more difficult because Mr C lied about the purpose of the payment. It also thought that Mr C
shouldve found it strange to be asked to participate in an internal fraud investigation.
Mr C was unhappy with the response he received from Halifax and so he referred a
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The
Investigator thought that the warnings were sufficiently clear, and that Mr C shouldve
recognised that this must have been a scam.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. He said that he didnt recall seeing the
specific warnings, but that he was in such a state of panic at the time that he might not have
been able to process them and reflect on their contents.
Because Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me
to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued provisional findings on this complaint in August 2022. I explained my intended 
outcome in the following terms:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments when looking at whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. However, where the consumer made the payment because of the actions of 
a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
consumer even though they authorised the payment.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM 
code) is of particular significance here. Halifax is a signatory to that code. It requires 
its signatories to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax says that one or more of those 
exceptions are applicable in this case. Ive dealt with each exception in turn below.
Did Halifax give an effective warning?The CRM code says that, where a firm identifies a scam risk, it should take 
reasonable steps to provide its customer with effective warnings. To meet the 
standards required under the code, the warning needs to be (as a minimum) 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Mr C was provided with two warnings as part of the process of making his first 
payment  one was presented online and the second was given verbally when he 
called to request that the payment be released. The content of those warnings is set 
out in the background section above.
Effective warnings need to be impactful enough to overcome, or at least attempt to
overcome, the typical features of the type of scam they seek to prevent. I agree that 
this warning was, broadly speaking, relevant to the complaint. Mr C had received a 
call apparently from his bank and hed been asked to move his money.
It didnt say anything to give context to that statement  for example, Mr C wouldnt 
have realised that fraudsters might imitate the bank by creating a phony internal 
corruption investigation. It doesnt explain that fraudsters can spoof the banks 
contact numbers. Its also prefaced with the question do you know this person well? 
 this opening remark isnt relevant to the scam that had targeted Mr C. I think this 
attenuated the impact of the wording that followed because it made it seem less 
relevant. It's also significant that hed also been coached by the scammer to tell the 
bank that he was making the payment to a person that he did know.
The CRM code also says that an effective warning needs to include the appropriate 
action a customer can take to address the risk of a scam. This warning does say that 
Mr C should hang up, rather than continue with the call but it goes no further than 
that. I dont think that was sufficient to meet the requirements of the code.
Ive also considered the verbal warning that was given when Mr C called to ask for 
the payment to be released. The initial questions that were asked werent relevant to 
the scam, although I recognise that this was driven by the fact that Mr C gave false 
information when questioned about the purpose of the payment  something the 
scammer had insisted that he needed to do.
Its a commonly occurring feature of impersonation scams that customers are told 
that theyre assisting with an investigation into potential fraud by a bank employee. 
This means the customer starts from a position of distrusting the genuine bank 
employee because of what theyve been told by the fraudster. I dont think the 
warnings did enough to combat this distrust for the reasons Ive explained.
At the end of the call, Mr C was asked to confirm that he wasnt making the payment
because someone else had convinced him to do so. The questions hed been asked 
hadnt flagged the possibility that this was in connection with a safe account scam 
and the question was presented in a way that wouldve appeared to Mr C to be part 
of a box-ticking exercise.
I dont find it surprising that he wasnt fully engaged with the content of the question 
or that it didnt raise any doubts in his mind about the legitimacy of the payment he 
was making. Overall, in this particular case, while I accept Halifax did take steps to 
warn Mr C about impersonation scams, I dont think the warnings Halifax provided 
were strong enough to break the spell of the type of scam Mr C fell victim to and so 
Im not persuaded it provided effective warnings in compliance with the requirements 
of the CRM Code. This means the effective warning exception does not apply.Reasonable basis of belief
Halifax has also argued that a further exception applies under the code:
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the 
characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the 
APP scam, the Customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that  the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that he did have a reasonable 
basis for believing that the transaction was legitimate in all the circumstances at the 
time of the payment. Im satisfied that he sincerely believed that the call hed 
received was from a genuine Halifax employee. He took false confidence from the 
fact that the number that had called him was the same one that he found when 
carrying out an online search for its fraud team. Im satisfied he had no knowledge 
that number spoofing was possible and so he took the assurances from the scammer 
at face value.
Since he was confident that he was genuinely talking to an employee of his bank, he 
was more likely to take seriously the claim that he was assisting them with 
apprehending a corrupt employee. Halifax has suggested that it was implausible that 
Mr C would be recruited to assist with a fraud investigation and so he shouldve 
recognised that this couldnt have been a genuine request.
But there is a significant asymmetry of knowledge in play here. Theres no reason 
why Mr C wouldve known what processes Halifax would have in place to tackle the 
problem of internal fraud. To the layperson, I dont think this explanation was an 
inherently implausible one. I accept that Mr C gave several false answers to 
questions asked by the genuine bank employee. This made Halifaxs job 
considerably more difficult. But he genuinely believed that the previous call with the 
fraudster was with Halifax. And hed been coached into thinking that anyone he 
spoke to at the bank could plausibly be involved in committing fraud.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Halifax has done enough to establish that Mr C made 
this payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was transacting with a 
legitimate employee of the bank.
Should Halifax have done more to prevent the scam?
At the time Mr C made these payments, good industry practice demanded that 
Halifax have systems in place to spot unusual or out of character transactions or any 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud. In some circumstances, it 
was expected to take additional steps before processing a payment so as to protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm due to fraud.
Halifax clearly recognised that there was an enhanced risk of fraud associated with 
the first transaction because it did intervene. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded it did 
enough during that conversation to protect Mr C from fraud.
Earlier in this decision, I explained why I didnt find that the verbal warning given 
when Mr C called up to unblock the first payment was sufficient. The call handler 
asked several relevant closed questions that were driven by the false answers Mr C 
had given about the purpose of the payment.I think Halifax ought to have recognised the possibility that Mr C had been provided 
with a cover story or coached to not give honest answers to questions from the bank. 
If it had questioned Mr C in more detail about the payment and asked open 
questions, I find it likely that Mr C wouldve struggled to think on his feet to give 
convincing sounding answers. The coaching hed been provided by the scammer 
wasnt detailed and so I dont think it wouldve required much probing for the bank 
employee to recognise that Mr C wasnt being completely open about his reasons.
Overall, I think that there was a missed opportunity to prevent the scam at the point 
of the first payment. I think that, if Halifax had responded appropriately at the time, Mr 
C wouldnt have made the two subsequent payments or applied for a loan to fund 
them. I find that these later events were a direct consequence of its failure to prevent 
the scam from the outset.
I recommended that Halifax compensate Mr C in the following way:
Cancel the loan agreement that Mr C took out under the direction of the fraudster.
Refund to Mr C:
oThe payments Mr C made in connection with the fraud, except where they 
were funded by the proceeds of the loan.
oThe payments Mr C made in connection with the loan.
o8% simple interest per annum calculated to run from the date the payments 
were made until the date Lloyds pays a settlement.
Mr C agreed with my provisional findings, but Halifax didnt. Its response was detailed, but 
the key arguments it contained can be summarised as follows:
It doesnt agree that the preliminary question displayed at the top of the warning that 
Mr C saw diminishes its effectiveness, particularly given that the warning was fairly 
brief.
The warning was relevant to the scam in question because Mr C had been asked to 
move his money to another account. It unambiguously says that the bank will never 
do this.
Mr C says he doesnt remember the warning, but it was interactive. It wouldnt have 
been possible for him to proceed with the payment without properly engaging with 
the warning.
During the call between the bank and Mr C prior to the first payment being made, he 
gave an impression of confidence. There was nothing in his tone or demeanour to 
suggest a person at risk of financial harm.
When making the first and third payment, Mr C wouldve known from the 
Confirmation of Payee result that he was sending money to accounts operated by a 
different bank. He ought to have been concerned by that.
Ive reconsidered Mr Cs complaint in the light of the further representations made by Halifax. 
However, Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusion I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I accept that the warning contained some information that was relevant to the scam. If Mr C 
had processed it and reflected on its contents, he might have recognised that it was unlikely 
he was talking to a legitimate employee of the bank. Hes said he doesnt particularly recall 
the warning and that it must have escaped his attention because he was being rushed 
through the process by the scammer. But in any case, he was labouring under the misapprehension that the person he was talking 
to was an employee of the bank. Hed also been reassured that his account was in offline 
mode  and so none of the payment instructions he gave would really debit his account. It 
was simply a necessary part of the process for apprehending a corrupt employee. I think 
hed have responded similarly to any information displayed on the screen as a result of the 
Confirmation of Payee process.
In any event, notwithstanding any obligations Halifax has to retrospectively reimburse scam 
victims under the CRM Code, it didnt handle its initial telephone contact with Mr C well 
enough and so missed the opportunity to prevent the scam from taking place. Halifax has 
said that Mr C didnt give the impression of someone who was at risk of financial harm 
during that call and that there was nothing in his tone or demeanour to indicate otherwise.
I dont find this to be a particularly strong argument. He wasnt making the payment under 
duress, so I wouldnt have expected him to sound nervous or as if he was under pressure.
Hed been assured that, by following the instructions of the caller, his money would be safe, 
and hed help to apprehend a corrupt employee of the bank at the same time. I wouldnt 
expect there to be anything in his external behaviour to suggest that he was at risk of falling 
victim to a scam.
As I described in my provisional decision, I find that the payment was out of character for the 
account. The bank employee he spoke to asked him a series of closed questions, but he 
really shouldve been asked one or two open questions to probe the explanation Mr C gave 
as to why he was making this payment. This wouldve been far more effective in identifying 
that Mr C had been given a very superficial cover story and that hed really fallen under the 
spell of a scammer. I think that if Halifax had handled this call differently the deception 
wouldve unravelled, and Mr C wouldve been prevented from making the later payments 
and the loan application too.
Ive also considered whether Mr C can be considered partially responsible for his losses 
here. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence but also 
borne in mind the fact that I must reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. And having done so, Im satisfied that he shouldnt be considered partially 
responsible.
The scammers successfully convinced him he was talking with a senior employee in the 
banks fraud team. This was primarily achieved by spoofing a genuine contact number. Not 
all customers have the same level of knowledge. Other customers might not have taken this 
claim from the scammer at face value on that basis or they might have required the 
scammer to do more to convince them that the contact was genuine. Nonetheless, I dont 
think the fact that Mr C was taken in by these claims means that he was negligent.
In the round, I dont find that Mr C should bear any responsibility for the loss by way of 
contributory negligence. He was the victim of a relatively sophisticated scam and Im 
persuaded that he was unaware of the risks in making the payments he did. In view of 
Halifaxs considerably greater expertise, I think it shouldve done more than it did to protect 
him.
Putting things right
Halifax needs to put Mr C in the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt made the three 
payments to the scammer or taken out the loan. In response to the provisional decision, 
Halifax pointed out that the loan agreement was settled in December 2021 and the third 
payment has already been refunded.That means that in order to compensate Mr C fairly, it needs to refund the first two payments 
he made in connection with the scam and refunding any interest he paid on the loan up until 
the point a settlement is paid. It should add 8% simple interest per annum to these payments 
calculated to run from the date they left Mr Cs account until the date any settlement is paid 
to him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should now pay redress to Mr C in line with the 
guidance Ive provided above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman