DRN-2779518
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004 
when he applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mr L complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 2004 by completing a postal 
application form. He says he wasnt aware it had been added to his credit card account; but 
he also told us more recently that he thought his credit card application would be affected if 
he didnt buy the PPI. He says he didnt need it as he was in a secure job, was mortgage 
free, had other insurances and could rely on his parents.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr L disagreed with 
our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr L's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L's complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays Bank made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
Barclays Bank produced a copy of Mr L's credit card application. I can see there was a 
separate section of the form headed Barclaycard Payment Protection. 
I can see Mr L ticked the box which said Yes, I want my account with you to be covered 
against unemployment, accident, sickness and death. The box saying No, I do not require 
protection had been left blank. So as he had a choice, I think the form made it clear that 
PPI was optional.
He signed the form and entered his personal details and I noted he declined other offers on 
the form. So I think he completed the form diligently by only choosing the products he 
wanted. I think his signature means Barclays Bank probably made it clear that Mr L didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mr L was eligible to buy PPI. And Barclays Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, 
so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr L got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information given to Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could
have been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong because his 
sick pay may not have lasted as long as the PPI on a successful claim. So the PPI could 
have been useful if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job.
I noted he had other insurances, but the PPI was only for his credit card which left his other 
insurances to cover his other expenses. So I still think it would have useful for him.
Mr L also said his parents could have paid his credit card repayments. I do understand the 
point he is making, but there was no guarantee he could still rely on that support at some 
unknown point in the future. He also said he had a mortgage free house. But this was not 
an easily realisable asset to pay a monthly credit card bill, so I think the PPI could still have 
been useful for him at the time of the sale.
Barclays Bank should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I don't know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mr L was affected by the 
main exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont think it 
would have put him off from buying the PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mr L was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not 
going to uphold this complaint.
All of this means Barclays Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But Barclays Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Barclays Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Barclays Bank didnt tell Mr 
L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what he has said about his sick pay, 
other insurances, the support from his parents and his mortgage free house. But these 
points dont change my decision. So I am not going to uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman