DRN-3841846
The complaint
Mr E complains about the details of the contract hire agreement he took out through Lookers 
Motor Group Limited trading as Lomond Audi (Lookers) in 2021. 
What happened
Mr E was looking to acquire a new vehicle through Lookers in August 2021. The original 
vehicle order document completed was detailed with a price of £48,899, and it was said this 
order would be financed through a Personal contract hire arrangement with a preferred 
deposit of £5,191 and preferred monthly payments of £563. 
A week later on 3 September 2021, a further order document was completed. This showed a 
price of £44,838.15 and showed again that it would be financed through a personal contract 
hire agreement, but this time with a preferred deposit of £0 and preferred monthly payments 
of £563. 
At the same time as this, a contract hire finance agreement was completed and signed by Mr 
E. This showed that Mr E would be paying an advanced rental payment of £5088.85, 
followed by 35 monthly payments of £565.43. 
Mr E has told us that he hadnt heard from the finance company about his payments, but 
then in November 2021 they wrote to him saying that his first payment would be £6,219.71, 
which was the advanced rental plus two monthly rentals. 
In December 2021, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He said that he felt he should 
be paying what it said in his vehicle order and agreement form of 3 September 2021, so no 
deposit. He had contacted the finance provider who said they had simply done what the 
dealer had told them, and he had signed the finance agreement. He said he had contacted 
Lookers, but they hadnt responded. 
We forwarded his complaint to Lookers as they hadnt had chance to consider it and respond 
at that point. They issued a final response letter on 16 March 2022 not upholding the 
complaint. They said that on a personal contract hire, there isnt a deposit, but an advanced 
rental which would always be detailed on the finance agreement and confirmed that it was 
on the finance agreement Mr E had signed. 
Mr E followed up with them to query the details of the sale, as he was unclear why the price 
on the vehicle order forms had changed. They issued a further FRL on 22 March 2022, 
explaining that the difference in price was largely based on a dealer discount in the order 
document from 3 September 2021.
Mr E was unhappy with this and brought the complaint back to our service to review shortly 
afterwards. An investigator here investigated it and didnt uphold it. They said that he had 
signed the finance agreement confirming that there was an advanced payment, and as such, 
they didnt agree that Lookers had done anything wrong. 
Mr E said that he understood the issue with the hire agreement and how the investigator had 
reached their conclusion, but he wanted answers as to how he had a second vehicle order 
and agreement form with a considerably lower purchase price than the first one. He hadnt 
asked for a discount and wants to know why hes in possession of an agreement with a 
lower price than the original one.
The investigator explained that as they werent party to the conversations at the dealership, 
they cant comment on what was said or discussed, but that the paperwork showed a dealer 
discount had been applied. Further to this, they pointed out that as this was a hire 
agreement, the actual price of the vehicle wasnt relevant to Mr E. The finance agreement he 
accepted and signed said there was an advance rental of £5,088.85 followed by 35 monthly 
rentals of £565.43, and then the car would revert back to the finance company. So, the order 
price of the vehicle wasnt relevant. 
Mr E said he had agreed the deal based on the initial value, so wanted to know why he had 
an order form with a lower value on it. He hadnt asked for it or negotiated it and wanted to 
know why it had happened. He asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Weve confirmed for Mr E that if he has concerns about the delay in his payments starting 
up, he would need to complain separately about that, as we have confirmed that this issue 
wasnt to do with Lookers as the dealership. 
Mr E is complaining about the dealership involvement in this agreement. He feels that 
Lookers havent treated him fairly. The initial view given on the case focused on the contract 
hire finance agreement and the advanced payment, rather than a deposit. After the 
investigator explained why they felt Lookers hadnt done anything wrong, Mr E told us he 
understands this issue and how we had come to our view that it was fair. I will deal with this 
first however, to ensure I explain my findings on this. I will then move on to discuss his 
concerns about the vehicle price and Lookers. 
The Your Options for Vehicle Finance forms note that both contract hire, and personal 
contract purchase options were discussed. They note that contract hire was preferred. The 
form then explains the difference between personal contract purchase and personal contract 
hire. This includes the fact that an advanced payment which can vary is charged on the 
contract hire, rather than a customer deposit which would be charged on a personal contract 
purchase. 
On the day he ordered the vehicle, 3 September 2021, Mr E signed this form confirming he 
wanted a contract hire. On the form it notes down no deposit, as opposed to the form 
completed the week before which had a £5,191 deposit. However, there never would be a deposit on a hire agreement, as discussed above. Its possible that the original form had the 
deposit figure on it based on discussions about a Personal contract purchase agreement, 
but unfortunately, having not been present at the meetings Mr E had with the dealership, I 
cant say with any certainty whats happened here. But I am satisfied that both forms 
confirmed there wasnt a deposit on a contract hire, but an advanced payment would be 
required. And the second form, completed on the day he signed the finance agreement, 
replaces the original form.  
The finance agreement signed by Mr E on the same day shows an advance rental payment 
of £5,088.85. This works out at an advance rental payment of nine months (the forms 
confirm that the advanced payment would always be a number of monthly rentals). Mr E 
has signed the finance agreement to accept this. 
As such, I have no concerns here. The finance options forms say that any contract hire 
agreement will include an advanced rental payment of a number of advanced payments 
followed by fixed monthly payments for an agreed period. These details are laid out on the 
hire agreement which Mr E has signed to accept. So, I am satisfied that Mr E was given all 
the relevant information for the contract hire agreement and signed the paperwork to accept 
it. As such, the initial rental he was charged was fair, and Im not upholding this part of his 
complaint. 
Mr E is still concerned about the purchase price for the vehicle, and perceived changes to 
this that he wasnt aware of during the process. Im not sure if Mr Es concerns relate in 
some way to the customer service, or sales administration carried out by Lookers here, but 
that wouldnt be something I could make a finding on. As described above, his original 
complaint to us said that he didnt understand why hed been charged a deposit on the car 
finance agreement. I hope Ive explained above why this is the case, and why it was fair to 
do so. 
I will go on here to try to answer his concerns about the purchase price issue he 
subsequently raised, but Im only doing so in relation to the finance agreement he has 
signed. If he has any other concerns about this paperwork, he may want to consider whether 
there is a different complaint hes trying to raise, and that may not be a complaint our service 
can help with.   
Fundamentally, while its clear there are some differences in the order paperwork between 
his visits to the dealership, I dont agree that this makes any difference to the finance 
agreement he has signed. In a contract hire agreement, as is stated on the paperwork, you 
make a number of advanced payments, followed by fixed monthly payments for an agreed 
period. You then have to return the vehicle to the lender (subject to the agreed maximum 
mileage and vehicle condition).
So, the only relevant quotes here are what the advanced rental payment would be, and how 
much the monthly fixed rentals are, and for how long. That figure is what Mr E is being 
charged as per the hire agreement, and as the investigator pointed out, the total figure from 
the hire agreement is £24,878.92. Mr E is not paying a purchase price for the vehicle, and 
he has no option to ever own it. 
Mr E is not purchasing the car. Any figures quoted by Lookers on an order form are not 
relevant to the contract hire agreement Mr E has signed. In looking at the order forms, its 
clear that the original form from August has a balance due from customer equating 
probably to the deposit mentioned on the other paperwork as discussed. Theres also a 
price increase mentioned on the August order form. Whereas by the time the second form is 
generated, on the day he signed the hire agreement for the vehicle, a dealer discount has 
appeared instead of the price increase, but there is no deposit. None of this relates to what Mr E has to actually pay. The numbers are slightly different on 
the order forms, but we dont have a finance agreement from August 2021 to compare to the 
hire agreement signed on 3 September 2021. This is simply because Mr E didnt go ahead 
with any quoted finance agreement at that point. But the basic vehicle price on each form is 
the same.
The difference in figures that Mr E refers to isnt a difference in price to him. Its most likely 
just Lookers changing the figures in the background, to ensure the hire agreement price 
theyve quoted him can be achieved. Theres a smaller difference in the balance to finance 
on the order forms of £1,129.95. 
This might have been influenced by the expected value of the vehicle changing at the end of 
the contract with the quote having clicked over to a different month, August to September 
2021. Or it might have been influenced by something like the interest rates available 
changing. It could have been influenced by other unknown factors. But Im not concerned 
with why this has happened, because the only important thing is that this has had no impact 
on Mr Es hire agreement.  
In processing Mr Es hire agreement on 3 September 2021, Lookers have noted on the 
vehicle order form that the balance to finance is £44,838.15. But as Ive said above, this isnt 
what Mr E is paying. His total outlay for the hire contract will remain £24,878.92. Something 
has changed in the background from the first paperwork in August, to the final paperwork 
completed on 3 September 2021. But the price for the vehicle is in reality commercial terms 
between the dealership and the manufacturer/supplier. Because its Lookers that are 
buying the car, not Mr E.   
Lookers answer provided on 22 March 2022 explains the dealer discount was applied, and 
that these figures can vary slightly over a period of negotiations for various reasons. They 
also confirmed that while the original paperwork talked about £563 per month payments, Mr 
E had signed to accept the slightly different figure of £565.43 per month. Again, I am 
satisfied this small difference is fair and was communicated to Mr E on the hire agreement, 
and he signed to accept it. 
Lookers havent explained the details of these small differences in price on the order forms, 
but Im not persuaded they should have to. Mr E has told us he noticed these during the 
negotiations, and queried it, and now isnt satisfied with the answer they gave. But if that was 
the case, and it concerned him, Id have expected him to have chosen not to sign the hire 
agreement. He said he considered the difference and signed to accept it. 
Im not clear on what basis Mr E has concerns about this process therefore, or the numbers 
presented to him. As an Ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service, my duty is to 
investigate and answer concerns about fairness or errors in relation to the finance 
agreement Mr E entered into. So, Ive focused my answers on that agreement, and whether 
whats happened has had any impact on this. I am satisfied that this has had no impact on 
Mr Es hire agreement, and he hasnt suffered any detriment from whats gone on. 
He says that he has a final signed document that differs from his original agreement. But 
there is only one finance agreement, which is the hire agreement which confirms what he will 
have to pay. The vehicle order and agreement forms dont detail what Mr E will have to 
pay; this only appears on the hire agreement, and there is only one hire agreement that was 
produced and signed by both parties. 
I am satisfied that any variance in price is most likely based on background changes to 
Lookers in the costs to acquire the car, and then to supply it to the finance company for them 
to hire it to Mr E. Mr E has accepted the hire agreement which details the advanced rental cost and the monthly payments that follow on from that. On this basis, Im satisfied Lookers 
have done nothing wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman