DRN-4154357
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit card 
application and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr R applied for a credit card with MBNA. In Mr Rs application he said he 
was earning £20,000 a year but gave no living costs. MBNA completed a credit check and 
found Mr R had around £5,200 of unsecured credit that was well maintained, without arrears. 
No adverse credit was found on Mr Rs credit file. 
MBNA says it applied its lending criteria to the information provided by Mr R in his 
application and the details found on his credit file and approved it with a limit of £3,000. 
Mr R used the credit card for spending and a balance transfer. The payments were 
maintained and in October 2019 MBNA increased the credit limit to £5,400. MBNA says the 
credit limit increase was approved in line with its lending criteria. Mr R continued to make the 
minimum payment each month and in October 2021 MBNA withdrew the spending facility on 
his credit card as it was in a persistent debt position. 
Last year Mr R complained that MBNA had lent irresponsibly when lending to him. MBNA 
issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs case and upheld it. Whilst they thought the 
decision to approve the original credit card application was reasonable, the investigator 
thought MBNA had lent irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit to £5,400 in October 
2019. MBNA didnt agree and said the credit limit increase had been approved in line with its 
lending criteria and relevant regulations. As MBNA asked to appeal, Mr Rs complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Mr Rs told us he was made bankrupt in 2008 and is concerned that MBNA still approved his 
credit card application in 2018. But information about bankruptcy is only shown on a credit 
file for six years. So when Mr R applied in 2018 the information about his bankruptcy 
wouldnt have been visible to MBNA. 
Ive looked at the information MBNA used when it assessed Mr Rs application in 2018. I can 
see that Mr R gave an income of £20,000 and said he was employed. I understand Mr Rs 
income wasnt in line with the details provided throughout his lending relationship with 
MBNA. But I think its fair to say the income figure given wasnt unusually high to the point Id 
have expected MBNA to carry out further checks. MBNAs advised it used bureau data for 
Mr Rs regular outgoings, including rent and living expenses, and approved the original credit 
card application in line with its lending criteria. 
Ive taken all the available information into account and Im satisfied MBNA did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks when looking at Mr Rs original application. I havent 
been persuaded MBNA lent irresponsibly. 
MBNA increased Mr Rs credit limit to £5,400 in October 2019. In my view, there were signs 
at this point that Mr R was becoming reliant on credit to make ends meet. And I think these 
shouldve caused MBNA to carry out more comprehensive checks before deciding whether 
to offer borrowing. Ill explain why. 
Following Mr Rs original application in January 2018, he went on to secure a reasonable 
level of further credit with other lenders. I can see that Mr R opened three new credit cards 
and a hire purchase agreement in the months following the original application. In my view, 
the reasonably sharp increase in unsecured credit ought to have caused MBNA to consider 
whether increasing Mr Rs borrowing by a further £2,400 was sustainable. 
As Ive noted above, theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. One option 
MBNA had was to review Mr Rs circumstances by looking at his bank statements. Ive 
looked at the statements in the months before the credit limit increase was approved. The 
bank statements dont show a regular income, in line with the details recorded in Mr Rs 
application. In addition, the statements show a high level of outgoings to service unsecured 
debt without any clear surplus income to support further borrowing. In short, Im satisfied that 
if MBNA had completed better checks it wouldve found Mr R wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay further credit and decided not to proceed with the credit limit increase in 
October 2019. In my view, MBNA lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increase 
to £5,400. 
As Im satisfied MBNA lent irresponsibly, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct MBNA Limited to settle as follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurance (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £3,000
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr R along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. MBNA should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
October 2019 regarding the account from Mr Rs credit file
- Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £3,000, MBNA should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr R for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
R has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
October 2019 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman