DRN-2227174
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled his home 
insurance claim. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining that I wasnt satisfied Lloyds had 
handled Mr Fs claim promptly and fairly. And, as such, I was minded to determine that fair 
compensation to reflect the impact on him should be £500. Lloyds has replied disagreeing 
with my provisional decision stating that its original offer of £150 was fair and in line with a 
similar case weve previously decided.
Briefly, the background to the complaint concerns how Lloyds contractors handled the 
inspection of Mr Fs property after an escape of water. The contractor assessed the damage 
and offered a cash settlement to Mr F, which he rejected. Mr F said Lloyds contractor didnt 
consider unseen damage potentially caused by the water leak. He was asked to arrange his 
own quotes and after some back and forth negotiations, Lloyds appointed a personal claim 
consultant to handle things and review the whole claim. It eventually agreed to Mr Fs 
quotations and settled the claim.
Lloyds investigated Mr Fs complaint about the handling and delay and accepted there had 
been some delays to the claim progress. It offered £150 for any trouble and upset caused.
In my provisional decision I said the following;
Lloyds policy booklet states that if a claim is complicated, it can send a personal claims
consultant to the customers home to help them with their claim. Lloyds now accepts that it
should have appointed a claims consultant earlier in the process and made a mistake by not
doing so. This mistake caused delays of around eight weeks to the settlement of the claim.
Mr F explains that during this time his property had a damp smell in many of the rooms,
although he still had use of the rooms. The damp smell would certainly have been
unpleasant and he also experienced inconvenience having to take time out of work to
arrange quotations for the repair work in order to negotiate with the initial offers made by
Lloyds.
Lloyds duty is to handle claims promptly and fairly and Im not satisfied it did this. Given the
information about the claim that Mr F conveyed to Lloyds, Im persuaded that a more in-
depth inspection was appropriate from the outset. This is because water leaks escape to
areas that simply cant always be seen by a surface or superficial inspection. And handling a
claim fairly, in my view, means that the insurer should use its knowledge and expertise to
ensure that it fully scopes a claim. Lloyds will know from its vast experience as a home
insurer of the extent of damage leaking water can cause. Im not satisfied Lloyds handled the
claim fairly.
The failure in handling the claim fairly from the outset led to delays and so issues werent
handled promptly either. To a large extent Mr F managed much of the claim personally,
obtaining estimates because of Lloyds initial poor handling and eventually instructing repair
work because of Lloyds delay. Indeed, Mr Fs estimates and later contractual price for
repairs was less than Lloyds eventual fully scoped and priced. I am satisfied that Mr F was
caused inconvenience because of Lloyds failures and so, a compensatory award is fair. But
because of the work Mr F had to undertake as a consequence of Lloyds failures Im satisfied
£500 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In reply, Lloyds has cited a case we previously issued a final decision on. In that case there 
was a delay of around 12 weeks and the ombudsman made an award of £250 
compensation. Lloyds reply also points out that Mr F didnt originally provide quote from a 
genuine contractor, but rather he had costed it himself. And once Mr F provided genuine 
quotations it appointed a personal claims consultant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue at the heart of the complaint concerns compensation. We look at cases on their 
own merits and factual basis. The example case Lloyds has presented in its reply concerned 
an unoccupied property that a consumer had been refurbishing to sell on. Its apparent they 
werent living in the damaged home and so the impact of delay on a day to day basis is not 
analogous to Mr Fs complaint. So, I find it of little support to the points Lloyds has raised in 
its reply to my provisional decision. 
As noted in my provisional decision the delay occurred because of Lloyds initial failure to 
handle the claim fairly. The appointed contractor carried out a cursory surface inspection of 
visible damage. I found that unfair given Lloyds experience in dealing with similar claims 
where water damage goes beyond what is immediately visible. And it was because of this 
that delay began and meant Mr F was involved in trying to assess and cost the extent of the 
damage. That was Lloyds contractors function and one it didnt carry out properly. 
Mr F has said he had to live with the smell of damp daily unnecessarily for those eight weeks 
of delay and had to price the job himself when thats what Lloyds should have done. The 
reasons why Im satisfied £500 compensation as provisionally found remain fair include this 
day to day living with damp smell, and the unnecessary hassle and inconvenience Mr F was 
put to because Lloyds didnt do things right in the first place. Its apparent from Lloyds 
contact notes that the contractors position wasnt clear and so I appreciate why Mr F was so 
apparently frustrated as is evident in those contact notes.
I remain satisfied that £500 is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr F £500 
compensation (an increase of £350 on its original offer).
Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman