DRN-3410805
The complaint
Mr P is represented and his representative complains on his behalf that Aviva Life & 
Pensions Ltd (Aviva) allowed his pension transfer to proceed in 2014 without warning him 
about the risk factors in doing so.
Mr P also complains that Aviva undertook this a pension transfer to a London & Colonial 
(L&C)/STM Fidecs Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) in 2014 
when, as a regulated business, it should have been aware of the initiative to prevent pension 
scams. 
Mr Ps representative submitted that the involvement of unregulated introducers and 
unauthorised advisers, an overseas pension scheme, being cold called, Mr P not receiving 
regulated advice, being recommended an unregulated and high risk investment and Mr P 
being told that he would achieve unrealistic returns, were warning signs. And if Aviva had 
contacted Mr P to discuss these issues he would not have proceeded with the transfer.
 
What happened
Mr Ps representative says he was cold called by a business called 
wefindanypensions.com. It offered a free pension review. He gave that business his 
authority to request pension details and these details were obtained in November 2013. He 
was then put in touch with a business called Global Partners Limited (GPL) who were based 
in Gibraltar. He says he was told that his existing arrangements were frozen and not 
generating any returns. 
Mr Ps representative says Mr P was told that if he transferred his pensions elsewhere he 
would obtain better returns. It says Mr P says that he no knowledge of what investments 
would subsequently be chosen, apart from it would be stocks and shares. It says that Mr P 
was not informed of any risk to his pension and was told the recommendations were safe. 
He says he wasnt intending to live abroad but was advised to transfer to a QROPS. It 
confirms that Mr P thought the adviser was trustworthy professional. 
Mr P agreed to the transfer and his pension fund was transferred to the QROPS in 
November 2014. The money was then invested in the Trafalgar Multi Asset Fund (TMAF). 
This has now failed and it is likely that Mr P has lost most, if not all, of the money invested. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said: 
It received a Letter of Authority (LOA) from wefindanypensions.com on 25 November 
2013. The LOA confirmed that wefindanypensions.com were working on behalf of a 
regulated business which had an FCA registration number. 
It then received a LOA from GPL on 13 January 2014 seeking to act for Mr P. It 
rejected that request as GPL wasnt regulated in the UK - it did not provide any 
pension details to GPL. It sent a letter to Mr P confirming that. 
On 29 May 2014 it received a transfer request from L&C. Once it had received the 
necessary information to fulfil its requirements it called Mr P to ask him some 
questions. It says it asked the following questions and received the following replies:
1.Why is he transferring to the comp, he is not residing? (sic) Answer: Future 
prospects
2. What are the extra benefits he is getting apart from 25% TFC & Annuity? Answer: 
Rates are cheaper & he is getting other benefits with them. However, he was not 
sure about the terms.
3. What age he wishes to take benefits from the new R/S policy? Answer: He has not 
made up his mind yet however, as of now he is planning to take at age 65Yrs.
It checked that the L&C pension scheme was listed as a valid QROPS  by HMRC as 
at 12 November 2014 (the list was last updated on 1 November 2014).
It believes the transfer was appropriate.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered the complaint. He 
didnt believe it should be upheld. He thought that Aviva had met its responsibilities and 
obligations regarding the pension transfer. And after the contact that Aviva made with Mr P, 
he didnt think any further action by Aviva would have altered the situation Mr P is in now.  
Mr Ps representative dd not accept the investigators assessment. In summary it said: 
There is no evidence that Mr P would have proceeded with the transfer if given 
sufficient risk warnings. There is very little evidence to back up the claims that Aviva 
had made. 
wefindanypensions.com had a vested interest in not providing risk warnings.
The transferring scheme has an overriding legal duty of care: COBS 2.1.1 requires 
an authorised firm carrying out designated investment business for a retail client to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client". This means that it is obliged to ensure that Mr P received the risk warnings 
that were standard within the industry at that time. Not doing so and providing 
information to an unauthorised third party lacked professionalism contrary to COBS 
2.1.1. The transferring scheme's actions also contravene PRIN 6 of FCA Handbook, 
namely that it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers. It was conjecture 
to assume what Mr P may or may not have received  and that is therefore not a 
relevant consideration and should be disregarded.
Aviva doesnt have evidence of it refusing to supply pension information to an 
unregulated firm. This also shows an inconsistency in Avivas process when dealing 
with information requests, as wefindanypensions.com was also an unregulated firm. 
Aviva took the inclusion of an FCA regulated firm on the LOA at face value without 
confirming with the regulated firm or the client that they would be involved in his 
transfer. This second LOA request within 3 months of the first should have also 
highlighted to Aviva that Mr P was possibly being targeted. 
There is no evidence of the call Aviva said it made to Mr P and Mr P says he does 
not recall receiving such a call. 
There may be an argument that undue pressure was being applied to the transfer 
bearing in mind the amount of calls that were made by the receiving scheme after the 
transfer documents had been sent to Aviva. This should have raised a red flag and 
been highlighted to Mr P. 
Mr Ps answer to question 2 (above) should have also prompted further questioning 
as it was clear that Mr P was not clear on the terms of the receiving scheme. 
There is a lack of evidence that the Scorpion Leaflet was provided directly to Mr P.Due to the established conflict of interests, the unregulated third party's assertions 
relating to the provision of risk warnings should be disregarded. The unregulated 
third party should be treated as not having provided any risk warnings where there is 
any doubt as to whether these were provided.
Mr Ps assertion that he was not provided with the Scorpion leaflet should be treated 
as fact. 
Mr Ps representative asked that, if the investigator was not persuaded to change their view, 
that the complaint should be passed to an ombudsman. Therefore the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment Aviva was 
operating in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as 
any rules and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like Aviva are regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the Scorpion campaign, personal pension
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the Scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, 
and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned 
about the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation.
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow.
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers thatencouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as Aviva.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives,
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did Aviva follow the relevant guidance and rules?Aviva received a request from wefindanypensions.com dated 21 November 2013. This 
enclosed an authority from Mr P to request information about his pension. 
wefindanypension.com requested a Discharge Pack including projections and an up to date 
transfer value. The LOA, which Mr P has signed, set out that the request was being made 
on behalf of a regulated financial adviser  and recorded the financial advisers FCA 
registration number. 
Aviva sent a letter to wefindanypension.com dated 20 November 2013. This set out the 
current value of Mr Ps pension and also provided a Transfer Payment Release Form. The 
letter said it enclosed a Transfer warning Insert for occupational and pension products. It 
set out that a copy of the letter had been sent to Mr P. The copy of the letter I have seen 
attached a  Predators stalk your pension leaflet (the leaflet) from the Pensions Advisory 
Service.
Mr Ps representative has suggested that Mr P wasnt sent the leaflet but the evidence is that 
he was sent the leaflet directly by Aviva. I dont believe it correct to term this conjecture. I 
arrive at a decision as to what is more likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities based on the available evidence. And the evidence is that it is more likely that 
Mr P was sent the leaflet.    
Furthermore Mr P was transferring pensions from other providers at the same time as his 
Aviva transfer. Mr P has also complained about these transfers and they have been 
considered by this service. Mr P was provided with the leaflet by another provider at the 
same time  so the persuasive evidence is that he was provided with a leaflet at the time. So 
whether wefindanypensions.com or GPL separately provided such information to Mr P does 
not affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Subsequently GPL requested an up to date transfer value from Aviva but that was rejected 
by Aviva. 
Then L&C sent a letter to Aviva dated 19 May 2014. That requested that a transfer payment 
was made to it in respect of Mr Ps pension. The letter enclosed documents for arranging a 
transfer to a QROPS.  Further correspondence followed between L&C and Aviva to arrange 
the transfer.  
Aviva then checked that the L&C QROPS was registered with HMRC as a QROPS that met 
the relevant criteria. 
The transfer was then actioned in November 2014. 
As discussed, Mr P was more likely provided with the leaflet. This leaflet was primarily 
warning of the danger of unlocking cash from pensions early (pension liberation). It warned 
about receiving loans or cash incentives. It said that consumers should watch out for being 
approached out of the blue, introducers who offer cash incentives, companies offering loans 
and not being informed about the tax consequences. It went on to discuss Five steps to 
avoid, which included finding out about the companys background, setting out that any 
advisers should be registered with the FCA and speaking to an adviser not associated with 
the proposal received. 
It should be noted that there is no evidence here of pension liberation occurring or Mr P 
being provided with loans or cash incentives. The evidence is that Mr P was advised or 
guided to transfer his pensions to a QROPS to put his money in a particular investment. In 
general there is nothing untoward about that and many individuals choose to change pension and make different investments. The QROPS might not have been the most suitable 
product for Mr P and the investment itself may well have been flawed, but Avivas 
responsibilities did not extend to assessing the suitability of the transfer for Mr P. It was not 
advising him. 
As Mr P was provided with the leaflet (more likely on two separate occasions), he was or 
should have been aware of its content. The leaflet set out the warning sign of being 
approached out of the blue or cold-called. It also suggested that he find out about the 
companys (who advised him) background and speaking to an unrelated adviser. But Mr P 
proceeded with his transfer (in fact more than one transfer) despite having that information. 
 
However, as set out above, Mr Ps representative says there are additional reasons why 
Aviva should have taken further steps to warn Mr P about the transfer. Materially this was 
because of the transfer overseas, being cold called, Mr P not receiving regulated advice, 
being recommended an unregulated and high investment and Mr P being told that he would 
achieve unrealistic returns. A transfer overseas was one of the matters listed in the TPR 
action pack (referred to above) as being a potential warning sign. So it could be argued that 
Aviva should have then contacted Mr P to warn him about pension liberation and discuss the 
situation with him further. 
Aviva said that it did call Mr P to discuss the transfer and asked the questions set out above. 
So it did take some additional steps to check that Mr P understood what he was doing. Aviva 
has said that, due to the passage of time, it no longer holds a copy of that telephone call. I 
find it more likely than not that Aviva did make that call  it is more unlikely that such specific 
record of a conversation was in some way created without it actually occurring. 
In any event, Mr P had been provided with the leaflet which warned about liberation and that 
being contacted out of the blue was a warning sign. Mr P proceeded with the transfer in any 
event. Mr P was not accessing cash from his pension and so the primary risk discussed in 
the literature was not present. Mr P was of the view he was receiving advice and/or guidance 
from an adviser  GPL  an authorised adviser regulated by the Financial Services 
Commission in Gibraltar.  Furthermore the QROPS itself was an established scheme from 
an established pension provider. I dont believe there was anything of concern in the choice 
of QROPS provider. 
So, it is probable that any concerns Mr P had were likely allayed in the circumstances. He 
was receiving advice from a, on the face of, it authorised adviser and was not participating in 
the type of scheme or arrangement that the Scorpion literature discussed. Mr P was only 
transferring his pension to invest, something that was not unusual. Aviva was limited in what 
it discuss with Mr P  it was not advising him and could only realistically set out factual 
matters he might want to think about. Which could have included thinking about the nature of 
a QROPS and any subsequent investments that were to be made. Given that GPL was 
authorised in the EEA, it would not have been appropriate for Aviva to make any negative 
comment about its involvement  and I do not believe it would have done so. It was not for 
Aviva to assess the suitability of that transfer or the investment or assess the risk of the 
investment for Mr P.
The way in which Aviva dealt with GPL and wefindanypensions.com, in terms of it providing 
information to the latter but not the former, would not affect that. But I would say that it is not 
inconsistent to treat them differently on the face of it because, as Aviva says, the evidence it 
received was that one of those entities was representing a UK regulated business, whereas 
one was not. It could have specifically interrogated the connection between 
wefindanypensions.com and the financial adviser recorded on the LOA but I do not believe 
Aviva acted incorrectly in proceeding as it did in the specific circumstances  there was no particular reason at the time to suspect that wasnt correct. The fact that Aviva treated GPL 
differently is evidence that Aviva was taking steps to safeguard inappropriate action. And 
there is evidence it did that. There is a note from the time on its records that it had refused 
the information request from GPL. 
I have taken into account all the evidence, I believe that Aviva acted appropriately in terms of 
the transfer and carried out adequate checks. I dont believe it breached the requirement to 
act in Mr Ps best interests as is suggested. Mr P may well have lost out as a result of the 
transfer because of the actions of third parties and that is very unfortunate. But in these 
specific circumstances I dont believe Aviva has caused that or is responsible for that loss. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman