DRN-1519556
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
store Chargecard account. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill just refer to 
Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Miss W opened the account and took out the PPI policy in 1993 whilst out shopping. The 
policy protected Miss W in the event she couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It also included life cover and wouldve cleared the card in the event of 
death. 
Miss W is mainly concerned that she was sold the PPI by a shop assistant who had no 
knowledge of financial products and didnt explain things. Miss W said that she was 
instructed to tick the box as part of applying for the card and if the policy had been explained 
in any detail she wouldnt have taken it out as she didn't need it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable to expect Miss W to remember exactly what was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold this complaint just based on the way Miss W says she was sold PPI. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I think Allianz made Miss W aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Ive seen the application form Miss W completed. She ticked the box for PPI and put her 
name in the box indicating she would be the person insured.
Miss W couldve left the PPI part of the form blank if she didnt want the policy. And I think 
she wouldve understood this because I can see that she crossed through the tick boxes for 
some other optional features she couldve taken out with her card. So it looks to me like she chose to take out the PPI  knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted it. Its easy to 
understand that Miss W mightve forgotten this now, given that she completed the 
application so long ago. 
As Miss W took out PPI whilst out shopping, I dont think its likely that Allianz personally 
recommended the policy to her  and Allianz says it didnt advise Miss W to buy the policy. 
But it still needed to give Miss W enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to buy the policy.
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss W mightve got. And it wouldve 
paid out until Miss Ws outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she 
went back to work. This wouldve given her peace of mind, and allowed her to use any 
payments from work (if her employer paid sick pay) to meet other expenses at whats likely 
to have been a difficult time for her.  
It isnt clear how long she wouldve been paid sick pay  if at all. 
The policy would also have paid out if shed lost her job. 
Ive taken into account what Miss W told us about her home circumstances. But relying on 
other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And Miss W told us that she had less than 3 months worth of savings or other insurance she 
couldve relied on to make the monthly repayments on her card if she wasnt working.
So I think the policy couldve been useful to Miss W and she couldve benefitted from having 
PPI.  
Its possible the information Allianz gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss W chose to take out the policy when she didn't have to and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover  but it doesnt look to me as if Miss W was 
affected by any of those exclusions or limitations. So having more information about things 
the policy didnt cover isnt likely to have put her off taking it out.
Theres some information about how much Miss W would pay for the policy on the 
application form she completed. I think that Allianz couldve explained the cost and benefits 
of the policy more clearly. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss W couldnt afford to 
pay for it. And she couldve cancelled the policy if her circumstances had changed and 
paying for the cover became unaffordable for her. 
Looking at the overall benefits the policy offered Miss W in her particular situation, I think it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think Miss W would still have taken out the policy.
This means I cant fairly say that Miss W is any worse off as a result of anything Allianz did 
wrong, so it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman