DRN-2587833
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that MetLife Europe d.a.c has administered his personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out three MultiProtect medical insurance policies through a broker, which Ill call B. 
Two of those policies included an Active Lifestyle benefit, but the third didnt. Mr S called 
MetLife in May 2020 to query his cover levels and learned that the third policy didnt include 
the Active Lifestyle cover. He queried whether MetLife could add the Active Lifestyle benefit 
to his existing policy, but MetLife explained this wasnt possible. So he took out a new policy 
in June 2020, which included Active Lifestyle cover. And he subsequently cancelled the 
original third policy. 
Unhappy with the way his policy had been administered, Mr S asked us to look into his 
complaint. He felt it was unfair that MetLife hadnt agreed to add the Active Lifestyle benefit 
to his existing policy. And he was also unhappy because the policy included a 12-month 
deferral period before a policyholder would be entitled to make a hospitalisation claim. He 
felt it was unfair that by taking out a new policy, this deferral period would restart. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms and 
conditions made it clear that benefits couldnt be added to a policy once it had begun. So he 
didnt think MetLife had done anything wrong by refusing to add Active Lifestyle cover to    
Mr S existing policy.
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he felt MetLifes policy terms were unfair. He considered that 
hed effectively been penalised for taking out more cover, as he wouldnt be covered for 
hospitalisation benefit during the deferred period.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think MetLife has done anything wrong that it needs to put right. Ill 
explain why.
As the investigator explained, were not the industry regulator. We have no power to tell a 
financial business we cover to change its processes or procedures. Our role is to consider 
individual complaints brought by consumers against financial businesses to decide whether 
the business has done anything wrong, and if so, whether it needs to put anything right.
Its also important I point out that MetLife didnt sell Mr S policies. If Mr S feels that B mis-
sold his policies or didnt arrange them in the way he asked it to, this is something hed need 
to raise with B before we can potentially look into the issue. So this decision wont comment 
on how Mr S original policies were sold to him.
I appreciate how frustrating it mustve been for Mr S when he learned that his third policy 
didnt include Active Lifestyle benefit. I also understand that he wouldve been disappointed 
when MetLife told Mr S it couldnt add this cover to his existing policy. But in making my 
decision, I need to consider whether MetLife did anything wrong.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr S contract with MetLife. 
The Active Lifestyle section of the policy states:
At the point of taking out your policy you can select Active Lifestyle Cover. You cannot 
select this cover at a later date. The number of units for Active Lifestyle cover must equal the 
number of units you have under your policy.
So I think the policy makes it clear that MetLife doesnt allow Active Lifestyle Cover to be 
added to a policy after its been taken out. The contract also includes a section called 
Changes to the policy or your premium which says: You cannot increase the number of 
units under this policy but you may be able to take out a further policy.
In my view, MetLife has clearly set out that it wont allow unit increases or Active Lifestyle 
cover once a policys in force. Its told us this is a commercial decision by its product team. 
We wont generally interfere with a business commercial judgement unless we think a 
consumer has been singled out in any way. In this case, MetLife doesnt allow any of its 
customers to add Active Lifestyle cover once a policys been taken out. So I dont think its 
treated Mr S any differently to its other policyholders or singled him out in any way. This 
means I dont think its treated him unfairly.
I understand Mr S also says that MetLife didnt explain that if he took out a new policy, the 
hospitalisation benefit deferral period would restart. Ive thought about this. But Mr S 
cancelled his original contract with MetLife and began a new policy. So any cover he had 
under the old policy ended. I think the policy paperwork makes it sufficiently clear that the 
hospitalisation benefit is deferred for a 12-month period. And MetLife has made a 
commercial decision not to allow Mr S to take into account time he accrued for his first policy 
to reduce his deferral period under the new policy. Again, its told us this isnt something its 
able to offer. So this means I dont think its treated Mr S any differently to any of its other 
customers. It follows then that I dont think its treated him unfairly.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr S position, I dont think MetLife has done anything wrong 
which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman