DRN-4489465
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted and removed funds from his 
account and put it in a false overdrawn position without warning nor explanation. Mr M also 
complains that after unrestricting his account, Barclays closed it with immediate effect and 
provided poor customer service throughout.
To put things right, Mr M wants Barclays to give meaningful and proportionate compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. And an explanation for its actions.
What happened
On 13 July 2022, following an internal review, Barclays removed the funds, around £26,500, 
in Mr Ms account and put it on an overdrawn position of around £500,000. Barclays also 
restricted his access to the account.
Mr M discovered what had happened on the same day and says he spent most of the day 
trying to speak to someone about what had happened  and why Barclays had taken this 
action. Mr M says discovering his funds had gone, and the overdraft position of the account, 
caused him severe distress.
Mr M complained about Barclays actions and continued to try and seek answers about what 
it had done. Mr M sought assistance with his complaint from his local Member of Parliament 
(MP), and Barclays sent its final response to them.
Barclays did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary, it made the following points:
- Its review required it to remove the account balance and place it in an overdrawn 
position
- The review was completed on 25 July 2022, and the account has been returned to its 
original state. Mr M has since been using the account
- In taking these actions, Barclays was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. And because of this, its unable to share any further details about the 
review
Unhappy with Barclays answer, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Mr M added that 
he had made several calls to Barclays and visited its branch but kept getting meaningless 
answers. He says he spent many hours trying to sort matters out and only found out his 
regular standing orders and direct debit payments werent being paid through his creditors. 
So he had to sort out the payments himself directly with creditors causing significant 
inconvenience.
Mr M also says his state pension wasnt credited into his account due to the restrictions 
Barclays placed on his account. One of Barclays complaint handlers made Mr M an offer of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him - which he didnt accept. 
On 2 August 2022, Barclays sent Mr M a letter notifying him that his account has been 
closed with immediate effect in line with the terms of the account. Mr M was told that 
Barclays was under no obligation to give him a reason for the closure. Mr M later withdrew 
his funds from a branch.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. They recommended the complaint 
isnt upheld. In sort, they made the following key findings:
- Barclays is entitled to block and close accounts immediately in certain circumstances 
in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. This service cant compel 
it to give Mr M a reason for doing so
- Barclays block and investigation lasted 13 days  this is not an unreasonable 
amount of time for such an investigation
- Mr M complains Barclays wouldnt pay any of his regular payments, but Barclays was 
entitled to block the account which meant all activity on the account ceased
- Mr M had one pension payment he was unable to access during the block, but 
Barclays says he would have been able to access this with two forms of ID in branch
- Barclays acted reasonably by sending its complaint response to Mr Ms MP given 
they were representing him
Mr M did not agree with what our Investigator said. Amongst points already raised, Mr M 
says Barclays actions were not justified based on either its regulatory obligations or 
common decency. Mr M also questions why his account had to be placed in an overdrawn 
position of £500,000 and why it couldnt just be set to nil balance.
Mr M says he was told he could apply for his money with two forms of ID. He tried that and 
was told it should take the branch a day to get a release code  but it took five days. Mr M 
also adds he didnt appoint anyone to represent him.
As Mr M didnt agree, this complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties my 
provisional decision and set them a deadline to send further comments or evidence for me to 
consider before I decide this complaint. That deadline has now passed.
For ease of reference, here is what I said in my provisional decision:
Provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr M and Barclays have 
said before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on Barclays actions in regard to Mr Ms current account.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Barclays have explained, and given me evidence, to show why it reviewed and restricted 
Mr Ms account. Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied it was acting in line with the 
obligations it must adhere to when doing so.
Typically such a restriction meant Mr M would have no access to his account. So the fact his 
funds were removed from the account whilst this happened wouldve caused him no 
detriment. The funds after all were put back into the account when the review ended.
Barclays say its internal processes means it must affect an overdraft on the account in the 
way it did. Mr M spent most of the 13 July 2022 trying to work out what had happened, at 
one point being told Barclays systems were down globally. Mr M says he was told by one of 
Barclays staff who called him back on the 13 July 2022 that it had removed the funds from 
his account  and it wasnt a scam or fraud.
I accept that upon discovering you may be liable for half a million pounds would be incredibly 
distressing and would cause significant alarm. Barclays say its internal systems and 
processes meant it had to affect this overdraft. That may be the case here, but I think from 
what Ive seen it ought to have done more to let Mr M know this was part of its account 
restriction process much sooner to alleviate the shock and anxiety it likely caused.
Having said that, Mr M would have been assured by his interaction with Barclays staff on 
the evening of 13 July 2022, that this wasnt the case. So any compensation I award for this 
will take that into account.
Ive already said Barclays was entitled to carry out the review and resulting restriction on 
Mr Ms account, and I dont think it caused undue delay in its investigation given the account 
was reinstated around 12 days later.
Barclays say it told Mr M he could access his pension by requesting as much by going into 
branch with two form of identity documents. Its not clear if Mr M is saying he tried to access 
his pension solely or was trying to access all his funds when he went into branch. This point 
is important because, subject to individual circumstances, Id expect Barclays to do more to 
allow Mr M access to his pension when restricting the account  especially if they were 
needed for essential everyday living costs. But given Mr M had access to other funds, I dont 
think whether Barclays did enough here is that significant. And the pension payment, along 
with the balance of the account, were made available to him when the account was 
unblocked under two weeks.
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr M had to comply with, say that it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. I note Barclays has 
referred Mr M to its specific account terms for this.
Barclays has explained why it chose to close Mr Ms account down immediately and the 
concerns it had to this service. Ive carefully considered this, which includes all the actions it 
took to meet any legal and regulatory obligations.
Having done so, Im not persuaded Barclays did enough to justify it closing the account 
down immediately. Mr M has shown throughout that he was more than willing to provide 
Barclays with any information showing his entitlement to, and origin of funds. Hes gone as 
far as saying he would be willing to get his accountant to correspond with Barclays.
Barclays hasnt demonstrated that it did any such investigation. It says that this wouldnt be 
appropriate here given its concerns and obligations. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im persuaded it ought to have.
That means theres a possibility Barclays may not have exited Mr M with immediate effect 
and instead given him the two months notice. This would have allowed Mr M to move his 
regular payments to one of his other accounts in a less troublesome and distressing manner. 
Mr M says he spent the best part of a week trying to sort this out. So, I think Barclays should 
pay Mr M compensation for this.
I note Mr M feels strongly about being given an explanation for Barclays actions, and I can 
understand why this is important to him. But Barclays is under no obligation that Im aware of 
to do so.
Mr M has also made assertions about the particular laws and regulations referred to. The 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets regulations which banks must comply 
with  and most of the legislations referred to will be covered by this.
Banks are required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, including the 
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook and various pieces of primary and secondary legislations. Most of these 
regulatory requirements apply to all UK banks and Barclays is subject to them.
While these regulations are in place, the specific sections which Barclays would have relied 
on when closing and reviewing Mr Ms account is set out in the Terms and Conditions of the 
account - rather than a set piece of legislation. Part of the legislations will be ensuring banks 
comply with the Terms and Conditions of their account, especially when monitoring ongoing 
business relationships.
Mr M has said Barclays provided him with poor service as he wasnt told why it was taking 
these actions, and because he spent many hours trying to speak to someone and call were 
not returned as promised. Ive already said Barclays doesnt need to give him an 
explanation.
I havent seen any evidence Barclays failed to call him back and note that he was told the 
actions were Barclays doing on the day they were placed. So Im not persuaded any further 
response would have yielded any new information. Im also satisfied Barclays responded to 
Mr Ms complaint in a timely way. And once it had given him referral rights to this service, it 
was under no obligation to continue responding to points about the same underlying 
complaint event. I do understand however that such drastic actions would lead to someone 
wanting answers and making repeated attempts to get them.So, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded Barclays should have done more to explain 
to Mr M the overdraft was a false position and part of its internal account restriction 
processes, and it most likely should have given him two months notice of closure.
Given the distress and upset Ive explained above due to Barclays failings, and what Ive 
said about any mitigating factors, Im satisfied an award of £350 is fair compensation. This 
amount is inclusive of the offer made by Barclays
Barclays agreed with what I said I was planning to decide. Mr M has also responded and 
made further comments for me to consider. 
I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. The reasons for doing so are 
in my provisional decision  as above  and Ill given further reasoning below. 
In response to my provisional decision, and in summary, Mr M has made the following key 
points:
He asked his MP to exert pressure on Barclays and to alert them of what it was doing 
All the call centres Mr M called to rearrange his regular payments were experiencing 
unusual high levels of calls, and he faced frustrating wait times  often many hours. 
But one mobile phone payment fell through the net, and he had to write to agencies 
and ask the record to be removed 
Mr M didnt get a response from Barclays CEO when he raised a complaint to their 
office 
Barclays need to control and programme its systems better to avoid the false 
overdraft issue   
Barclays obligations are so onerous that its forced to close innocent customers 
accounts to avoid fines and sanctions - this should be reviewed 
He doesnt understand the point I made in the provisional decisions about him not 
suffering detriment by Barclays removing his funds from the account. Mr M says 
having around £26,500 removed from an account would cause detriment 
Barclays didnt tell him he could go into a branch with his ID to access his pension. 
The only latitude Barclays offered was on his HMRC pension. Barclays didnt know 
he had access to other funds so that would not have played a part in its thinking 
Mr M doesnt understand why Barclays chose to close all his accounts including a 
joint one with his wife
Mr M is not familiar with the basis of how I arrived at my compensation award for the 
distress and inconvenience Barclays caused. But he doesnt think my recommended 
compensation is appropriate, saying it is less than the minimum wage for the time he 
spent trying to sort out manually switching his regular payments to another accountI can understand why Mr M approached his MP, that is his prerogative  and I can equally 
understand why Barclays sent its final response to them. After all, Barclays had received 
correspondence about Mr Ms complaint from the MPs offices. So I dont think its done 
anything improper by doing so. 
Ive accounted for the inconvenience Mr M has described when having to set up and switch 
his regular payments manually. But I cant hold Barclays responsible for the delays Mr M 
faced with the institutions he needed to contact to facilitate this in its entirely. 
I note Mr M thinks my award, when accounting for the time he spent resolving this particular 
issue, is less than minimum wage. I have no reason, or evidence to the contrary, to conclude 
Mr M didnt spend the time he says he did in sorting out his payments. But my award is in 
line with our approach to for distress and inconvenience. Information about this is available 
on our website.  
Mr M received a final response to his complaint to Barclays. It was not obligated to respond 
to related points about the same complaint from that point onwards. 
Mr M says Barclays needs to improve its systems so as to not put accounts in a false 
overdraft position. Ive already said that in Mr Ms case, Barclays should have done more in 
terms of keeping him better informed about this. It is not my role to comment on the way 
Barclays operates more broadly. The FCA is the regulator, and our role is to determine 
individual complaints. And that is what Ive done here.
Similarly, it is not the role of this service to affect change to any legal and regulatory 
obligations Barclays must follow. 
Mr M says he suffered detriment when his funds were removed by Barclays. Im sorry that I 
didnt explain my point clearly enough in my provisional decision. But what I meant by this is 
that Mr M wouldnt have had access to his funds during the review, despite them being 
removed from his account. Thats because Barclays wouldve most likely blocked the 
account  meaning he wouldve had no access. And Ive also said Barclays acted in line with 
its obligation in blocking the account and didnt cause undue delay.  
Mr M says Barclays offered him latitude in accessing his pension funds. I think in the 
circumstances of this complaint it acted fairly in doing so. Lastly, Mr M would need to 
complaint separately about any account he holds with his wife - if he hasnt already done so.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must now pay 
Mr M £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman