DRN-2857900
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt do anything to preserve the value of an 
endowment policy in the weeks prior to maturity. She was also provided incorrect information 
over the phone about the maturity value on the day of maturity.  
Mrs R is joined by her husband and joint policy holder, Mr R, in bringing this complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead I will set out the key facts and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Key facts:
Mr and Mrs R were sent a maturity pack in March 2020, letting them know the value 
of the policy on 24 February had been £19,911.92 and the value wasnt guaranteed.
 
Mrs R called Scottish Widows on 21 April, the day of maturity, and was told the value 
was £17,897.62. This was incorrect as the value was just over £15,000.
When Mrs R received the maturity value she was shocked, not only in the difference 
from that given in the maturity pack, but also from what was given on the day of 
maturity. So she complained.
Scottish Widows explained the values werent guaranteed and had dropped as 
financial markets had been impacted as a result of the pandemic. It was satisfied it 
had paid out the correct maturity value, but accepted Mrs R had been given the 
wrong value when she called in April 2021. Because of the wrong information 
provided, it offered £350 compensation. 
Our investigator found Scottish Widows hadnt done anything wrong in relation to the 
actual value, and agreed the compensation offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs R have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They remain 
unhappy with the fall in value, that they were given wrong information on the day of maturity 
and arent sure the amount they have been paid is even correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure the parties I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs R are aware, and accept, the value of their policy can rise and fall. Given 
the nature of their investment, these changes can occur on a daily basis. And if there 
is substantial volatility in financial markets, large sums can be wiped from the value 
of investments in a very short space of time. This happened previously following the 
terrorist attacks on 9/11, during the financial crash in 2008 and at various times since 
then. Its very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Rs policy was maturing at a time of more 
volatility in the market as a result of the pandemic, but Im afraid that is the nature of 
investing. They were informed in the maturity pack that the maturity value could be 
higher or lower than the value given in that correspondence, and so were warned of 
the possibility. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Rs arguments that Scottish Widows should have kept an 
eye on policy values, there was simply no requirement for it to do this; and there was 
no requirement for it to contact policy holders if a policy started to lose value, even if 
that loss was dramatic.  It was open to Mr and Mrs R to monitor the performance of 
their policy themselves, either by contacting Scottish Widows or by researching the 
financial press, e.g. the Financial Times. 
I understand Scottish Widows wouldnt have been able to affect a fund switch to a 
less volatile investment area without the express instruction of Mr and Mrs R. And as 
Scottish Widows doesnt provide financial advice, it wouldnt have been able to 
advise them about any potential fund switches in any event. In the absence of any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs R asked for the fund to be switched, I dont find Scottish 
Widows did anything wrong in relation to this part of their complaint. 
Its accepted by Scottish Widows that Mrs R was told the wrong value when she 
contacted it on 21 April. It appears this was simply as a result of human error. Whilst 
unfortunate, these things do happen.  Had Mrs R been told the correct information on 
21 April, it wouldnt have come as such a shock when the maturity proceeds were 
paid out. And so its right Mr and Mrs R are compensated for that error, and the 
subsequent worry and upset caused. I find £350 to be a fair reflection of that.
Finally, Mrs R has queried whether they have been paid the right maturity value. 
Scottish Widows has explained the bid price of the units held by Mr and Mrs R fell 
from 28.903 in February 2020, to 22.787 when the policy matured. The number of 
units held at maturity was 669.1082 and so the value paid was correct. The drop in 
the bid price explains the reduction in value. Although Mr and Mrs R have queried 
whether they have been paid the correct amount, given the price of the units held, 
the value appears to be correct. I havent been provided with any persuasive 
evidence, and nor have Mr and Mrs R advanced any, that suggests the maturity 
value paid to Mr and Mrs R was calculated incorrectly, rather than them simply being 
a victim of circumstance and having a policy mature at an inopportune time.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Scottish Widows has already fairly resolved this complaint 
and so I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require to pay Mr and Mrs R £350 compensation if it hasnt already 
done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman