DRN-3699344
The complaint
Mr D complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) overpaid his pension benefits and have 
asked him to pay them back.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
ReAssure accepts that it made a mistake resulting in Mr D being overpaid benefits 
from his pension.
The overpayment wasnt money that Mr D had in his pension fund. Correspondingly 
ReAssure were entitled to ask for its return. And may be able to reclaim it legally if it 
decides to do so. I understand Mr Ds concern about his ability to now repay the 
amount owed. But this concern is best considered by a court.
ReAssures mistake undoubtedly impacted Mr D. He hasnt suffered a financial loss 
though, as he has had more money than his policy entitled him to. And has so far 
had the use of the money while the matter of the overpayment has been unresolved. 
He was paid more than his pension policy held over the course of May, June and 
July 2021. The final overpayment being made on 18 July 2021. Notification of the 
mistake was made on 29 July 2021, requesting repayment either in full or over the 
course of 12 months. Mr D would have been distressed in being told this and 
inconvenienced by having to repay money, some of which hed spent over the course 
of the previous few months. But the mistake was spotted relatively quickly and 
notification was given soon after the last overpayment.
Overall I think that ReAssures offer of £400 for the distress and inconvenience was a 
fair amount to compensate Mr D for the above distress and inconvenience. Until such 
time as the overpayment is dealt with, Mr D has still financially benefitted from the 
mistake. So I also think its reasonable that the offer of compensation is conditional 
on the settlement of the outstanding overpayment.
For these reasons, I think that the way that ReAssure offered to compensate Mr D is fair.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr A £400 compensation once the 
overpayment has been repaid. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay £400 once the overpayment is 
recovered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman