DRN-1700551
 
Complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr C took out a PPI policy for a mortgage around 1990. Mr C paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was around three decades ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
time. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to dispose of Mr Cs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mr C into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what they did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect HSBC to be able to produce documents from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC misled Mr C 
here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a 
choice about buying PPI, and that he chose it at the time.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr C, Ive assumed they did. That 
means HSBC had to check the policy was right for him at the time it was sold  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. Even if he was planning on becoming self-employed in 1990, the policy still 
wouldve covered him as a self-employed person and it wouldnt have been harder for him to 
claim. Mr C doesnt seem to have had any other significant protection in case he was off sick 
or out of work, which potentially left him at serious risk. Its worth bearing in mind that if he fell behind on his repayments, he couldve lost his home. So based on Mr Cs circumstances 
at the time of the sale, it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting 
his home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim  the electronic 
records confirm that it cost under £15, and theres no evidence that it cost as much as £40 
as Mr C remembers, so I think its most likely hes mistaken. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr C says he tried to claim on the policy in 2001 and was turned down. I understand 
he feels this means the policy was mis-sold. But when they sold the policy, HSBC only 
needed to check it was suitable for Mr C in his circumstances at the time  it wasnt possible 
for HSBC to know what his circumstances would be like over a decade later. So Im afraid 
this isnt relevant here  in this case, Im only looking at the sale of the policy and the advice 
HSBC gave at the time, not what happened years after. And in any case, according to the 
electronic record of the insurance, there were no attempted claims on this policy, so theres 
nothing to substantiate what Mr C says happened in 2001.
If there was a time when Mr C needed to claim on the PPI, but didnt or was turned down, he 
may still be able to make a back-dated claim. If hed like to do that, he should get back in 
touch with HSBC in the first instance. And if he has trouble with the back-dated claim, he 
may then be able to ask our service to get involved as a separate case. But while 
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly about this claim, I do not think it is relevant to this particular 
case about how the policy was originally sold many years before.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about the sale of this policy.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman