DRN-3782109
The complaint
Miss M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined her 
group income protection claim.
What happened
Miss M made a group income protection claim in January 2021 and explained shed been off 
work since late 2020 with stress and family illness. She also said shed recently had a chest 
infection, had caught Covid-19, was suffering from fibromyalgia symptoms, and was not able 
to do her job because of stress.
Legal and General declined the claim on the grounds that Miss Ms symptoms didnt meet its 
definition of incapacity. It said the available evidence indicated she was suffering from 
stress, which wasnt a clinical illness and was rather an adverse reaction to her situation. 
Miss M complained and provided additional evidence. Legal and General said it understood 
shed gone through a number of stressors since her absence began, but there wasnt 
evidence of a significant deterioration in her symptoms, escalation in further treatment, or 
referral. So, it remained of the opinion that Miss M wasnt medically prevented by illness 
from returning to work, and said the non-medical barriers in relation to her situation 
appeared to be preventing that return. 
Miss M referred her complaint to this service. But our investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Legal and General to have declined the claim for the reasons it did. So, 
they didnt uphold it. 
Miss M disagreed and provided additional evidence. She also said shed been signed off 
work by her GP, was not simply off work with stress and family illness, and had instead been 
suffering with a chest infection and Covid which had run her body down and exacerbated her 
fibromyalgia and depression symptoms. 
Both Legal and Generals position and our investigators opinion remained the same, so the 
matter was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings will not address every point or argument raised. They will instead focus on those 
matters I consider central and relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
Legal and General has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not 
reject them unreasonably. The group policy Miss M claimed on was provided on an own 
occupation basis, which the terms and conditions defined as, Means the insured member is 
incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential duties of his 
occupation immediately before the start of the deferred periodThe insured members 
capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will be determined whether or 
not that occupation remains available to him. 
So, it wouldnt have been enough for Miss M to show that she was unwell. Shed need to 
demonstrate that an illness, or illnesses, had prevented her from performing the essential 
duties of her own occupation. Without referring to everything, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Legal and General to find that the available evidence did not demonstrate 
that for the following reasons:
Miss Ms claim was submitted by her employer in January 2021. They explained her 
absence was because of a chest infection, family illness, and stress. Miss M 
completed a member statement too, which said her absence was because of stress 
and family illness, a chest infection, catching Covid-19, and fibromyalgia symptoms. 
During that member statement and in response to what activities of her job she could 
do Miss M also said, Due to stress, unable to do any at present. So, despite being 
unwell, Miss M had herself indicated that stress was preventing her from performing 
her own occupation. 
Miss M underwent a rehabilitation consultation in March 2021 which found her 
absence, had been triggered by her parents being unwell and issues at work have 
contributed. I believe this case is career stress and work-related issues and I will 
close the case to rehab. The consultation also reported, Member has an underlying 
health issue, but this absence is stress related  triggered by her parents being 
unwell and workplace issues. I am closing this case as career stress case and work-
related issues. And it said, If the carer and workplace issues were resolved then I 
believe member could return to work. So stress preventing Miss M from performing 
her own occupation was further evidenced here. 
I acknowledge Miss M explained she might have spoken more about her stressors 
during that rehabilitation consultation given what she was going through at the time. 
While I thank her for that additional explanation, it wasnt unreasonable of Legal and 
General to rely on the evidence as it was presented. And that suggested that 
although there was an underlying health issue, Miss Ms inability to work actually 
centered on her stress and her work-related issues. Neither of which would have 
demonstrated incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
In June 2021 Miss Ms GP wrote a letter to explain shed been off work with myriad 
issues and had experienced a number of stressors  including her family being 
unwell, and contracting both a chest infection and covid-19. The letter said family 
issues had put a significant burden of stress on Miss M, and that more recently her 
mental health had been poor and shed had a flare up of fibromyalgia symptoms. It 
said Miss M did not feel ready to return to work, and noted the GP was inclined to 
agree. Legal and General said the GPs evidence didnt demonstrate a significant 
deterioration in symptoms to warrant escalation in either further treatment or referral. 
And I dont think that was an unreasonable conclusion for it to reach. Again, although 
the evidence set out there were a number of issues going on for Miss M, it similarly 
indicated that the issues being experienced by her had caused her a significant 
amount of stress. 
Miss M continued to provide evidence to support her claim post declination, but Legal 
and General found it was either retrospective, or concerned treatment that had taken 
place outside of the policys deferred period. Legal and General said it did not 
provide a clinical opinion either, nor specifically comment on why Miss Ms illness 
had rendered her unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her own 
occupation. Again, I dont think that finding was unreasonable given the additional evidence provided was:
oA letter from Miss Ms GP of July 2022 which provided a timeline of events, 
commented on why shed been signed off work, and detailed the medication 
being taken. It explained Miss M was still off work, and said shed gone on to 
experience additional issues such as knee related problems too.
oA letter from Miss Ms psychiatrist of September 2022 which set out her 
medication had changed in October 2021. 
oA letter from a CBT and Occupational Therapist of September 2022 which 
commented on the treatment Miss M had been having since February 2022. 
oAnd letters from Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) and Personal 
Independence Payment (PIP) which showed Miss M was in receipt of both 
benefits.
As above, Miss M needed to demonstrate that she was incapacitated in line with 
Legal and Generals own occupation definition. Eligibility for another type of benefit 
would not have influenced the policys own occupation definition. And having looked 
at what was collectively provided in support of her claim Im not persuaded that Legal 
and Generals overall position of incapacity not being demonstrated was 
unreasonable. 
I know Miss M will be disappointed with the above, but I will not be directing Legal and 
General to review its claims decision on this occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman