DRN-2252760
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy for a store card in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its unsurprising that the records from the time are not still available. Indeed, under data 
protection rules AXA were required to dispose of Mrs Hs data rather than hold onto it for too 
long. Mrs H doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given that 
buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Mrs H into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what AXA did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require AXA to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that AXA did something 
wrong here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, 
offered Mrs H a choice, and that she chose PPI at the time  though I can completely 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after such a long time. 
AXA didnt give Mrs H tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs H enough information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And it wouldve paid 
out on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover  especially for 
when her work benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay or ran out entirely. 
I understand Mrs Hs partner may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant Mrs H wouldnt have to 
ask anyone else to pay her store card for her. So the policy could have been useful for 
Mrs H in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so 
Mrs H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman