DRN-3448634
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited wont provide him with a credit card 
that doesnt have a contactless payment facility.
What happened
Mr P wasnt happy that the contactless payment limit had been raised to £100 and felt that it 
entailed an increased risk of fraud should he lose his contactless credit card. So, Mr P 
approached Creation and asked them to provide a card that doesnt have a contactless 
payment facility. Creation explained to Mr P that his request wasnt one that could comply to. 
Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr Ps complaint. They explained that the contactless payment limit had 
been increased to £100 per transaction in October 2021, and that the increase had occurred 
industry wide. Creation also confirmed they had no facility to offer a non-contactless card at 
that time, and tried to reassure Mr P as to the fraud prevention measures they have in place.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Creations response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Creation had acted 
unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Mr P isnt happy with Creations decision to not offer a non-
contactless credit card as he would like. However, while I acknowledge Mr Ps dissatisfaction 
with Creations position on this matter, it doesnt follow from this dissatisfaction that Creation 
have treated Mr P unfairly here.
Ultimately, the decision on whether to offer a non-contactless credit card to their account 
holders is a commercial decision which Im satisfied Creation are entitled to make. And given 
that Creations decision here applies to all of their account holders, and isnt in anyway 
specific to Mr P, Im similarly satisfied that Creation havent treated Mr P unfairly in how 
theyve applied that decision to Mr Ps account.
Im aware that Mr P feels that Creations claim that the increase in the contactless payment 
limit up to £100 was applied industry wide was disingenuous. But its my understanding that 
the increase was applied industry wide. And while Im aware that there are several financial 
institutions that have subsequently taken the decision to allow their customers to tailor the 
contactless payment limit on their cards, Creation havent taken that decision. And as 
explained above, neither are they expected or compelled to.
Finally, Im aware that Mr P has ongoing concerns over the fraud risks he feels are 
associated with a contactless credit card with a contactless payment limit of £100. I can 
appreciate Mr Ps concerns here, and it may be the case that he might choose not to use his 
Creation card for that reason. But it doesnt follow from this that Creation are acting unfairly 
towards Mr P by declining to provide him with a type of credit card that they dont offer as 
part of their commercial service to any other customers.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Creation have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr P in the manner that Mr P contends here, and it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Creation to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman