DRN-3901469
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to close his account. He wants 
Barclays to provide a proper explanation for why it did so. 
Mr B also complains that Barclays asked him to provide information about his employment 
and income which he found intrusive and caused him a lot of trouble collating. 
What happened
Mr B had several accounts with Barclays. This decision will focus on Mr Bs complaint 
concerning his personal account.
Barclays conducted a review of Mr Bs account and asked him to provide information 
regarding a number of credits paid into Mr Bs account between 2018 and 2020. Mr B told 
Barclays that the money paid into his account had been made up from a number of sources, 
including repayment of loans hed made to various individuals, from his wife, rental 
payments, and cash he had at home. Mr B provided copies of paperwork to support his 
explanation.
Following its review Barclays decided to close Mr Bs account and wrote to him in November 
2020 giving him 60 days notice. 
Mr B complained to Barclays about its decision to close his account and asked the bank to 
provide him with explanation for its actions. He explained that hed been a long standing 
customer of the bank and hadnt done anything wrong. He said hed worked hard and 
obtained all his money legitimately. Barclays didnt provide Mr B with much information. It 
said it hadnt done anything wrong and that it had closed Mr Bs account in line with the 
terms and conditions of his account. But it agreed to review its decision and asked him for 
more information about transactions on Mr Bs account.
Mr B said that some of the transactions went back years and that hed have a lot of trouble 
pulling together the information Barclays requested. He explained that it would also take him 
a good deal of time to do this and that unless Barclays were willing to compensate him for 
the time it would take him to do it, he wasnt willing to provide anything further. And he 
pointed out that hed already spent  a considerable amount of time trying to resolve things 
with the bank. In response, Barclays said it wasnt willing to reopen Mr Bs account.
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that hed been a good customer of the bank for just over thirty years and says  
Barclays have treated him like dirt. He said the money in his account is the proceeds of hard 
legal work hes done over the years and that Barclays have treated him unfairly  Mr B said 
that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. And that overall, hed been 
treated in a diabolical manner by bank. 
Mr B wants Barclays to pay him £11,000 compensation, which is the amount of time hes 
calculated at his normal hourly rate of pay, that hes spent writing emails, on the phone and 
sending information to Barclays. He also wants the bank to apologise and reopen his 
account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it decided to close Mr Bs account. Mr B disagreed. He said the investigator is 
biased and simply sided with the bank.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in response to the investigators view, Mr B has said he is concerned that the 
investigator is biased because she hasnt upheld his complaint   with the implication being 
that the bank is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his 
concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both parties say and 
then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in 
this complaint. If Mr B does not agree with our view, he does not have to accept it, and if he 
does not accept this final decision ,he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by 
other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about 
doing that.
I understand that M B feels that the information Barclays is asking him to provide is intrusive. 
Mr B has also questioned why Barclays is asking for this information now, when he has been 
a customer of the bank for so many years. But, in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations Barclays may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information about transactions  its entitled and obliged to carry out such 
checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial crime. This is an 
ongoing obligation and its not unusual for a bank to ask for information periodically  even if 
the account holder has been a customer for some time.
The terms of Mr Bs account also permit Barclays to periodically review accounts and ask for 
information. Having looked at all the evidence, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong 
when it decided to review Mr Bs account and asked him to provide information about 
transactions on his account. 
I can appreciate that Mr B was put to a lot of trouble gathering the information Barclays 
requested  especially as the transactions spanned a number of years. But the information 
Barclays asked Mr B to provide is fairly standard information that banks, and other financial 
businesses are required to have in order to adhere to their legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr B had to spend time collating the information, given that Barclays 
needed the information to comply with its regulatory obligations, I dont think the banks 
request for information was unfair or unreasonable. So, whilst I accept Mr B was 
inconvenienced, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr B any compensation because 
the bank was entitled to do what it did. 
Mr B says he hasnt done anything wrong and that hes been treated like dirt by Barclays. He 
has pointed out that hes been a good customer of the bank for over thirty years. He wants 
Barclays to provide a proper explanation for why it closed his account. Hes argued that hes 
adequately explained where the money paid into his account came from -  which he says 
was from legal hard work. So, he feels the bank has treated him unfairly when it closed his 
account.As the investigator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Barclays closed Mr Bs account by giving him two months notice, so they complied with the 
terms and conditions. I understand why Mr B wants to know the banks reasons behind its 
decision  it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted a customer, especially 
after being a customer of the bank for as long as Mr B had. But Barclays is under no 
obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind the account closure, as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Having said that, Barclays cant close an account for unlawful or improper reasons. Ive no 
doubt, based on what Mr Bs said, that he believes Barclays made unfair assumptions about 
him based on how money was going through his account. But having looked at all the 
information available to me, including Barclays actions and the information its provided Im 
satisfied that their reason(s) for closing Mr Bs account sit within their commercial freedom. 
So, I wont be asking Barclays to reopen Mr Bs account.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr B unfairly when it closed his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman