DRN-2190292
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that the Post Office Ltd, (the Post Office) wont refund $2,900 worth of 
counterfeit $100 bills that he says were given to him by the Post Office when he purchased 
some US Dollars (USD) for a trip abroad.
What happened
On 3 June 2019, Mr E ordered $3,010 online from the Post Office which he then collected 
later on that same day.
Mr E wasnt able to choose the preference of which denomination of notes he wanted online. 
When Mr E went into branch to collect the money, he asked for larger denomination bills as 
he didnt want to carry around a lot of smaller bills. Mr E says he was told the largest 
denomination of USD stocked in branch was $100. Mr E says he was given $2,900 in $100 
bills and the rest was made up of smaller bills.
On 4 June 2019, Mr E went abroad. On 7 June 2019 Mr E visited a casino, where he tried to 
change $300 into chips to use. The casino staff checked the three $100 bills and informed 
Mr E that they were counterfeit. Mr E says the casino kept the counterfeit notes. Mr E then 
returned to the hotel where he was staying and checked a further $100 bill with the hotels 
main cashier. The $100 bill was also confirmed as being counterfeit. An incident report 
confirming what had happened was completed by the hotel and Mr E at this time.
On 8 June 2019 Mr E contacted the currency provider used by the Post Office. The 
currency provider requested Mr E send it the remaining notes he had so that it could 
investigate the matter.
Mr E subsequently returned from his trip abroad on 11 June 2019.
Mr E also logged his concern with Action Fraud and the police. Mr E didnt send the 
counterfeit notes to the currency provider at this time as he wanted to wait for the response 
from Action Fraud and the police.
Ultimately Action Fraud said it wasnt a matter for them. After receiving the report from action 
fraud Mr E then referred the matter back to the currency provider and sent it eight of the 
$100 bills.
The currency provider said Mr Es order was placed online and it was fulfilled with stock of 
the currency from the Post Office branch. The currency provider also said no special order 
had been received from the Post Office requesting $100 bills. The currency provider also 
investigated the eight $100 bills Mr E had provided it. It advised Mr E that the bills were 
counterfeit  but it said the serial numbers on the bills Mr E had provided didnt match the 
serial numbers of any of the stock of USD it had sent to the branch of the Post Office Mr E 
had used.
Given this, the currency provider said the counterfeit notes hadnt come from them and Mr E 
needed to take the matter up with the Post Office.
Unhappy, Mr E then complained to the Post Office. The Post Office looked into the matter. It 
advised that the highest denomination bill it kept in branch for customers purchasing USD 
was $50. The Post Office explained the reason for this was because $100 bills are one of 
the most commonly forged notes and are counterfeited worldwide. The Post Office explained 
that its procedure, if a customer requires $100 bills, is for a special request to be submitted 
to the currency provider. And the Post Office explained this hadnt happened in Mr Es case. 
The Post Office said that the largest USD bill Mr E would have received from its branch 
would have been $50.
The Post office also explained that while it offers a buy-back option to its customers for any 
currency not used  meaning it does accept back $100 notes from customers, these arent 
kept as stock or used for customers purchasing dollars. The Post Office explained that any 
$100 bills that are bought back, are returned to the currency provider  with the Post Office 
returning currency every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. It explained this process is in 
place to check any money being returned to it isnt counterfeit. 
The Post Office said that the procedures it had in place meant it didnt consider the 
counterfeit notes had been obtained from its branch.
Unhappy with the response, Mr E referred the matter to our service as he considered he 
should be refunded the amount he paid the Post Office for his currency that was counterfeit.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They considered that 
due to the time that had passed the CCTV footage was no longer available. This meant they 
had to look at the overall evidence that was available to determine what they thought was 
more likely than not to have happened.  
Broadly summarised they concluded the evidenced provided by the currency provider meant 
it was unlikely that the counterfeit notes had been supplied from them to the Post office, and 
as Mr E says the counterfeit notes were obtained from the Post Office it was correct for the 
complaint to be against the Post Office. And given the procedures the Post Office had in 
place, the investigator considered it unlikely that the counterfeit notes were obtained through 
the Post Office.
As Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Without the CCTV evidence, which could have possibly cleared this matter up, I have to 
base my decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on all the 
available evidence.
The currency provider for the Post Office has confirmed that the order submitted was fulfilled 
from the Post Offices branch stock. The USD bills Mr E provided to the currency provider were confirmed, by the currency provider, as being counterfeit. And the currency provider 
has explained that the serial numbers of the bills Mr E provided to it do not match the serial 
numbers of the stock it sent to the branch of the Post Office that Mr E used. The currency 
provider also confirmed that no special request had been submitted to it via the Post Office, 
for Mr E, for $100 denominations.
So I agree with our investigator that is was unlikely that the counterfeit notes were supplied 
from the currency provider to the Post Office. And that the complaint needed to be directed 
to the Post Office, given Mr E had said that it was the Post Office who had provided him with 
the 29 $100 bills.
The Post Office says that its highest USD denomination available to customers is $50. It 
explained the reason for this is because $100 bills are one of the most counterfeited notes in 
the world. It further explained that if a customer wanted higher denominations such as $100 
bills  a special request needed to be submitted to the currency provider it uses. The 
Post Office say this wasnt done in Mr Es case. Mr E had ordered USDs online, with the 
order collected later on that day with no additional requests made under the order number. 
This was presumably because Mr E was travelling abroad the very next day and there 
wasnt time for an additional request to be made.
The Post Office also explained that while it does buy-back currency from customers and it 
does buy-back US dollars  which also includes buying back $100 bills, these arent kept as 
stock for its branches to then use for customers purchasing US dollars. It explained any 
$100 bills that are bought back are kept separate and are sent back to its currency providers 
cash centre three times a week. This process is to ensure that all currency that is bought 
back by the Post Office is checked for any potential counterfeiting fraud.
From reviewing everything, it seems unlikely to me that the Post Office stepped away from 
the procedures it had in place. Im also mindful that the Post Office has confirmed that there 
havent been any other complaints about customers receiving counterfeit notes from the 
branch Mr E used.
I do appreciate that this in itself does not mean there wasnt a possibility that the Post Office 
had potentially bought back some US dollars from another customer which were counterfeit; 
and rather than keeping these separate and sending these back to its currency provider to 
check, they were instead mistakenly used, and were provided to Mr E as he wanted higher 
denominations. But based on the evidence I have available to me I cant fairly or reasonably 
say this is what happened.
It seems more likely to me that a cashier would most likely follow the procedures of providing 
$50 bills as the highest denomination. Rather than provide Mr E with USDs that had been 
brought back from other customers. In essence the cashier would be stepping away from 
two main procedures they had to follow when issuing USDs to a customer  and in doing so 
also happened to provide Mr E with counterfeit currency.
All things considered, while there is the potential for this scenario to have happened, there is 
also no real tangible evidence to support this version of events and it doesnt seem a 
plausible explanation of what happened, and in my opinion seems an unlikely scenario.
Overall the evidence leads me to conclude that it is more likely than not that the Post Office 
followed the procedures it had in place regarding issuing USDs and on balance I consider it 
unlikely that Mr E received the $100 counterfeit bills from the Post Office.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that it appears Mr E has been inconsistent with his 
testimony. There are discrepancies as to how many notes Mr E considered were counterfeit, with him initially saying some and then saying all 29 $100 bills received from the Post Office 
were counterfeit. This discrepancy may simply be down to confusion as to what had been 
confiscated and what hadnt  or what Mr E definitely knew was counterfeit and what wasnt. 
But I dont think it makes a material difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say this 
because Im satisfied it was unlikely that the counterfeit currency came from the Post Office 
for the reasons Ive explained above. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint and I dont agree that it would be fair for the 
Post Office to refund the currency Mr E obtained from it. There is no evidence to suggest 
that the counterfeit currency was obtained through the Post Office branch Mr E used.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman