DRN-2419963
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with valuations placed on his items of jewellery following a burglary. The 
home insurance policy is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
When he made his claim Mr L put together a list of the items and gathered details from high 
street stores. He said the total value of the stolen jewellery was £20,400. Mr L did this as he 
was clear with Aviva that there werent any other methods available to him to show the items 
values. There werent any photos or professional valuations. The jewellery was old and had 
been passed down through the family.
Avivas experts offered replacement of the items to a value of £7,217.00 on a jewellery card 
or cash of £4,767.72. Mr L didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. But she did think a further suggested meeting 
between the parties would be a useful further attempt to resolve the matter. After the further 
meeting Aviva offered slightly higher valuations and more varied options to settle the claim. 
The jewellery card offer increased to £7,717 and the cash offer to £6,672.30. Aviva also 
offered a mixed settlement of £5,128 in cash together with a jewellery card for £2,589. Mr L 
didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
My provisional decision
There was no argument from Aviva that the claim was valid. And Aviva involved expert loss 
adjusters to help calculate the valuations. Its also fair to say that Mr L has provided what he 
can in the circumstances. But as these factors didnt resolve the claim a further meeting with 
a jeweller was arranged and led to the slightly increased offers.
I understand the point raised by Mr L that he was never told he would need photos, 
valuations or other methods to show the values of the jewellery. The policy details Ive seen 
dont suggest that there were any policy additions requested by Mr L for specified or 
unspecified jewellery items. So, I dont think there wouldve been any indication to Aviva that 
Mr L had a large amount of jewellery and so I cant say there would be any reason for Aviva 
to tell Mr L he would need to take specific action regarding valuations or photos.
In terms of the offers made to replace, provide a jewellery card or pay cash I think thats a 
reasonable way to try and settle the claim. It is a standard clause in home contents 
insurance policies that insurers can apply.
Aviva has confirmed to me that all valuations were based on the descriptions from Mr L. It 
said the knowledge of the experts used meant it was able to work on the average weight of 
such items and the usual clarity of the stones when coming to a settlement amount.
I think by allowing the first set of expert loss adjusters to check values, and then arranging 
the follow up meeting with the jeweller I think Aviva has acted fairly in trying to come up with 
reasonable settlement valuations. I understand Mr L feels his valuations are the right ones 
but with the two expert opinions both coming up with values much lower than Mr L and 
based on expert consideration I think that Avivas offer is reasonable in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
There was no further response from Aviva.
Mr L asked some questions about the various offers and about how the jewellery card would 
work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision I see no reason to change my findings. 
The outcome from the provisional decision will be the final outcome. The offers made by 
Aviva are reasonable and its up to Mr L to decide and let Aviva know which offer it has 
made that he wants to accept.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman