DRN-3304880
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society wrongly informed him that he had a travel
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a packaged account with Nationwide. This included an annual travel insurance
policy which was a benefit of the account so long as the account holder paid £750 into the
account each month. The insurance was underwritten by an insurer Ill call U.
In December 2016, Mr As travel insurance policy was cancelled. Thats because he hadnt
paid £750 into his account each month after April 2016.
Mr A booked a holiday abroad in August 2019. He was due to travel abroad on 15 August
2020. In March 2020, Mr A received an email from Nationwide which referred to his travel
insurance policy and which stated that U wouldnt cover claims related to Covid-19 if a trip
had been booked after 18 March 2020. And in July 2020, Mr A received another email from
Nationwide, referring to his travel insurance cover, which set out details about travel
corridors and other insurance information.
On 7 August 2020, Mr A called Nationwide to check whether he did have any cover,
because he was concerned that Covid-19 related travel restrictions might be re-introduced.
Nationwides call handler told Mr A that he did have travel insurance and passed him
through to U so that it could provide him with policy details and documentation.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office reintroduced restrictions to the country
Mr A was due to go to the day before his departure. So Mr A cancelled his trip and made a
claim to U.
However, U told Mr A that he didnt have a travel insurance policy with it. Therefore, he
wasnt able to recover any of the costs associated with the cancellation of his trip. So Mr A
made a complaint to Nationwide. He said itd led him to believe that he did have cover in
place. If itd given him accurate information, hed have been able to find a travel insurance
policy which would cover his circumstances and wouldve been in a position to make a claim.
So he felt that Nationwide should pay his cancellation costs, together with compensation for
the upset itd caused him.
Nationwide accepted that itd wrongly told Mr A that he did have travel insurance in place. It
paid him £125 to recognise its error. But Mr A didnt feel this was fair compensation and so
he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt the compensation Nationwide had paid Mr A was fair. While she
acknowledged itd led him to believe he did have a policy in place, she also noted that
Nationwide had provided copies of a letters it had sent Mr A in 2016 and early 2017. The first
of these letters let Mr A know that he wasnt paying £750 per month into his account and
therefore, the travel insurance would be removed. The second letter invited Mr A to apply for
travel insurance within 30 days of the it being sent. The letter said that no cover would be in
force unless a customer was issued with an insurance certificate. Mr A had returned the
application around six months after the letter had been sent and had never been issued with
an insurance certificate or updated policy documents. So the investigator concluded that Mr
A ought to have known he didnt have cover in place.
Mr A disagreed. He accepted he should have been aware that he didnt have insurance, but
after receiving Nationwides emails, hed called to check and had been told he was covered.
So he maintained that Nationwide was directly responsible for him not having cover in place.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought the compensation Nationwide had paid Mr A was fair. I said:
Both parties accept that the travel insurance included with Mr As account was cancelled in
December 2016 because Mr A hadnt been regularly crediting his account with £750 after
April 2016 and at the point of review in August 2016, in line with Nationwides eligibility
criteria. And Mr A acknowledges that he ought to have known - based on the letters
Nationwide sent him about the impact of the failure to maintain the minimum monthly credit
of £750 on his travel insurance benefit - that he didnt have travel insurance. Hes also told
us that he didnt have any policy paperwork.
It's clear though that Nationwide did send Mr A emails in March and July 2020, which were
addressed to him by name and which referred to Your travel insurance policy. So I can
entirely understand why Mr A wanted to check whether in fact he did still have a policy in
place with U. And having listened to the call, its also clear that Nationwides call handler did
wrongly tell Mr A that he had travel insurance in place. This was a clear mistake on
Nationwides part and based on the content of that call, I appreciate why while speaking with
the call handler, Mr A believed that he had cover in place.
However, while I agree that Nationwide did something wrong, I think the £125 compensation
its already paid Mr A is enough to reflect the trouble and upset its mistake caused him. Mr A
feels strongly that Nationwide ought to effectively pay his claim. Thats because he considers
that but for this mistake, he wouldve been in a position to take out insurance which wouldve
covered his holiday and therefore, his cancellation claim wouldve been met. He believes
that Nationwide has prejudiced his financial position. I dont agree though and Ill explore this 
further.
Like our investigator, Ive listened to the call between Mr A and Nationwides call handler on
7 August 2020. During the call, Mr A mentioned that he was meant to be going away, but
there was talk of further travel restrictions being put in place relating to his pre-booked
destination. So he wanted to check whether or not hed be covered in this event. He also
referred to the fact that he didnt have any policy documentation and asked for a copy.
The call handler told Mr A that hed need to put him through to Us claims team in relation to
both the question regarding cancellation cover in the event of travel restrictions and Mr As
request for policy documents. Mr A agreed to this and while it isnt entirely clear what
happened next, it seems that the call ended because the call handler transferred Mr A to Us
claims team.
Based on what Mr A told the call handler, it seems he wanted to check whether he was
covered because he was concerned about the impact any change in government travel
advice would have on his trip. So in my view, he was aware that such a guidance change
might be pending and that if it did, this would lead to the need to cancel his holiday.
Insurance policies are designed to protect policyholders against the risk of unforeseen
events. They dont cover events a policyholder knows might happen at the time they take outa policy. As such, even if the call handler had correctly informed Mr A that he didnt have
insurance with U, I dont think he wouldve been able to find an alternative insurance policy
which wouldve covered him. I say that because I dont think, on balance, hed have been
able to find a policy which covered travel restrictions which he knew were pending when the
policy was taken out and when it seems he was already aware he might need to cancel the
trip.
This means I dont currently think that Nationwide did prejudice Mr As ability to recover his
cancellation costs. Thats because Im persuaded its unlikely he wouldve found alternative
cover which wouldve paid out, given I think he was already aware of a reason hed
potentially need to claim by 7 August 2020. Id also add that even if Mr A had taken out
alternative cover following this call, the insurer wouldve assessed the claim in line with its
own terms and conditions, so it would be difficult to safely conclude what, if any, of his claim
costs wouldve been settled.
Additionally, as Ive set out above, it seems that Nationwide transferred Mr A to U to answer
his queries both about the cover and the policy documents. I dont know what Mr A
discussed with U or what he was told. And it isnt at all clear that U either confirmed to Mr A
that hed be covered for cancellation or that it went on to send him any policy documents.
But Nationwide isnt responsible for anything U mightve said to Mr A during this call and any
actions U might have subsequently taken. So while I agree that Nationwides call handler
did wrongly tell Mr A he was covered; I think he correctly passed Mr As queries onto Us
claims team which was better placed to answer queries about any potential cover and the
paperwork. And I think Nationwides responsibility for the provision of policy information
ended when the call was passed through to U.
Overall then, Im currently satisfied that the compensation of £125 which Nationwide has
already paid Mr A is fair and reasonable. I do sympathise with Mr As position because I
appreciate hes been left out of pocket following the cancellation of his trip. But Im not
planning to direct Nationwide to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr A and Nationwide said they had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any more evidence or information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman