DRN-3520884
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to provide the correct 
amount when he made a withdrawal, leaving him short of funds.
What happened
Mr S visited a branch of Halifax and asked to withdraw £2,500. The cashier used a machine 
to count the money and sealed it in an envelope. A few days later, Mr S explained that he 
opened the envelope and counted the money which he found to be £880 short.
Mr S visited the branch and asked them about the shortfall. Mr S wanted to review CCTV 
coverage of his withdrawal and for Halifax to make up the missing money.
Halifax checked their records from the till on the day Mr S visited the branch. All the records 
showed the tills balanced and there were no significant amounts of excess funds found.
Halifax explained to Mr S that CCTV could be obtained through the police. A subject access 
request was made on behalf of Mr S, which included the CCTV coverage. 
The CCTV wasnt provided and is no longer available. Mr S complained to Halifax about his 
loss and they looked into what had happened at the branch. Halifax reviewed the till receipts 
and audit information. They also checked the staff members working the counter at that time 
and could find no reason why there would be a shortfall in the amount of money given to Mr 
S. Halifax declined to refund Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy with how Halifax had handled the issue and brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of 
our Adjudicators who asked both parties for information about the incident. Mr S explained 
what had happened and provided copies of the subject access request. Halifax provided 
details of their investigation into the complaint and audit data from the tills.
Our Adjudicator thought the evidence showed the funds had been fully withdrawn and didnt 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review. 
Mr S thought the lack of CCTV was suspicious and wanted an Ombudsman to look again at 
his complaint, which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S visited the branch to ask for his withdrawal, the process used by the cashier was 
to use a cash counting machine to check the amount was correct. Halifax have explained 
that in such circumstances, they wouldnt count the cash again in front of the customer 
unless specifically asked to. The money was counted through the machine and placed int a 
sealed envelope.
Mr S then left the branch and didnt open the envelope for a few days. At that point he 
realised it was missing £880. Halifax checked all their records and they showed the till used 
by Mr S balanced. If there was such a large shortfall in the amount given to Mr S, then I 
would expect to see a conflict in the records produced by Halifax. Essentially they wouldnt 
balance and would have more money than the records showed.
There seems to have been some confusion about whether Halifax could or would provide 
CCTV. Mr S was advised to go through the police, but a request was also put in for access 
to CCTV coverage using a subject access request. Halifax declined to provide it and later 
advised it was no longer available. So, I can understand Mr Ss frustration with the apparent 
mixed messages he received from Halifax.
But, as the CCTV isnt available for me to review, I have to make my decision based on the 
available evidence  and that shows the full amount requested by Mr S was given to him at 
the branch. I appreciate Mr S says no one else had access to it in the time between taking 
from the branch and opening it, but the evidence Ive reviewed, which included a review of 
staff involved in the withdrawal-  leads me to the conclusion that I think the full amount was 
provided at the branch.
Theres no evidence that Ive seen that would indicate there was a problem at the branch 
that day and as I think the full amount was provided to Mr S, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
If Mr S believes the way Halifax handled the subject access request was poor, then he can 
approach the Information Commissioners Office who are the appropriate authority to look 
into such matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman