DRN-3248131
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs C took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 11 
November 2019 for a holiday which was due to take place from 2 June until 6 July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C paid a total of £1163.90 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. Mr and Mrs C also paid an additional premium of £69.42 (including IPT) 
for travel disruption extension, terrorism cancellation and excess waiver cover. 
The cost of Mr and Mrs Cs policy also included a discount of £192.26, which they received 
at the point they purchased their policy. In total, Mr and Mrs C paid £1041.06 for their policy 
including IPT.
On 12 August 2020, Mr and Mrs C contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable 
to travel to their intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They requested 
the cancellation of their policy and a refund of the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes informed Mr and Mrs C that a full refund couldnt be provided as their 14 day 
cooling off period had expired and, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. But 
it said they could either change the dates for their policy or receive a pro rata refund by way 
of a voucher, which would be transferrable and valid for use within 36 months. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the offer Great Lakes had made and they complained to 
our service. Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how 
they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an 
insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator 
also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 1 November 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought Great Lakes offer to refund by voucher was fair and reasonable. But they 
didnt think it had correctly calculated the pro-rata refund that was due to Mr and Mrs C. So, 
they recommended upholding this complaint and asked Great Lakes to recalculate the 
refund. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and recalculated Mr and 
Mrs Cs refund in line with their recommendation. But Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our 
investigators view of their complaint. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Are Mr and Mrs C entitled to a full refund of the premium?  
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to receive a full refund of the premiums 
because: 
Cover under Mr and Mrs Cs policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
Mr and Mrs C werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered them for cancellation cover from 1 November 2019. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any 
of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and 
Mrs C falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. 
In this case, I can see that Great Lakes has now agreed to calculate Mr and Mrs Cs 
pro-rata refund of their premiums from 26 May 2020, after they provided evidence to 
our service confirming that this was the date their holiday was cancelled.I think its right to use 26 May 2020 as the relevant policy cancellation date as Great 
Lakes was bearing a risk of the holiday being cancelled up until this date. But it was 
no longer carrying that risk once the holiday was cancelled. 
In the overall circumstances, I think calculating the pro rata refund from 26 May 2020 
is fair and reasonable as this takes into account the 42 days of unused cover from 
the date of the holiday cancellation to the date the holiday was due to end. 
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mr and Mrs C, it used its 
discretion to offer them a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro-
rata monetary refund. This voucher is valid for 36 months and our service would view 
this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which Mr and Mrs C can use it towards future travel 
insurance policies they may wish to take out. Its also transferrable, which allows 
some flexibility.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs C may prefer a pro-rata monetary refund as an 
alternative to a credit voucher. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs Cs health has deteriorated to the point that it might preclude future travel. 
And I can see they were prepared to travel in June 2020 with the health conditions 
they declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in 
offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from 
industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mr and Mrs C because of 
the unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. 
I therefore think its offer of a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
After Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service, I can see that our 
investigator asked Great Lakes to provide a calculation showing the refund they were 
recommending it pay as the resolution to this complaint.  
Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs C a pro rata refund of £163.90 towards the cost 
of the basic level of cover they took out. Ive carefully considered the refund formula 
used by Great Lakes in calculating the refund its offered to pay following our 
investigators view to assess whether the offer is fair and reasonable. Having done 
so, Im satisfied that Great Lakes calculation correctly takes into account the days it 
wasnt on risk following the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Cs holiday. So, Im satisfied 
its in line with our approach to complaints of this nature.
Should Mr and Mrs C receive a refund of the Additional Cover Options they purchased? 
As Ive already mentioned, Mr and Mrs C paid for optional travel disruption extension 
cover. This cover includes extended cancellation benefits as well as extended 
curtailment, travel delay and enforced stay benefits. As Great Lakes was no longer 
covering the risk of a claim under the optional travel disruption extension cover from 
26 May 2020, it would be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to receive a pro-rata 
refund of the premium they paid for this cover.I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr and Mrs C paid for 
their excess waiver cover. Excess waiver cover means that no excess is payable in 
respect of any claim submitted under the general cover outlined in the policy. But, as 
before, Great Lakes were no longer covering the risk of a claim and therefore the use 
of the excess waiver cover from the date the holiday was cancelled.
Great Lakes initially didnt include a pro rata refund of the additional cover options Mr 
and Mrs C purchased within its offer to resolve their complaint. It said it can be 
difficult to tell if any additional cover options have been used. But here Mr and Mrs C 
didnt travel on their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made 
under the additional cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover 
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra 
cover at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr 
and Mrs Cs holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Finally, Great Lakes said the price of the additional cover options have been 
calculated on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the 
policy. But the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance 
policy, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional 
cover options which Mr and Mr C paid for any differently. 
I can see that when Great Lakes has now agreed to refund Mr and Mrs C, on a pro 
rata basis, for the travel disruption extension and excess waiver cover options they 
purchased. This refund comes to £7.66. Im persuaded that this a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ill turn now to the issue of how I think the terrorist cancellation cover that Mr and Mrs 
C purchased should be refunded. This cover is provided by Europ Assistance, which 
means a different business is responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about a 
refund for this part of their policy. 
I understand that the seller of Mr and Mrs Cs policy has told us its prepared to offer 
them a pro-rata refund in cash. The cost of that cover was £23.95 including IPT and 
a pro-rata refund amounts to £4.04 from the holiday cancellation date. Generally, I 
think this offer is fair and Im unlikely to ask Europ Assistance to do anything more. 
The offer is in line with how wed usually approach complaints of this type. 
If Mr and Mrs C wish to accept this offer, then its open for them to do so and well tell 
the seller of their policy to send the payment directly to them. However, if Mr and Mrs 
C dont wish to accept the offer, Ill arrange for a new complaint to be set up for them 
against Europ Assistance and an investigator will consider that part of their complaint 
separately. Id appreciate if Mr and Mrs C can let our service know what theyd like to 
do when responding to this decision.
 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should issue Mr and Mrs C with a credit voucher 
refund for £171.56, which includes the following:
A pro-rata refund (plus pro-rata IPT) of the premium they paid for the basic single trip 
insurance policy from the date their holiday was cancelled;
A pro-rata refund (plus pro-rata IPT) of the premium they paid for the optional travel disruption extension and excess waiver cover from the date their holiday was 
cancelled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman