DRN-2937975
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr R visited a dealership and agreed to purchase a new car. He part 
exchanged his old car, paid a deposit and signed a transfer of ownership of his old car.
A few days later, Mr R discovered that the dealership had gone into liquidation without 
settling his previous finance agreement with Motonovo.
When he contacted Motonovo to tell them what had happened, Motonovo advised Mr R that 
he remained responsible for the payments due under the finance agreement until the 
agreement was settled. Following this, Motonovo retrieved the car from the dealership and 
sold it at auction, but an outstanding balance remained. 
Motonovo advised Mr R that he was responsible for the outstanding balance. Mr R didnt 
think this was fair. He said hed only entered into the new finance agreement on the 
understanding that the dealership would settle his existing finance agreement with 
Motonovo. Mr R was unhappy that his credit file had been negatively impacted because 
Motonovo had reported the missed payments.
In response, Motonovo said that although Mr R couldnt have known that the dealership 
would go into liquidation, he remained responsible for payments under the finance 
agreement until it was settled.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
During the investigation by this service, Mr Rs existing finance provider agreed to settle the 
outstanding balance on Mr Rs agreement with Motonovo.
Our investigator said the reasons for the outstanding baalnce on the agreement was beyond 
the control of both Mr R and Motonovo, and that because the agreement had now been 
settled by Mr Rs current finance provider, it would be fair to ask Motonovo to remove the 
negative information from Mr Rs credit file.
Motonovo didnt agree. It said it had made Mr R aware that he needed to maintain payments 
under the agreement. It said it was irrelevant that it wasnt Mr Rs fault that the dealership 
went into liquidation. It said it had correctly reported the missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This says that Mr R is responsible for making 
payments until the agreement is settled.
Ive also taken into account what Motonovo has said. It says that it advised Mr R that, 
notwithstanding that the dealership had gone into liquidation without settling the agreement, 
he should maintain his payments until the agreement as settled.
Ive taken account of what Mr R has said as well. He says that he told Motonovo he couldnt 
make payments under the agreement because he had taken out a new finance agreement 
for his new car and couldnt afford to make two lots of finance payments every month.
Based on what Ive seen, it took a further two months before the car was sold at auction. Its 
not clear why it took so long for Motonovo to sell the car. But it seems to me that Motonovo 
was aware that Mr R couldnt make payments under the agreement, so I wouldve expected 
them to take steps to sell the car as quickly as possible to mitigate the circumstances that 
had arisen. I dont think two months to sell the car was reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case  I think Motonovo shouldve arranged for the car to be sold sooner than this.
I also think Motonovo, having been made aware of Mr Rs financial difficulties in paying the 
agreement, shouldve reached an agreement with Mr R to make reduced payments. Theres 
nothing to suggest that this was explored with Mr R, even though hed made Motonovo 
aware that he couldnt afford to make two finance payments every month.
It was neither Mr Rs nor Motonovos fault that the dealership went into liquidation and 
theres nothing to suggest that anyone could have foreseen this happening. It left Mr R in an 
unfortunate position and I think Motonovo couldve done more to assist in the circumstances. 
Because of this, I dont think its fair that Mr R should have negative information recorded on 
his credit file because of the missed payments.   
Putting things right
 To put things right, Motonovo should remove the negative information about the agreement 
from Mr Rs credit file. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FirstRand bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance must remove the negative information from Mr Rs credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman