DRN-1805658
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked her Pockit account without 
any warning or reason. The Pockit card is a pre-paid payment card administered (along with 
a range of other similar products) by Wirecard. Wirecard later closed and returned the funds 
to source. Ms D would like the return of her funds and compensation for the delays.
 
What happened
Ms D had an account with Pockit. She says she didnt use the account very often but used it 
for selling clothes and household items.
On 15 June 2019 following a review, Wirecard blocked her account. It contacted Ms D 
requesting proof of ID and proof of source of the funds that had been sent to her account.
Ms D was able to provide ID but found it difficult to provide proof of the source of funds 
received. She said her son had sold a tracksuit in person and the buyer had sent the funds 
to her account. There were no messages to support that the funds she received related to 
the sale.
As the account continued to be blocked Ms D complained to Wirecard. They investigated 
and said they had followed the correct procedures regarding the account being reviewed and 
had complied with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms D was unhappy with their response, so she contacted our service. 
One of our investigators looked into her complaint. He contacted Wirecard to get an update 
on the status of the account. Wirecard said they had closed the account and sent the funds 
back to source on 15 February 2020. 
Our investigator said Wirecard were entitled to review and block the account. He said 
Wirecard had done nothing wrong when it closed the account as it was relying on the terms 
and conditions. He said they were also able to return funds to its original source if they 
werent satisfied with the proof of entitlement provided. He was sympathetic to how difficult it 
was for Ms D to provide the proof the bank needed in this instance. Our investigator also 
said Wirecard werent obliged to give Ms D a reason for what they had done. And although 
he thought Wirecard could have resolved things sooner, Ms D wouldnt have had the funds 
as they were returned to source. So, he thought the delay didnt change the outcome for 
Ms D.
Ms D was unhappy with the investigators view. As there was no agreement the matter has 
come to me for decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation, place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the purpose and 
nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also required to 
carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Wirecard has said Ms Ds 
account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Ms D has said she doesnt know why her account was blocked. She says she wanted to use 
the funds to help pay some bills.  
Whilst I understand Ms Ds strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Wirecard relied upon, Im satisfied that they were complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they blocked Ms Ds account. So, I cant say they have done 
anything wrong. The terms and conditions of Ms Ds account also permit Wirecard to block 
an account and Im satisfied Wirecard acted in line with them. 
I know Ms D wants Wirecard to explain the reason they blocked her account. And I can 
understand her frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Wirecard is under no obligation to provide this information to her, 
as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say Wirecard have done anything wrong by not 
providing this information to her. 
Ive already said Wirecard have procedures they must follow to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what they were doing when they reviewed and 
blocked Ms Ds account. So, I dont think they have done anything wrong.
Ms D was unhappy with the delay in reviewing the account. She thought she should be 
entitled to compensation for this delay. Our investigator thought Wirecard could have acted 
quicker but didnt think the delay had a material effect on Ms D because the funds were 
returned to source. 
I have looked at the evidence and I think Wirecard could have acted sooner. But in doing so 
it would have returned the funds to source quicker, so I dont think it would have made a 
difference to Ms Ds position. I have also considered Ms D wanted the funds returned to her 
but as she wasnt able to provide satisfactory proof of the source of the funds, I dont think 
Wirecard were wrong in sending the money back to source. So, I wont be asking Wirecard 
to pay Ms D compensation. 
Ms D has said she wanted to use the funds to pay bills but wasnt able to because of the 
block on the account. I accept this was inconvenient to Ms D. But as Wirecard havent done 
anything wrong I wont be asking them to pay compensation to Ms D.
Wirecard closed the account in February 2020.The terms and conditions of the account say 
Wirecard could close the account with immediate effect in certain circumstances. So, I am 
satisfied they were following the terms and conditions when they closed the account with 
immediate effect. Whilst Ms D mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Wirecard isnt required 
to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Wirecard have done 
anything wrong by not giving Ms D this information.
In summary, I recognise Ms D feels unhappy about the blocking and subsequent closure of 
the account as well as the monies being returned to source. I realise Ms D will be 
disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
Wirecard have acted unreasonably and treated Ms D unfairly when they blocked and closed 
her account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman