DRN-3633341
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold accidental death insurance by Stonebridge 
International Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr S had an accidental death policy with Stonebridge. Initially, he thought this was a 
maintenance fee for his bank account. But he realised that wasnt the case and discovered 
he had been paying a monthly direct debit for the policy since 2005. Mr S said he had no 
recollection of taking out the policy and so hed like back the money he paid towards it. He 
said it was also mis-sold because he didnt understand the policy owing to a language 
barrier at that time. 
Stonebridge said the policy wasnt mis-sold. It said the policy was taken out on a non-
advised basis, meaning it wasnt one that had been recommended. It highlighted that it knew 
personal information about Mr S, including his place of birth, and therefore that Mr S mustve 
knowingly provided that information. 
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold either. She explained that Mr S 
most likely opted to take the policy and likely forgot about it, given the passage of time. She 
explained that the sales call was unavailable for the same reason. She concluded that the 
policy was suitable and that Mr S provided personal information in order to set the policy up. 
Mr S disagreed. He said that he was unaware of the policy and that his understanding of 
English at the time wouldve been a barrier to him comprehending the agreement. He 
explained he was a student at the time and that he didnt recall receiving paperwork about 
the policy. Hed like the premiums back. And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also decided not to uphold Mr S complaint because I dont think Stonebridge mis-sold 
the policy. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis  meaning that it was Ms S decision whether to 
take the policy. Stonebridge, like all insurers, must give clear and non-misleading information 
about its policies. Ive considered the policy documents and Im satisfied theyre clear and 
non-misleading. I say that because the policy explains what type of insurance product this is 
and what itll do in the event of a successful claim. The policy documents also explain whos 
eligible for cover and Im satisfied that Mr S wouldve fit that criteria at the time the policy 
was sold. Thats to say theres no exclusions for students. Mr S lived in the UK at the time 
and Im satisfied Stonebridge held the correct address for him at the time. I note Mr S moved 
at some point and didnt tell Stonebridge, and therefore, this most likely was the reason he 
stopped receiving information about the policy, but I dont think its fair to hold Stonebridge 
responsible for that. I also noted that Stonebridge paid Mr S £200 compensation because it 
believed it couldve handled things better in that respect.
Without the initial sales call to listen to, Ive considered other information to determine 
whether Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware of the policy, including other personal 
information held by Stonebridge. From its records, Stonebridge also held information about 
Mr S place of birth, which, like our investigator said, I think further demonstrates that this 
policy was taken out by Mr S as its unlikely it wouldve known this information without him 
sharing this detail with it directly. I think it also further demonstrates a good understanding of 
the questions asked throughout the sales process and therefore Im less persuaded by Mr S 
assertion that he didnt understand the questions he was asked at the time. Additional 
information such as Mr S date of birth and his address at the time were all correct which I 
think further supports that statement.  
And so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold or that it was unsuitable to Mr S needs. I also 
say that because Im satisfied that in the event Mr S brought a successful claim, I see no 
obvious reason why he wouldnt have benefited from the policy.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman