DRN-2794377
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) carried out money laundering 
checks and delayed repayment of his money.
What happened
Mr B had prior investments with NSI. In March 2020, NSI processed his application for new 
premium bonds of £30,000. NSI wrote to him to aske for proof of identity documents to 
complete his application. This wasnt received by the deadline of 3 April 2020, and NSI 
cancelled the investment application. The funds were returned to Mr Bs bank account on 22 
April 2020.
Mr B complained  he was a long-term investor with NSI and didnt see why proof of ID was 
needed. And then, NSI delayed repaying the money to him. He had to call NSI many times 
to get things sorted out. This was stressful and time consuming.
NSI said they had to carry out checks of identity and address verification, although Mr B was 
an experienced investor with them. This was a regulatory obligation  and he hadnt 
provided this information before. On the delay in repayment of funds, they apologised and 
paid compensation of £75.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He said that £75 wasnt enough compensation for what 
had happened and wanted another £150. Our investigator said he considered that NSI had 
acted fairly in paying £75. And they had to comply with money laundering regulations  so 
were correct in asking for Mr Bs documents.
Mr B asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a fact that NSI did have to carry checks of Mr Bs identity and verification of his address. 
This is part of their regulatory obligations that they  and all other UK banks  must comply 
with. Its not for this service to question that or opine on it. 
Turning to the question of compensation, I can see that NSIs repayment of the £30,000 was 
delayed  from 3 April 2020 (when the deadline passed for receipt of the documents) until 22 
April 2020.  I can see that clearly, Mr B was inconvenienced by having to call NSI from 
overseas to try to sort things out. And, this was more difficult as Mr B was overseas. So, it 
comes down to what amount of compensation is right for what happened. Thats a subjective 
matter.
Mr B was out of funds for about three weeks. With interest rates on savings accounts very 
low at the moment  about 0.5% per annum  Mr B couldnt have earnt a significant amount 
of interest in a bank or building society. He hasnt brought forward any other form of losses 
or opportunity costs. Our service would characterise what happened as a moderate 
inconvenience, for which awards would be less than £500  and in this case, I would say 
that this would be at the lower end of that scale.
Mr B feels strongly that NSI should pay more  but I have to say that I agree that in this 
case, the £75 paid by them is about right for what happened  and I wont be asking NSI to 
do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman