DRN-1690223
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way in which Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited dealt 
with a parking fine for a car which was supplied to him under a hire agreement.
What happened
Mr C complains that VWFS paid a £60 Penalty Charge Notice (PCN) when it shouldnt have 
done. He says it took VWFS almost 4 months to notify him about the PCN and that if he had 
known about it sooner he wouldve appealed it. Mr C says the PCN was issued because he 
entered his vehicle registration details incorrectly.
Mr C feels that VWFS prejudiced his position in relation to an appeal by failing to notify him 
about the PCN. Hes also unhappy that VWGS charged a £25 administration fee for paying 
the PCN.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions of the 
agreement allowed VWFS to pay fines and charge an administration fee.
Mr C didnt agree. He acknowledged that the terms and conditions of the agreement allowed 
VWFS to pay the fine but said he didnt think it was reasonable for VWFS to have taken 4 
months to tell him about the PCN. He said he was confident that his appeal wouldve been 
successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C agreed in the hire agreement that he would be liable for all fines associated with 
his use of the car
VWFS accepted in its final response that there had been a delay I notifying Mr C and 
invoicing him for the fine. It has already refunded the administration fee of £25
I dont think Mr C has provided sufficient evidence  to show that the parking fine 
wouldve been cancelled if hed been notified about it before VWFs paid it. Whilst I 
understand that Mr C paid for a parking ticket, the registration details were incorrectly 
entered. I cant be certain that an appeal wouldve been  successful in these 
circumstances. The terms and conditions of car parks generally state that its the 
responsibility of the driver to ensure that they enter the registration correctly and that 
if they dont, this amounts to a breach of the terms and conditions of parking and a 
fine will be issued.
I dont think VWFS acted unreasonably in paying the PCN. I appreciate that if Mr C had been 
made aware of it, he mightve contested it. But as I see it, VWFS had two options here. It 
couldve paid the PCN (as it did) thereby preventing further costs for itself and Mr C. Or it 
couldve not paid the PCN and advised the parking operator that it needed to pursue Mr C. 
In my view, this wouldve left Mr C open to the risk of losing the discount for early payment 
and having to pay a larger fine. It may even have resulted in his details being passed to a 
debt recovery agency. On balance, I dont think VWFS acted unreasonably in paying the 
fine. And once a PCN is paid, it cant be appealed, so I dont think the delay in notifying Mr C 
about the fine once it had been paid made any difference.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that VWFS was allowed to pay the fine 
and I think it acted reasonably in doing so. There was a delay in notifying Mr C that the fine 
had been incurred and paid, but in the circumstances, I think the refund of the administration 
fee is fair compensation for the delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman