DRN-2784311
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks & Spencer. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale
and by extension this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H bought the PPI policy at the same time she took out a personal reserve account by
post in 1996. She opted for the policy to be in her husbands name. It gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment protection and some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with this
view so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she thinks the PPI was automatically added by an adviser in a store, she doesnt 
recall anything about it. Allianz says the personal reserve account and PPI were taken out by 
post, and looking at Mrs Hs application form I think that is correct. The form shows her 
name and address were pre-printed and it seems she then completed the rest of the form by 
hand. She signed the credit agreement and both she and her husband signed the direct 
debit mandate. The form shows Mrs H selected PPI and gave her husbands details (name 
and date of birth) to be the insured person. I think the form made clear PPI was optional. I 
say this as Mrs H had to tick a box to opt for it. Theres nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led her to believe it was mandatory.
Mrs H says had her husband been aware he wouldnt have taken out PPI. And Allianz never 
contacted him to ensure he wanted it.  But as it seems she nominated him to be the insured 
person, and he signed the direct debit form I think its reasonable to conclude he was most 
likely aware of Mrs Hs decision. And given she wasnt working at the time the decision to 
protect his income seems logical. I do understand she might not remember this given the 
time since the sale. 
Overall, I think Allianz made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs H agreed to take it out.
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mrs H. This means it didnt have to check if it
was right for her to buy it. Mrs H says the wording on the form we strongly recommend 
influenced her decision, but I dont think she could reasonably have thought this generic 
wording was a personalised recommendation.  
Allianz needed to give Mrs H enough clear information so that she could decide for herself 
whether or not she wanted the policy.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Mrs H wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But even with better information I still think Mrs H would have taken out the PPI in Mr Hs 
name. Ill explain why.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover and which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a pre-
existing medical condition. 
I think the policy was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered, and it was 
apparently affordable.
Mr H told us he would have received six months sick pay, but the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this, covering 15% of the outstanding monthly balance on the 
account until Mr H returned to work, or the outstanding balance was cleared. He also 
says he had life cover and private health insurance, but these cover different events 
and would not help with Mrs Hs monthly personal reserve repayments in the same 
way as PPI. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs H if Mr H was sick, 
had an accident or lost his job.
So overall, I dont think better information would have changed Mrs Hs mind about the PPI.
It follows I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman