DRN-1955120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that NRAM Limited mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2001. It 
covered Mr and Mrs G for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs G hadnt paid 
anything towards the policy. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Normally, in deciding whether any redress would be due, I would make a finding about 
whether the PPI had been mis-sold or not. However, in this case I do not need to do so as it 
does not affect the outcome in terms of what Mr and Mrs G would get back.
There was a special deal on the PPI meaning that it was free for the first six months of the 
mortgage. NRAM has provided evidence, in the form of internal screenshots, showing that 
the premiums were indeed provided free of charge for the first six months. Mr and Mrs G 
then made one payment of £37.20 by direct debit on 1 December 2001 but, because they 
then cancelled the policy, this was refunded to them on 14 December 2001. Because Mr and 
Mrs G received a refund of the one premium that they did pay, this essentially means that 
they didnt pay anything for the PPI.
As Mr and Mrs G didnt incur any costs for the policy, they havent lost out financially by 
having the PPI. So I consider that NRAM has acted reasonably by not offering Mr and Mrs G 
any compensation. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman
