DRN-1948788
 
The complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent irresponsibly to him.
 
What happened
Mr L took out a total of 21 loans with Sunny between December 2015 and July 2019. Details 
of the loans were as follows:
Loan no. Date borrowed Date repaid Amount
1 16.12.15 31.12.15 150
2 23.12.15 03.05.16 150
3 18.01.16 03.05.16 100
4 25.03.16 31.08.16 100
5 05.06.16 30.06.16 200
6 18.08.16 31.01.17 250
7 21.09.16 31.01.17 50
8 21.12.16 31.01.17 100
- - - -
18 08.04.19 30.09.19 150
19 24.04.19 15.10.19 100
20 17.06.19 15.10.19 200
21 15.07.19 15.10.19 100
 
Each of the loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Mr L says, in summary, 
that he was caught in a short-term loan cycle, and had to borrow further, just so that he 
could get by the following month. He believes that if Sunny had carried out proper checks, it 
would have realised this and should have refused to lend to him.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he didnt think 
Sunny had been wrong to make the first five loans. But he thought that by the time Mr L 
applied for loan 6, Sunny should have realised that his pattern of borrowing suggested that 
hed become reliant on short-term loans. So he said Sunny shouldnt have agreed to loans 
6-17. And although he didnt think that Sunny had been wrong to make loans 18-20, given 
the break after loan 17, he thought that proportionate checks would have shown Sunny that 
Mr L was having problems managing his money when he applied for loan 21. So he didnt 
think Sunny should have made that loan either. And he said it should pay Mr L some 
compensation, and make some amendments to his credit file.Sunny wasnt happy with the adjudicators view, but it offered to do as he had said in relation 
to loans 12 to 17. Mr L didnt accept this offer, so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether Mr L 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And its told us it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive 
seen a summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have 
caused additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier, each of Mr Ls loans was repayable in instalments. So the amounts 
that he needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But 
of course he was committing to making those repayments over a much longer period.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr L needed to repay were relatively small compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it would have 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. So I dont 
think Sunny was wrong to give them to Mr L.
But loan 5 was the fifth time Mr L had applied to borrow from Sunny in less than six months. 
And although hed repaid some of his previous loans earlier than planned, that can be the 
sort of behaviour that may indicate that a borrower is having problems managing their 
money, and having to refinance their borrowing on a regular basis. Overall, I think that it 
ought to have occurred to Sunny at this stage that Mr Ls true financial position might not be 
as healthy as was suggested by the information it had, and that he might be having some 
problems managing his money. This doesnt automatically mean that Sunny should have 
refused to make the loan. But I think it should have taken steps at this point to verify Mr Ls 
true financial position independently.
Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements from around the time to see what I think its likely that 
better checks would have shown Sunny. Having done so, Im not convinced that Sunny 
should have refused to make loan 5. I don't think they show any clear evidence that Mr L 
was facing problems managing his finances at the time.
But I think that by the time Mr L applied for loan 6, the pattern of his borrowing should, itself, 
have indicated to Sunny that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And 
so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans to Mr L. 
I say this because by the time he applied for loan 6, Mr L had been borrowing from Sunny 
without a break for around eight months. He wasnt making any inroads into the amount he 
owed Sunny. Although hed repaid four of his five previous loans off by the time he applied 
for loan 6, his borrowing remained at a consistent level. So I think Mr Ls pattern of borrowing 
ought to have alerted Sunny to the likelihood that he was having significant problems 
managing his money.
Between loan 6 and loan 17 Mr L continued to borrow frequently from Sunny, with the 
longest gap being little over six weeks. I dont consider that to be anywhere near enough for 
Sunny reasonably to have considered that it was likely that Mr L had got his finances back 
onto a more stable footing.
I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny agreed to make loans 6-17 because those loans 
had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr L's indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive 
credit intended for short-term use over an extended period. The period he was borrowing 
over was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream credit, and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
By the time Mr L applied for loan 18, thered been a gap of almost 22 months since hed last 
had any loans outstanding with Sunny. I think that gap was long enough that it was 
reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely that Mr L had overcome whatever problems 
had caused him to borrow in the past. So I think Sunny was entitled to treat Mr L as a new 
customer when he applied for loan 18, and to base its checks accordingly.
Bearing this in mind, I think that the checks that Sunny carried out before making loans 18-
20 inclusive were proportionate. The amounts that Mr L needed to repay were small 
compared to the income hed declared. Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Ls circumstances at the time and his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it 
would have been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would 
have been needed to show that Mr Ls borrowing was unsustainable before agreeing to 
make loans 18-20.
But I think that by the time Mr L applied for loan 21, it ought to have occurred to Sunny that 
he might be having problems managing his money. This was the fourth loan Mr L had 
asked Sunny for in just over three months, and the amount he owed Sunny was steadily 
increasing. As I said before, this doesnt automatically mean that Sunny should have refused 
to make the loan. But I think it should, again, have taken steps at this point to verify Mr Ls 
true financial position independently. 
Again, Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements from the time to see what its likely that better 
checks would have shown Sunny. And I think that if it had looked into Mr Ls financial 
position as carefully as it should have done, it would have realised that Mr L was struggling 
financially. In addition to the loans he already had outstanding with Sunny, he already had 
loans outstanding with at least three other short-term lenders He was also heavily 
overdrawn. So overall, I think it would have been apparent that Mr L was having significant 
problems managing his money. And I think Sunny should have realised that there was a 
significant risk that Mr L would be unable to meet the repayments on loan 21 for an extended 
period in a sustainable way. So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to make loan 21.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Sunny should have agreed to make loans 6-17 
or loan 21 to Mr L. This means Sunny needs to pay Mr L some compensation.
 
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to make loans 6-17 or loan 21 to Mr L. So Sunny 
should:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr L paid on loans 6-17 inclusive and on loan 
21;
 
pay interest at 8% simple per year on each of those amounts from the dates when 
Mr L paid them to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information about loan 21 from Mr L's credit file;
 Mr Ls borrowing pattern with Sunny means any information recorded about loans 6-
17 inclusive is adverse. So all entries about those loans should be removed from Mr 
Ls credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman