DRN-1572046
The complaint
Mr B's complaint is about a decision by Nationwide Building Society not to carry out a 
chargeback to recover money he'd paid to an online trading platform. 
What happened
Mr B signed up to an online trading platform in early 2019. But shortly after, he felt that 
emails the trading platform sent him contradicted what was written in the terms of service.
Because of this, Mr B asked Nationwide to do a chargeback to recover the money he'd paid 
to use the service. Nationwide looked at the request but decided not to do a chargeback. Mr 
B felt this was the wrong decision. 
Our investigator thought that the chargeback probably wouldn't succeed, so Nationwide's 
decision not to go ahead with it was okay. Nationwide accepted this finding, but Mr B felt we 
hadn't really appreciated why he was unhappy with the trading platform's service.
The case has now been passed to me for a final decision. I've looked at the details received 
by our investigation, particularly the terms of service and the February 2019 emails that Mr B 
referred to in response to the investigator's view. I'll explain below why I too feel Nationwide 
haven't done anything wrong in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator wrote in his views, there are rules that cover the chargeback process. I 
would expect Nationwide to have followed these rules, so I've looked at them and compared 
them with what was done.
Nationwide said in April 2019 that they couldnt do a chargeback where the transaction was 
processed correctly and the dispute was between the cardholder and merchant. This isnt 
quite correct. 
Certain disputes, such as if the service paid for wasnt provided, are covered. Others, such 
as a dispute about the quality of a service that was provided, are not covered. I think 
Nationwide touched on this in April 2019, when they went on to say the dispute didnt fit into 
any of the chargeback categories. I need to see exactly what the dispute was to decide if 
Nationwides decision on this point was correct.
I can see in part three of the trading platform's terms of service that the service to be 
provided was "risk monitoring services, and a trading account". From the February 2019 
emails between Mr B and the service provider, it looks like Mr B was provided with this 
service. The service provider had sent him an email saying not to trade during a specific 
event, which I view as their way of reporting a risk they'd monitored. And Mr B referred to 
trades he had made on his trading account. Mr B's issue here is that the trading platform provider said in their terms of service that he 
had to trade within parameters they set out. This included some "money management 
trading rules", which said not to trade during "major events including... Central bank 
speeches". The emails in February 2019 then suggested that only events the service 
provider specifically told Mr B about needed to be avoided. 
To Mr B, this was a conflict in the information he was being given. He felt the terms of 
service said he wasn't to trade during every speech by a central bank. But to me that isn't 
quite what is said. To me, the terms say there should be no trading during "major events but 
stops short of saying this includes every central bank speech. The emails in February 2019 
seem to clarify that a "major event" would be one the service provider told Mr B about ahead 
of time. 
I find the dispute here is about how "major event" is defined, or the quality of the language 
used in the terms of service, rather than about a service not being provided. So the dispute 
wasn't suitable under the chargeback rules, and probably wouldn't have been successful. So 
Nationwide's decision not to do one because it didnt fit into any of the chargeback 
categories was okay, though I appreciate it wasn't the result Mr B wanted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr B's complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. They don't need to do anything to put this matter right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman