DRN-2474469
The complaint
 Mr A complains, on behalf of Mrs R, about the way Advantage Insurance Company Ltd 
(Advantage) handled her motor insurance claim following an accident. In particular, the delay 
in recovering the car, its valuation and the loss of personal items from the car. 
For ease, in this decision I will refer to Mrs R when talking about both her actions and those 
of her representative Mr A.
What happened
 In early 2020 Mrs Rs car was involved in a motor accident. Mrs R contacted her insurance 
provider, Advantage, to notify it of the claim. Mrs Rs damaged car was collected the 
following day but by this time water had gotten into it overnight and caused some further 
damage. 
After examining the car, Advantage decided it was a total loss. It calculated the pre-accident 
value of the car to be £26,045 and offered to pay Mrs R this amount, less the policy excess. 
However, Mrs R was unhappy with this and so she complained. Mrs Rs main concerns 
were:
The customer service she received, in particular the way she was spoken to by one 
particular call handler. 
The delay in the recovery of her car leading to water damage which she felt 
contributed to the car being deemed a total loss.
The valuation of the car, which she felt was too low. She thought a fairer valuation 
would be around £29,000.
The loss of property which she said was left in the car boot when it was recovered.
Advantage upheld Mrs Rs complaint in relation to the customer service shed received. 
It offered her £100 compensation for the upset caused. However, it maintained that the 
valuation was fair.
Mrs R remained dissatisfied and so she brought her complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint in relation to the valuation of the car. They felt 
£27,914.50 was a fairer figure. However, they didnt think the evidence supported Mrs Rs 
account that the property was in the boot when it was recovered. They didnt think water 
damage was relevant to the fact Mrs Rs car was deemed a total loss. The investigator noted 
Mrs R didnt ask our service to look at the customer service received and so didnt address 
this part of Mrs Rs original complaint. 
Advantage disagreed with the investigators valuation, so the matters been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see that our investigator did check with Mrs R whether she felt the £100 award for 
poor customer service was fair and asked her to let us know if she wanted us to consider 
this further. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she wants a decision on this part of her 
complaint and so I dont intend to comment on this here.
The claims notes state Mrs R was told by two independent mechanics that the car was a 
total loss prior to the water damage occurring. The engineers report provided by Advantage 
doesnt suggest water damage was relevant when it was determined the car was a total loss 
either. Given this, Im satisfied on balance that any delay in the collection of the car didnt 
disadvantage Mrs R. And that Advantage was reasonable in deciding the car was a total 
loss.
Ive then considered the valuation of the car. The terms and conditions of Mrs Rs policy 
state that when a car is deemed a total loss and Advantage decide to pay the consumer to 
settle the claim, it will pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss. 
Advantage told us it used three different motor-trade guides to obtain valuations which gave 
the following figures: £27,350; £24,646; £23,805. It noted the valuation it ultimately gave 
Mrs R was greater than the average of all the guides and greater than an average of the 
guides it considered to be the most consistent. 
Our investigator didnt think the valuation of £23,805 was reliable as it was not obtained 
directly from the relevant motor-trade guides website but via a third partys website. 
Our investigator checked one other motor-trade guide which provided a further valuation 
figure of £28,479. They observed that the lower of the three remaining valuations (£28,479; 
£27,350; £24,646) was markedly different from the other two and so they discounted it as an 
outlier. They felt a fair market valuation for Mrs Rs car was an average between the 
remaining two figures.
Market value is about the price the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable car at 
the time the car was damaged. Establishing the market value of a car is not an exact science 
but the valuations from motor trade-guides are usually the most persuasive evidence. 
The figures given in these guides will, however, vary and where they do, our service 
considers it fair and reasonable to discount outliers unless theres persuasive evidence 
otherwise. I also agree with the investigator that our service wouldnt consider the valuation 
of £23,805 reliable here because of the way it was obtained.
In these specific circumstances Im satisfied that the motor-trade valuations that should be 
relied on are £28,479 and £27,350. Given Advantages valuation of Mrs Rs car is below 
both of these figures, I dont think its fair. Overall, I agree with our investigator that a 
reasonable approach would be for Advantage to take an average of these two valuations, a 
figure of £27,914.50.
Mrs R also told us she had just paid for her car warranty to be extended prior to the accident. 
But unfortunately, having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, Im satisfied this 
type of loss isnt covered. So, I wouldnt expect Advantage to consider this cost when settling 
the claim. And Im satisfied that the condition of the car and its specification are taken into 
account via the use of the relevant motor-trade guide valuation tools.
Im aware Advantage has already paid Mrs R £26,045, less the policy excess. So, I think it 
should now pay Mrs R the difference between the two valuations - an additional £1869.50. 
I also think it should pay Mrs R 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the rest of 
the claim was settled until the date this is paid. Although it will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, I dont think Advantage should be asked 
to cover the cost of the property shes reported missing from the boot of the car. I say this as 
theres no evidence to support Mrs Rs account that these were here. And the evidence I do 
have suggests Mrs R ought reasonably to have known to remove the property to ensure its 
safekeeping. I say this noting the car wasnt secure (water was able to get in) and shed 
been told by two mechanics the car was likely to be a total loss.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Advantage 
Insurance Company Ltd to:
Pay Mrs R £1869.50 plus 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the rest of 
the claim was settled until the date this payment is made.
If Advantage Insurance Company Ltd considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% 
interest element of my award it may do so, but it should give Mrs R the necessary certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman