DRN-2495081
The complaint
 Ms B is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas)
under her HomeCare Central Heating Breakdown Cover. 
What happened
 Ms B noticed on the morning of 14 October 2019 that there was no hot water or heat at her 
property. Ms B reported this to British Gas at around 8am. British Gas say Ms B told it there 
was a vulnerable person at the property.
During the call Ms B asked for British Gas to give her a two-hour time slot within which the 
engineer would call. British Gas said it couldnt narrow the slot down to further than the 
morning but confirmed the engineer would call Ms B when he was on his way.
Ms B called British Gas about an hour later because an all-day appointment had been 
booked. British Gas told Ms B it couldnt give her an accurate estimate of when an engineer 
would arrive and it could be anytime up to 6pm. Ms B complained because she felt that 
shed been given inaccurate information during the first call. Ms B requested that the 
engineer call before he arrived. British Gas confirmed the engineer would call when he was 
on his way.
British Gas records note that an engineer arrived at Ms Bs property at around 10.30am. Ms 
B says she saw a British Gas vehicle driving away from her house but there had been no 
knock at her door, shed not received a call and the engineer hadnt left a card. She says she 
got in her car to chase the vehicle but couldnt get the engineers attention. Ms B called 
British Gas to try to get the engineer to come back. It said it was unable to do this but 
booked another appointment for later that day. Ms B told British Gas she wanted the 
behaviour of the engineer added to her complaint.
A second engineer attended at about 3.19pm. Ms B says he told her the boiler needed to be 
re-pressurised. He carried out work and left at about 4.41pm when Ms Bs radiators 
appeared to be heating up again. But later that day, Ms Bs hot water and heating failed 
again. Ms B contacted British Gas and a third engineer attended within around 48 hours. Ms 
B said the third engineer called before arriving at her property and fixed her heating and hot 
water. Ms B said he did the same thing as the second engineer but waited to make sure the 
system didnt fail again.
British Gas upheld Ms Bs complaint. British Gas offered Ms B £20 compensation for the 
service failure of the call handlers shed spoken because theyd told her the first engineer 
would call when he was on his way when they shouldnt have done. It explained that it 
doesnt offer two-hour time slots and that emergency appointments are prioritised based on 
the greatest need of the household or danger to the public. It said that its the customers 
responsibility to allow British Gas to gain access to a property. It said the first engineer 
arrived to find no-one at home, no answer when he called the mobile phone number hed 
been given and no place to leave a card at the property. During its investigation, British Gas 
spoke to Ms B and she said she felt the second engineer hadnt done his job properly 
because he shouldnt have left her property until the whole house had heated up. British Gas 
said that because the boiler was working when the second engineer left the property after 
hed tested it, it wouldnt view this as poor quality work.
Ms B brought the complaint to us. She didnt think £20 was enough compensation. She told 
us that her mother needs hot water for medical reasons. Ms B sent a photo of the front of her 
property showing there was a letter box where the engineer could have left a card right next 
to her door buzzer.
British Gas told us that its terms and conditions state it will attend a property within a 
reasonable timescale. It felt that attending Ms Bs property within a day was a very good and 
satisfactory level of service. It also told us that the third visit was unrelated to the previous 
issue.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He felt the timeframe British Gas gave for 
the first engineer to attend was reasonable. He also felt the third engineer attended within a 
reasonable timeframe. He said its not uncommon for further issues with a boiler to become 
apparent once a first issue is fixed and that the information provided by British Gas showed 
that the boiler failed after the second engineers visit for a new and different reason. He felt 
£20 was reasonable compensation for the engineer not phoning when British Gas said hed 
call as this only led to Ms B being without heat or hot water for a further few extra hours.
Ms B didnt agree with this view. She felt she deserved more compensation. Ms B felt that 
because British Gas information had been contradicted by her, it cast doubt on other 
information British Gas had provided. Our investigator explained we take into account all 
evidence unless it can be proven to be incorrect. But Ms B still felt the second engineer 
hadnt done enough to fix her boiler. Our investigators view remained unchanged.
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked British Gas to provide me with recordings of the calls Ms B made to it on the morning 
of 14 October 2019. British Gas said it was unable to provide these recordings as they are 
no longer available because of the time that has passed.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part by increasing 
her compensation to a total of £50. 
Ms B told us about other matters concerning British Gas that she was unhappy about, but 
because these had not been raised as part of this complaint, I was unable to consider them 
as part of my provisional decision. So my provisional decision only concerned Ms Bs 
complaint about the service provided by British Gas when her heating and hot water failed at 
her property between the 14 and 16 October 2019.  I explained my provisional findings to 
both parties as follows: 
British Gas call notes show it told Ms B during two separate calls that the first engineer 
would call her when he was on his way. It is not in dispute that the British Gas engineer had 
travelled to Ms Bs property. But what is in dispute is whether the engineer called or 
knocked. The engineers notes on British Gas system say there was nowhere to leave a card and there was no answer when he called and pressed the buzzer. But Ms B told British 
Gas that the engineer cant have knocked as there was someone at the property at the time 
and no-one heard anything. And that he didnt phone or leave a card - despite her letter box 
being next to the buzzer. I am unable to make a finding on whether or not the engineer 
phoned Ms B or buzzed at her property. But what I can make a finding on is whether British 
Gas did what Id have expected it to under the terms of Ms Bs policy, given that the first 
engineer was unable to gain access to Ms Bs property.
Ms Bs policy says, Its your responsibility to give us access to your property. If we cant get 
access we wont be able to complete the work and its then up to you to arrange another 
appointment. So according to the policys terms, its Ms Bs responsibility to ensure an 
engineer can access her property and not the engineers responsibility to call her so that she 
can provide access. So I dont think the first engineer did anything wrong given the policys 
terms if he didnt call Ms B. But British Gas told Ms B twice the engineer would call. And 
British Gas investigation notes say that its call handlers should have been clearer with Ms B 
that a call is not guaranteed. So I think its fair that British Gas have offered Ms B 
compensation for this, as this is what Id have expected it to do.
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy say:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I can see from British Gas call notes it told Ms B during her first call that it couldnt give her a 
two-hour time slot, so I am satisfied that British Gas was clear with Ms B on this. And I dont 
think its unreasonable, given the above policy term which says, within a reasonable time, 
that British Gas couldnt accommodate Ms Bs request for a two-hour time slot or that she 
was given an all-day appointment.
When Ms B called British Gas to explain that the first engineer had not been able to access 
her property, it arranged for a second engineer to attend the same day. But Ms B and her 
vulnerable mother were left without heat and water for around a further five hours before the 
second engineer arrived. Whilst I appreciate Ms Bs frustration that her boiler wasnt fixed by 
the first engineer, I think the second engineer attending when he did is a reasonable time 
frame and is in line with the above policy terms.
When Ms Bs boiler failed a second time, British Gas were able to attend and fix it on 16 
October when shed first reported the problem at around 8am on 14 October, which I think is 
still within a reasonable time frame and is in line with policys terms - even when taking into 
account Ms Bs mothers vulnerabilities.
Ms B felt the second engineer hadnt done all he could to fix her boiler. But I dont think its 
unreasonable for the engineer to have left once he could tell the heating had started to work, 
when the issue Ms B reported to British Gas was that she had no hot water or heat. Ms B felt 
that the second engineer hadnt done what he should have because she says the third 
engineer fixed her boiler by doing the same thing as the second engineer. But its not 
unusual for a fault to be repaired only for a second one to become apparent. And British 
Gas records appear to note that the second engineer repaired a leak and the third engineer 
attended to the boilers pressure, and I accept that these arent the same issues. So I cant 
say on balance that there was anything wrong with the work of the second engineer.
It seems the first call hander shouldnt have told Ms B that the engineer would arrive during 
the morning, as this led Ms B to call British Gas again to ask why her appointment had been 
booked all day and to complain. And British Gas investigation notes say the advisor should have been clearer that this was not guaranteed, just that we should be able to attend that 
morning. British Gas didnt mention this misinformation in its response to Ms Bs complaint. 
And didnt appear to offer her any compensation for this because the £20 appears to have 
been awarded for the engineers call that wasnt received.
British Gas have already offered £20 compensation to Ms B for telling her that the first 
engineer would phone when it couldnt guarantee this. But I think this should be increased. If 
Ms B had been told the engineer might not call, I would expect shed have watched more 
closely for the engineer, which may have prevented her from feeling she needed to chase 
the engineer down the road in her car and having to make another call to British Gas and 
complain. And I think British Gas should also compensate Ms B for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by it initially telling her the appointment would be a morning one when British 
Gas only offers all day emergency appointments. So I am minded to award Ms B a total of 
£50 compensation for her trouble and upset, which I think is fair and reasonable. I am 
minded not to require British Gas to do anything further.
Neither British Gas nor Ms B accepted my provisional decision. 
British Gas said it felt the £20 compensation it had already offered Ms B was adequate 
pointing out it attended Ms Bs property within a reasonable timescale and in line with its 
terms and conditions. In my provisional decision Id already said that British Gas attended 
and fixed Ms Bs boiler within a reasonable timeframe and in line with the policys terms. But 
I increased Ms Bs compensation because she wasnt initially told her appointment would be 
an all-day one and because I didnt think £20 was fair compensation for British Gas not 
telling her the engineer may not phone her. 
Ms B said she felt the second engineer had recorded the reason for the fault incorrectly but 
also accepted she was unable to provide evidence to support this because she no longer 
had the paperwork left by the engineer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 And Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Because neither response from either party has provided any new information or arguments 
that have persuaded me to depart from my provisional findings, Ive decided to uphold Ms 
Bs complaint in part and in line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part. I instruct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms B a 
total of £50 compensation. If it hasnt already done so, British Gas Insurance Limited should 
pay Ms B the £20 compensation it has already offered her as well as a further £30.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman