DRN-2976870
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes unhappy with 
the service he received when he asked HSBC to process chargebacks for a car that he 
ordered and then had to cancel.
What happened
Mr B paid a deposit of £14,000 for a car using his HSBC credit card. He had several 
requirements of the car dealership supplying the car and, when it couldnt meet his needs, 
he cancelled the car and asked it to return his deposit. When it refused, he contacted HSBC 
to see whether he could seek reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
he placed an order for the car on 19 June 2020 and he told the dealership that 
because of holidays booked in August, the car would need to be delivered to him by 
end of July at the latest;
the dealership assured him this would be possible, and Mr B paid a deposit of 
£14,000 in three transactions on 27 June;
two weeks later the dealership said thered be delays in the delivery of the vehicle, 
but Mr B says he initially reached a satisfactory solution with the dealership about the 
delivery of the vehicle and the loan of another car on until the order car arrived;
the dealership subsequently withdrew its offer and on 24 July, Mr B cancelled the 
order and sought a refund of the deposit hed already paid;
the dealership rejected his request and he asked HSBC to help him;
a month later  27 August  he realised no action had yet been taken by the bank 
and he learned that it still expected him to make his monthly credit card payment  
which was not what hed been told when he first contacted it on 24 July;
he made a number of lengthy telephone calls to HSBC to no avail  the investigation 
didnt progress and call-backs hed been promised didnt happen;
the bank suspended some of the interest charged on the credit card balance, but he 
was charged some interest; and the whole thing has affected his credit rating;
the bank caused him a lot of sleepless nights and the service it provided was awful; 
he thinks its offer of £150 compensation is derisory and HSBC should pay him more 
compensation for the delays hes experienced and the poor service hes been given.
 
HSBC upheld this complaint and acknowledged the poor service Mr B had been given. It 
confirmed that all three chargebacks totalling £14,000 had been successful and it said the 
temporary credits it had made to Mr Bs account on 15 October were permanent.
It says its also credited Mr B credit card account with £418.51 in respect of the interest and 
charges that were applied to his account, and that this covers his credit card financial loss in 
full. HSBC said it checked Mr Bs credit file and confirmed that no adverse information had 
been reported to the credit reference agencies.
HSBC said it recognised that Mr B had endured numerous and lengthy calls trying to 
resolve this matter and it offered him £150 for any distress and inconvenience it had 
caused.
HSBC told us that the pandemic has caused many problems and that at the time Mr B 
contacted it, there were unprecedented times and delays for materials, goods and services. 
It said that the number of claims and disputes had increased exceptionally, and this wasnt 
something that was in its control.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained hed considered whether HSBC couldve done more to resolve things sooner. He 
acknowledged the poor service Mr B had received and the fact that hed needed to make 
many telephone calls to have his chargeback progressed, but he thought the £150 offered 
by HSBC was suitable compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint and he didnt 
think the bank needed to do anything more.
Mr B disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I think HSBC should pay Mr B £150 compensation and that this would be 
the fair way to settle this complaint.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr B received from HSBC. This is because although Mr B disputed a payments totalling 
£14,000 that were charged to his account in June 2020, both parties have now confirmed 
that this amount was credited back to Mr Bs account on 15 October 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for HSBC to ask for a payment Mr B 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Mr B paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that the goods werent supplied by the merchant  it couldnt fulfil 
Mr Bs requirements and he cancelled the order. And in normal circumstances, it would 
seem reasonable to expect HSBC to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this 
scenario is one that is covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that 
the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes, even if the time taken and 
the service provided werent at the level they shouldve been.I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was frustrating for Mr B. Hed paid a 
lot of money for an item that wasnt delivered and then had been unable to obtain a refund 
from the merchant. But I cant hold HSBC responsible for any of this because the initial 
problems were caused by the dealership, and then compounded by the pandemic. 
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr B first contacted HSBC, dealing 
with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the 
global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service that HSBC provided; the difficulties that Mr B faced in 
trying to speak to someone at HSBC; its failure to call him back when promised and the 
generally poor service he was given. I think it shouldve better explained to Mr B the 
chargeback process and the likely timescales and I think it couldve obtained the additional 
information it needed from him sooner.
And although Mr B had all his money refunded on 15 October  just a few days after he was 
able to speak with someone who actually took ownership of the problem and knew what 
needed to happen  I can understand the worry and inconvenience that Mr B experienced.
Putting things right
Although I wouldve expected the bank to identify vulnerable customers who may need more 
immediate support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr B fell into this 
category. So, for the reasons Ive given, Im going to ask HSBC to pay Mr B the £150 it 
offered him, if it hasnt already done so, in recognition of the worry and inconvenience it 
caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I 
dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman