DRN-3420933
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Equifax Limited reaches its credit score and information 
recorded on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr O has explained hes been monitoring his credit score for some time in the hopes of 
improving it. In May 2020 Mr O complained to Equifax about disputed entries on his credit 
file. Mr O also says the way Equifax calculates his credit score was unfair. 
Equifax raised a dispute and asked for information from the reporting business concerning 
its entry on Mr Os credit file. At the time of issuing its final response in December 2020, 
Equifax hadnt received a full response. So Equifax took the step of temporarily deleting the 
entry to allow more time for the business to respond. Equifax provided information 
concerning how its credit score was reached but didnt agree it had treated Mr O unfairly. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Equifax had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr O asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O raises concerns over the way Equifax reaches its credit score and has asked us to 
investigate algorithms it may use. I want to explain the we cant tell a business how to 
operate  including how a credit score is calculated. We arent the industry regulator and 
dont set the rules under which a business operates. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service. That means well consider the circumstances of a complaint and where the actions 
of a business have led to an unfair loss to a consumer we can award compensation. But, 
even if I were to uphold Mr Os complaint, I couldnt tell Equifax how to calculate its credit 
score. 
Ive looked at what Equifax says concerning how Mr Os credit score has been reached. 
Equifax has explained that businesses record entries on a credit file to reflect their 
relationship with a borrower. The information recorded by each business (for example new 
accounts, increased/decreased account balances, type of credit, credit searches, missed 
payments, etc) will all have an impact on a credit score. Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I 
havent seen anything that shows Equifax made mistakes or treated him unfairly when 
providing a credit score.
I think its also reasonable to note that Equifaxs credit score is an indicator of how a 
consumers credit is managed. Equifaxs final response explained the score isnt given to 
lenders. And each lender is responsible for carrying out its own lending assessments based 
on its criteria. So whilst Mr Os score may go up and down as information on his credit file 
changes, its up to each business to decide whether to approve an application. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I havent been persuaded that Equifax has treated him 
unfairly in the way it reaches his credit score. 
Mr O has also complained about entries from businesses where he disputes the information 
recorded. But Equifax cant delete information without first contacting the business thats 
reporting it. I understand Mr O disputes account information recorded by different 
businesses. But as Equifax and the investigator have said, if Mr O feels the information 
those businesses have recorded is inaccurate, he has the option of disputing it with the 
businesses directly. I can see that Equifax also raised a dispute in relation to one of the 
entries Mr O has highlighted which is in line with what Id expect it to do. I wouldnt expect 
Equifax to amend or remove an entry without confirmation from the reporting business. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr O but as Im satisfied Equifax dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman