The complaint
Miss T, who is represented by Mr M, complains that PSA Finance UK Limited charged her 
for missing documentation when she returned a car.
What happened
In April 2016 Miss T acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement. The agreement 
came to an end and Miss T returned the car. PSA charged her for a missing service book, 
manual and an incomplete service history.
Mr M says that Miss T contacted PSA shortly before collection to say that she hadnt been 
given a manual or stamped service book and had been told by the dealer not to worry as the 
information was held electronically. However, she was then charged for these missing items. 
She also didnt have the car serviced prior to collection for which PSA imposed charge. She 
explained that she hadnt been notified by the dealer that the service was due.
She complained to PSA and it agreed to reduce the missing service history charge by 50% 
and the missing service charge by 25%. She then brought her complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted Miss T said she hadnt received the service book or manual when she acquired the 
car, but he thought this was unusual and if that had been the case he would have expected 
Miss T to have raised the matter with the dealer. He noted that PSA didnt dispute that the 
first two services had been carried out, but there was no recorded service book to show this.
He referred to the guidance which stated that even when the service record is kept 
electronically, the consumer must still produce evidence that the vehicle has been serviced 
and maintained according to the manufacturers service and maintenance schedule. 
Appropriate evidence would include hard copies of the services record or invoice clearly 
showing the date, vehicle mileage and the repairer/service agents stamp. 
He said that as no invoices or hard copies of documentation relating to the services in 2017 
and 2018 were provided during the inspection, PSA was entitled to charge for these.
On the matter of the missed service he said it was Miss Ts responsibility to ensure the car 
was serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations and the fact the dealer hadnt 
reminded her was not a reason to escape the charge.
Mr M didnt agree and said that in calls to PSA it had said not worry about the missing 
manual and service book. It also had mentioned this was a common problem with the 
manufacturer. He asked that the investigator obtain and listen to the call recordings. Our 
investigator listened to the recordings and said they showed PSA had been sympathetic to 
DRN-1504583Miss T. The call handler had explained that the dealer should have stamped the service 
book and PSA had received a large number of disputes about this. The call handler didnt 
accept any responsivity by PSA, but didnt put any blame on Miss T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss T, but I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
Miss T signed an agreement which states: It is your responsibility to ensure that the repairer 
stamps the vehicles service book each time the vehicle is serviced (the service book must 
be returned to us on the day of collection if the vehicle is recovered by us for any reason). 
The literature sent out by PSA prior to collection also makes it clear that she must: return all 
items that were supplied with the car (e.g. spare key, service book, etc.) and make sure the 
car has a full service history and stamped service book available.
I believe her responsibilities were made sufficiently clear. I appreciate she considers that the 
dealer failed to supply those items for which she has been charged. That may be the case, 
but it was her responsibility to ensure she had the required documents and so it was up to 
her to obtain them from the dealer. PSA is a separate entity from the dealer, although I 
understand they are connected. PSA had a contract with Miss T, not the dealer and it can 
only enforce the terms and conditions of that agreement with her. 
I would add that it was open to her to provide hard copies of invoices which I presume she 
had been given each time she paid for a service. As for the missing service while it can be 
convenient for the dealer to remind the user of a car that one is due the responsibility of the 
user to ensure it is serviced. I presume had Miss T had the service done she would have 
had to pay a broadly similar amount to the sum she was charged by PSA. As such I dont 
consider it likely that she has made any significant loss in that regard.
I appreciate the strength of feeling shown in pursuit of this complaint, but on balance I do not 
consider I can uphold it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman