The complaint
Miss M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APSL) wont let her access 
her own money  she says shes had problems getting a bank card sent to her for the 
account she wants to use and APSL wont give her the money held in another account she 
no longer requires. 
What happened
Miss M says she has been unable to access the funds in her account and she was told she 
couldnt have another bank card. She told us that she tried to open an account with APSL 
but because of the problems she experienced she ended up with two accounts. She says:
She asked APSL to close one of the accounts and send her a cheque for the balance
but she never received the cheque. So she complained to APSL because shes not
receiving the service she expects and shes paying a monthly fee for this account.
APSL wrote to her to say it would offer her the money in her bank account but she
would forfeit her rights to refer her complaint to this Service. Miss M says this isnt
an offer  its her money  but APSL is holding her funds and using her own money
as leverage.
APSL partly upheld this complaint. It says Miss M didnt pass customer verification when she 
telephoned to discuss her first bank account. And because of this, its representative 
shouldnt have proceeded to discuss Miss Ms second account with her without first of all 
completing additional security questioning. It apologised for this failure and for the delay in 
sending Miss M a cheque for the balance in the account she wanted to close.
APSL explained that although it did eventually send the cheque to Miss M, it was returned 
because she no longer resided at the address it held on file. It offered to send Miss M a new 
cheque but said shed need to provide it with a certified proof of address. Alternatively it 
offered to transfer the remaining balance of the account to be closed to Miss Ms other 
account as a one off exceptionplease note that if you are accepting the offer of a transfer, 
you are doing so in full and final settlement of the complaint and waive the right to escalate 
the matter to any external organisation.
APSL said that when a customer changes address and then requests a new bank card, it 
requires a 30-day wait period before the new bank card can be sent out. It says it can send 
out the new card more quickly if the customer sends it a certified proof of address.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld and she 
asked APSL to pay Miss M £75 in compensation. She said she was awarding compensation 
DRN-1240196to Miss M because of the time it was taking APSL to give Miss M her own money. And she 
asked APSL to complete the transfer of funds as soon as possible. 
She explained shed looked at what had happened when Miss M requested a new bank 
card, but she didnt think APSL had done anything wrong. She explained that it needs to 
protect its customers personal information and although she understood it wouldve been 
frustrating for Miss M, she said its policy was fair  APSL needed proof of address before it 
issued a new bank card.
APSL disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done I think the adjudicator has 
reached the right outcome here. Its important I highlight that Miss M has another complaint 
about APSL with our Service, so I wont be dealing with any aspects of that complaint in this 
final decision. This final decision is only concerned with Miss Ms complaint about;
the delays in being sent a replacement bank card.
the difficulty in closing one of her accounts and having the residual balance 
transferred to her.
 
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that, although frustrating, APSL didnt do anything wrong 
when it asked Miss M to provide proof of address when she wanted a replacement bank 
card sending to a different address. It seems sensible to me that APSL has a policy in place 
so that it sends out replacement bank cards securely. And as this was a new address that 
Miss M had given it, I can understand why it needed Miss M to send it proof of address if she 
wanted her new bank card quickly. I understand that this aspect of Miss Ms complaint is 
now resolved and that she now has her replacement bank card.
Im not satisfied, however, with how APSL dealt with Miss Ms request to have her own 
money transferred to her. I understand the problem it faced with posting her a cheque  it 
hadnt yet verified her new address  even though it erroneously posted a cheque to her 
which, through good fortune was returned undelivered.
But I see no reason whatsoever why APSL cannot transfer the cash balance in the account 
that Miss M no longer requires to her other account  the one she wants to retain. Both 
accounts are held by APSL and I understand that it knows which account to close and which 
account to keep open.
Putting things right
So Im going to direct it to make that transfer within 14 days of todays date, the date of this 
final decision. And Im also going to direct APSL to pay Miss M £75 in compensation in 
respect of the poor service shes received. It should pay the compensation into Miss Ms 
account  the one she wants to retain - so that she encounters no further delays with the 
processing and posting of another cheque by APSL.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct:
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to pay Miss M £75 to settle this complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to transfer the balance from the account
Miss M wants to close to the account that she wants to retain. This transfer must take
place within the next 14 days.
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to add simple interest (at 8% a year) to the
balance being transferred if it fails to complete the transfer with the next 14 days.
Simple interest should then be paid until the transfer is complete.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to take off
tax from this interest. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must give Miss M a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman