DRN-3977722
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to withdraw her policy and cancel her cover. 
What happened
Miss S had a dental insurance policy with Unum. She took the policy out in 2017 and her 
cover ended in January 2023 when it was withdrawn. Miss S said she never made a claim in 
the six years she had the cover and so shed like Unum to refund the premiums she paid 
during that time. 
Unum refused her request and said whilst it was providing cover, Miss S would have to pay 
for it. Unum also said its decision to withdraw the product was a commercial decision and 
that it offered other insurance policies should its customers want to continue to receive 
dental cover, albeit on different terms. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said Unum was entitled to withdraw 
the policy as this forms part of its commercial right. She explained all consumers under that 
particular policy were affected and so she didnt think it had treated her unfairly by singling 
her out. She also maintained that Unum should keep the premiums Miss S paid because it 
was on risk during that time. 
Miss S disagreed. In summary, she explained that she was a model consumer because she 
didnt bring a claim whilst cover was in place. She said on that basis, Unum should look to 
refund her at least some of the premiums shed paid over the years. And so, its for me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied Unum has withdrawn the policy fairly and 
I dont think it needs to refund any of the premiums paid by Miss S. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
We reserve the right to review and change your premiums on each 12-month policy 
anniversary and will notify you 30 days in advance. We may also choose not to renew the 
policy by giving you 30 days notice in writing
Its important to understand that Unum is able to make commercially based decisions about 
the products it offers its consumers. This includes whether to withdraw products from the 
insurance market. The ombudsman isnt here to tell firms, like Unum, how to do business as 
that remains part of Unums commercial right. And so, the ombudsman cannot involve itself 
in that process. 
The terms set out how Unum may review and change its policies and so Ive considered 
whether its acted in accordance with these. Im satisfied it has because Unum notified Miss 
S back in August 2022  which was almost six months prior to withdrawing the policy. The 
terms say itll give 30 days notice prior to making changes, or not renewing policies, so Im 
satisfied it gave ample notice and didnt breach the policy terms here. 
Miss S requested part, or all of the premiums she paid, be refunded because she didnt 
make a claim whilst she was on cover with Unum. But thats not how this policy works. Ive 
considered the terms and theres nothing within them that would suggest she receive a 
refund of her premiums simply because the policy was withdrawn. Theres also no savings 
or investment element attached to the policy and so its unclear why Miss S expected to 
receive back any part of the premiums she paid. 
Unum provided cover from 2017  2023 and its fair that Miss S pay for that. I accept she 
may not have brought a claim during that time, but that doesnt mean Unum wouldnt have 
paid a successful claim. The terms say Unum will provide cover as long as Miss S paid her 
premiums. Unum provided the cover  albeit no claims were made  so its fair that Miss S 
pay for that. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint because I dont think Unum has made an error or treated 
Miss S unfairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman