DRN-4445757
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the money 
he sent to a third party.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Halifax to refund the money 
Mr N paid. I can appreciate this is not the outcome Mr N was hoping for, so I will explain 
why. 
For the reasons the investigator explained, the CRM Code does not apply in this case. It is 
also the case that the payments were made under coercion or duress by blackmail. So, 
whilst Mr N was tricked into sharing sensitive images of himself  he was not tricked or 
deceived into making the payments themselves. Because Mr N made the payments under 
duress and not under deception  is a further reason meaning he would be ineligible for the 
protection the CRM Code can provide.
Im satisfied these disputed payments were all authorised by Mr N. Indeed, he says he 
knowingly made the payments because of a threat of blackmail against him. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises using their payment tools, in accordance with 
the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
This means that Mr N is presumed responsible for the card payments in the first instance.
This means that unless there was a breach or failing by Halifax that ought to shift liability, 
Mr N cannot claim that the bank ought to reimburse his loss. 
However, based on relevant regulations and various principles of good practice, there 
are certain circumstances where I would expect a bank, such as Halifax, to intervene with a 
consumers payment instruction(s). Should the situation warrant it, Halifax could be held 
accountable for Mr Ns loss if it failed to identify and act upon transactions that were unusual 
or uncharacteristic enough compared to the accounts typical account activity.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr N when it processed the card payments or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Mr N says Halifax should have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
payments  especially as they were mainly funded by a loan he also took out with Halifax. 
Its only fair for Halifax to cover the loss incurred if it can reasonably be concluded that such 
an intervention would have resulted in Mr N cancelling the payments. So, Ive first thought 
about whether the payments Mr N made were out of character and unusual enough so that 
Halifax ought to have challenged them, and, if it had done so, whether it would have made a 
difference to what happened. 
I am not entirely convinced that the succession of payments Mr N complains about exhibited 
particularly concerning or irregular account behaviour  certainly to start with. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of card payments made each day and 
it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one.  Mr Ns bank 
statements in the months leading up to the disputed payment confirm that making card 
payments to a money remittance service wasnt something he typically did. But the largest 
payment he made was £2,701 and the payments were spread out. Its not uncommon for 
someone to make a large payment for a specific purpose and on the face of it, theres 
nothing unusual about these payment amounts in and of themselves, even though I 
appreciate the amount was more than Mr N usually spends and I recognise its not an 
insignificant amount of money to Mr N.
Mr N had funds available each time and I consider the individual transactions were 
unremarkable in and amongst Mr Ns spending. Its possible towards the end of the 
succession of payments the account does appear to become drained  so Halifax might 
reasonably have been expected to step in. So, I have gone to think about whether 
intervention could reasonably have made a difference here.
Im required to make this decision based on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I find 
more likely than not to have happened. Ive carefully considered all of the available 
evidence, paying particular attention to what we know about Mr Ns state of affairs when 
making the payments, together with the behaviour he demonstrated both before and after
these transactions left his Halifax account.
It is difficult to say that intervention would have made a difference. Mr N knew he was being 
blackmailed and it was quite some time before he was able to disclose the matter to his 
father. Mr N had applied for a loan with Halifax to fund these payments  but when asked 
about the purpose of the loan he said it was to pay debts. So, there is enough doubt in my 
mind that Mr N would not have been open and honest with Halifax about the true purpose for 
the payments  especially as in was in fear of the images being forwarded to family and 
work colleagues. 
Finally, Mr N has submitted that Halifax shouldve paid greater attention to his account 
movements in light of his mental health. However, as I understand it, Halifax was not aware 
of Mr Ns condition, nor his mental wellbeing at the material time. To that end, I cannot fairly 
factor this into the banks decision making.
Mr N has my sympathies. But overall, Im not satisfied that there has been a bank error in 
this case. This is not to say that Mr N hasnt been a victim of this awful crime - just simply 
that I dont think I can hold the bank accountable in this case. I am sorry to have to deliver 
this news to Mr N. I do understand why he feels so strongly about this complaint. He was 
cruelly deceived by someone into sharing sensitive images of himself. But my role as an 
Ombudsman is limited to determining whether Halifax bears any responsibility for Mr Ns 
financial loss.
Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Halifax liable in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision it that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman