DRN-1440199
 
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with BOS in 1999. At the same time he was sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover his credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and thought the policy provided a useful benefit.
Mr M disagreed. He says he thought he had to take the PPI to get the credit card. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M applied for his credit card by completing a postal application form. BOS needed to 
make it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr M agreed to take it. Mr M says this 
wasnt done, but hasnt given us much detail about what made him think this. But I think 
thats understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So to make my decision Ive relied 
more on what the documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Ive looked at the original credit card application sent to us by BOS completed and signed by 
Mr M. In the section titled payment protection I can see that information is given about PPI 
and there are two places to sign to either take, or decline PPI. I can see that Mr M has 
signed in the place to take PPI.
If Mr M didnt want the cover he couldve signed under the option to decline PPI. So I think 
its likely Mr M wouldve understood the PPI was optional and he signed in the section to 
take PPI because he wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think BOS advised Mr M to take PPI. 
What this means is that BOS didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, it just gave him information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.BOS say that sufficient information wouldve been given to allow Mr M to make an informed 
choice on whether to add PPI to his account. I can see some information on PPI is given on 
the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was given. 
That being said even if BOS did give all the information Mr M needed to make an informed 
choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time 
of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to some sick pay and says his 
partner couldve helped him make his credit card payments if he couldnt work. But a 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially 
longer for up to 12 months per claim. So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman