DRN-2666119
The complaint
Miss H complained that Soteria Insurance Limited didnt handle her car repairs properly 
when she claimed under her car insurance policy.
What happened
After Miss Hs car was damaged in an accident, Soteria had their approved repairers (who Ill 
call Soterias garage) repair it. But she said she had to return her car to them multiple times 
because they hadnt repaired it properly. She thought they should have declared it 
uneconomic to repair. 
Soteria are only be responsible for any problems with the car that were caused by the 
accident or by their garages repairs. After they repaired her car, she said it had some 
problems; it was juddering when driven at more than 40 mph and was veering to one side. Ill 
call these the other matters. So Soteria had an independent engineer inspect her car. He 
agreed that there were some repairs that Soterias garage had done that they hadnt 
completed properly. These were mainly cosmetic. Soterias garage rectified these repairs. 
The engineer didnt detect juddering but suggested that Soteria should have the veering to 
one side investigated. So Soteria paid for these other matters to be investigated. But Soteria 
said the other matters hadnt been there when they tested her car before they first returned it 
to her in June, and she hadnt raised anything with Soteria until August. In their investigation 
of the car they found work done before the accident which they thought caused the other 
matters. So they still thought those other matters were not caused either by the accident or 
by their garages repairs.   
After this the independent engineer re-inspected Miss Hs car. He still wasnt sure what was 
causing the other matters, but he didnt conclude that they were Soterias responsibility. 
Despite that Soteria agreed to pay for further investigation including having the car looked at 
by a manufacturer garage. After that there was still nothing to link the other matters to the 
accident or Soterias garages repairs. So Soteria wouldnt pay to repair those. They though 
that the veering might be because all her cars tyres were different, but they werent 
responsible for that. However, as a gesture of goodwill, so that all her cars tyres would be 
the same, the garage offered to replace two of the tyres if she replaced the others. But Miss 
H didnt agree. 
But RSA accepted that the minor repairs hadnt been done right first time and it there had 
been some minor delay in getting her car into garage at first. So they offered her 
compensation of £150 for that. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that
RSAs actions to rectify the matter and their offer of £150 compensation were fair and
reasonable and recommended no further action. Miss H didnt agree to that and so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car could be caused as this is a matter for the
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these
complaints are to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence 
and whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Miss H was unhappy she been without her car while it was in the garage but still had to pay 
the finance on it. But as the investigator has explained, thats a matter between her and the 
finance provider. I dont think that Soteria did have her car longer than reasonably necessary 
to carry out the investigations shed wanted done.  
She thought that Soteria should have declared her car uneconomic to repair at the start 
rather than keep taking it back to repair it.  But Soteria have shown us evidence that at the 
start the repair costs were less than her cars market value and that even the subsequent  
investigation costs didnt make it uneconomic to repair. 
I do see that it must have been upsetting for Miss H to be without her car, but I cant say that 
Soteria are responsible for the matters wrong with it. Overall, I think that what RSA have 
done to resolve the issue with her car repairs was reasonable in the circumstances. They 
considered her concerns, had her car inspected more than once by an independent engineer 
and they acted on his recommendations, which I think is reasonable. I havent been shown 
any evidence to suggest that what Miss H said was still wrong with her car is related to the 
incident or Soterias garages repair.
And so I think that RSA did enough to fix her car and I dont require them to do any more 
repairs. I also think that RSAs offer of £150 did adequately compensate Miss H for the 
inconvenience she suffered due to their actions. Its not clear if they already paid her that 
amount or not but, if they havent, Id expect them to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
