DRN-3658772
The complaint
Mr G complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) registered a default on his credit file unfairly. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with UKI. It was paid for through a fixed sum loan 
agreement, also with UKI. In July 2021 Mr Gs insurance policy was cancelled with a small, 
final balance (£13.42) left to pay to settle the loan. 
Mr G was under the impression the final balance would be taken by direct debit on 
10 August 2021, so he cancelled the direct debit on 12 August 2021. UKI attempted to take 
the final payment shortly after 12 August 2021, so the direct debit was returned unpaid. I find 
this was a case of unfortunate timing, rather than the result of fault by either party. 
The final balance remained due. UKI has shown it sent letters by post to notify Mr G of this. 
Mr G says these letters werent received and questions why he wasnt contacted by email. I 
dont find it was wrong for UKI to write to Mr G by post, so I dont consider it to have let Mr G 
down here. I am, however, satisfied had Mr G received the letters he would have paid the 
final balance. It was, after all, only £13.42 and he later paid it without hesitation.
As the final balance remained due UKI registered the loan as in default on Mr Gs credit file. I 
find that reasonable. A balance was overdue and there were no signs of repayment. Mr G 
says he received an alert from a credit file service in late 2021, discovered the problem, and 
paid the final balance immediately. He asked UKI to remove the default. UKI refused. Im not 
persuaded UKI did anything wrong here. But it also has a duty to treat its customers fairly. 
I find the fair and reasonable action would have been for UKI to recognise this matter had 
arisen from an unfortunate set of circumstances, considered Mr Gs intentions and the small 
amount of money involved, considered whether a default is a true and accurate reflection of 
the way Mr G managed his loan, and agreed to remove the default.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to amend Mr Gs credit file to 
show the loan was settled in August 2021, meaning the default will be removed and no other 
adverse information should be present.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman