DRN-3680805
The complaint
Mr L says Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited didnt properly investigate a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy by a motorcyclist before settling it. 
What happened
Mr L said a named driver on his policy  Miss L  had pulled out from a side road across a 
main road. She said she was waiting to turn right into the other side of the road when a 
motorbike approached at speed from her right. Mr L said the motorcyclist tried to swerve 
round the car instead of stopping, lost control and fell off his bike. So there was no contact 
with the car. Watford said the motorcyclist claimed the car had collided with the bike. In its 
view, had Miss L not been there, the motorcyclist wouldnt have swerved. It said that rarely 
happens on a straight road unless evasive action is needed.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint. He noted that there were conflicting 
versions of events  and that Mr L had provided the details of three witnesses  but Watford 
hadnt contacted them. He said as it was possible that the motorcyclists loss of control of the 
bike wasnt Miss Ls fault, Watford should have done more to try to establish the facts. As he 
didnt think it had carried out a thorough investigation, he said Watford should put matters 
right by marking the claim as non-fault and allowing the no claims discount (NCD).
Mr L thought Watford should pay compensation as well, but Watford didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said that on the accident report form Miss L had said she was pulling out 
of the side road when she saw the motorbike approaching (not that she was established on 
the main road when he appeared). It said it thought Miss L had probably caused the 
accident, even if there was no collision. But it agreed it could have tried to contact the 
witnesses. 
The investigators view didnt change after hed considered the comments made by both 
parties. Watford then agreed to his proposals - although it said it thought a judge was likely 
to find in favour of the motorcyclist, as hed be considered a vulnerable road user. 
Mr B told us later that although Watford had told us the claim had been amended to show as 
non-fault, that wasnt the case. He said he wanted to proceed with his complaint and that he 
also sought redress for the upset and inconvenience caused by Watford. The investigator 
pointed out that we couldnt look into anything that happened after Mr L brought his original 
complaint to us. He also said we cant look into its complaints handling, as it isnt a regulated 
activity that falls within our remit. He then passed the complaint on to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We look at whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has settled a 
claim, which includes the quality of the investigation it carried out. In my opinion, sometimes 
the available evidence may be so clear cut that it isnt necessary for an insurer to interview 
witnesses. But in a case like this, I think it should have been done. 
Watford made its decision on the balance of probabilities. In my opinion, contacting the 
witnesses may not have made any difference, as they may not have wanted to comment, 
their evidence may have been unclear, or it may have pointed to Miss L having been at fault. 
But at least one of them may have co-operated with Watford  and their account(s) may 
have shown she wasnt at fault. In those circumstances, Watford could have defended the 
claim, and the fault claim on Mr Ls policy, plus the loss of NCD, could have been avoided. 
Watford has since accepted that it should have contacted the witnesses and agreed to 
change the status of the claim on the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE) to non-fault 
and to allow the NCD. I think thats a fair and reasonable way of finalising this complaint.
Naturally, Miss L was upset by the incident. Mr L says that (potentially) she lost the ability to 
drive. But I dont think insurers can be expected to compensate for potential outcomes.
 
I think Miss L would also have been upset by having been held at fault for the accident. Mr L 
was upset about that too. And he was inconvenienced when dealing with Watford and in 
searching for an acceptable quote with a fault claim on his policy and the loss of NCD. But I 
think the distress and inconvenience arising from Watfords poor investigation can be dealt 
with by it amending the CUE record and allowing the NCD. Mr L should be able to get a 
refund from his new insurer, and his future premiums should be unaffected. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to award further compensation. Even if Watfords investigation 
had been thorough, the outcome may have been the same. 
Mr L said Watford still hadnt changed the claims status in May 2022. As Watford told us in 
April 2022 that it had already done so, I can see why he wasnt happy about that. But when 
the investigator queried it, Watford said it had now carried out the proposals set out in his 
view. It looks as though there was a delay with that, but its not an issue I can address as 
part of this complaint, as the investigator has already explained. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr L to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman