DRN-2794560
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about how Nationwide Building Society handled his chargeback 
requests.  
What happened
Mr A entered into a finance agreement to acquire a used car in July 2020 and paid a deposit 
to the dealer as part of the transaction. He intended to use the car as a taxi which meant the 
car needed to meet a certain emissions standard. Mr A paid £130 to a company for a 
certificate confirming the car met the required standard. However, when Mr As car was 
checked by the relevant authority it found it didnt meet the required emissions standard. 
Mr A agreed with the dealer that the car could be returned, and he took out to a new 
agreement for a different car. However, the deposit Mr A paid wasnt part of the new 
agreement and wasnt refunded. 
Mr A raised a chargeback with Nationwide for both the £130 he paid for the emissions 
certificate and deposit payment. 
Nationwide says that Mr A raised disputes on two payments, one for £130 and one for 
£1,901. Regarding the payment of £130 it said it couldnt raise the chargeback as the 
merchants terms and conditions said that some readings on models may be incorrect. 
Regarding the payment of £1,901 it said it contacted the dealer to which the payment was 
made, and it confirmed the transaction was valid and that it was Mr As decision to cancel 
the transaction that this payment was part of. Nationwide accepted that Mr As complaint 
regarding this payment should have been logged earlier and offered to pay him £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr A didnt agree with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the chargebacks had a 
reasonable prospect of success. Therefore, she didnt think Nationwide was wrong not to 
pursue the chargebacks.
Our investigator noted Mr As comments about being discriminated against and said it wasnt 
within her power to say if there had been an act of discrimination. However, she considered 
whether Nationwide acted fairly and in lines with the with the terms and conditions of Mr As 
account and thought this had happened.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargebacks are the process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants under the relevant card scheme. In this case Mr A disputed two payments he had 
made using his Nationwide card. 
Mr A initially disputed a payment of £130 he made for an emission certificate for a car he 
had acquired. The certificate he was provided with had the wrong emissions rating which 
was discovered when the car was assessed to be used as a taxi. I understand why Mr A is 
upset by the issues with the certificate,, but I do not find that Nationwide did anything wrong 
in regard to the chargeback. Nationwide looked into the issue and based on the information 
it received, including the terms and conditions, it didnt think it had chargeback rights. Given 
the information I have seen I do not find this was an unreasonable outcome.
Mr A then disputed a payment of £1,901 he made to a dealer as a deposit as part of a 
finance agreement for the car. As the car didnt meet the requirement for a taxi in the region 
Mr A wished to work, he agreed with the dealer to return the car. While I can understand why 
Mr A is upset that the dealer didnt refund his deposit, I do not find that Nationwide did 
anything wrong in this case. It investigated the issue Mr A raised and was provided with 
evidence from the dealer which confirmed the transaction was valid and that Mr A had 
received the car he acquired and then it was Mr As decision to return the car. Given the 
circumstances in this case and that it was Mr As decision to return the car I do not find that I 
can say that Nationwide was wrong by not continuing with the chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is voluntary. In this case, the evidence received by Nationwide for 
the transactions Mr A disputed suggested there was little chance of the chargebacks being 
successful, therefore I do not find that Nationwide did anything wrong by not pursuing the 
chargebacks further. I note the comments Mr A has raised about how he was treated by 
Nationwide. However, having looked through the information provided I do not find I can say 
that Nationwide treated Mr A unfairly in dealing with the issues he had raised.
Overall, I understand that the issue with the car Mr A acquired not meeting the required 
emissions standard has caused him upset and inconvenience. However, this complaint is 
about Nationwide and its actions in dealing with Mr As chargebacks and in this case I do not 
find that I can say Nationwide did anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. Therefore, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman