DRN-2214034
The complaint
Ms A complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
her money she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Ms A between October 2012 and 
December 2013. 
Heres a table with more information about the loans: 
Loan Start Date Date Paid Amount
1 10/10/2012 30/09/2013 £300.00
2 29/10/2013 11/12/2013 £300.00
3 11/12/2013 20/12/2013 £600.00
4 30/12/2013 27/06/2014 £550.00
Ms A complained that these loans were unaffordable for her. She told us that she was rolling 
over loans (in other words, making reduced interest only payments) for a long period of time 
and she had outstanding debt with other lenders. 
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out checks in line with its 
responsible lending policies and regulatory guidelines and based on the information it 
gathered the lending was affordable for Ms A. 
It said Ms A had agreed to make an initial rollover payment when applying for loan 1 and this 
was part of the contractual agreement for that loan. And she then made two further rollover 
payments on loan 1 which was in line with past/current regulations and used for flexibility 
when repaying a loan.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loan 1 to Ms A, but explained why he thought that 
loans 2, 3 and 4 shouldnt have been lent. And our adjudicator set out the steps he believed 
Mr Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
Mr Lender mainly says that it is unsure why two loans in a year would indicate that Ms A was 
reliant on this sort of borrowing or that the rollover payments on loan 1 support an 
assumption that Ms A was struggling to repay the loan.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint.
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before lending. It asked Ms A to provide details of 
her income, checked her employment information and also carried out some checks on 
Ms As credit file. 
As it seems that Ms A hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold 
loan 1, I dont think I need to say any more about it  except to say that I agree with what our 
adjudicator said about this loan.
So I dont uphold Ms As complaint about loan 1  even though it turned out that she didnt 
make all the full contractual repayments shed originally signed up to on time.I accept that if a borrower opts to make interest only repayments this might not necessarily 
be an indication of financial difficulty.
But in this particular case, by the time she asked for loan 2, Id expect Mr Lender to have 
taken into account Ms As repayment record on loan 1 alongside the other information it 
could see. 
Mr Lender gave Ms A loan 2 barely a month after she repaid her first loan. This loan was for 
the same amount shed originally borrowed on loan 1  which had taken Ms A almost a year 
to repay although she had signed up to pay it back in 22 days. 
And I think that when Ms A asked to book an interest only payment during the application 
stage of loan 2, arranging upfront to make a planned interest only payment that was written 
in the loan agreement, this was a clear warning sign that Ms A was likely was having 
ongoing and serious problems managing her money.
The fact that rollovers were permitted under the loan agreement doesnt mean the loan was 
affordable for Ms A.
Taking into account all this information, I think a reasonable lender ought to have realised 
that her record of repeated rollovers on loan 1, coupled with her request to take out her next 
loan with a rollover planned at the start, most likely indicated that Ms A had money problems 
and shed found it difficult to afford to pay for the borrowing shed taken out. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude that it was likely Ms A would be 
able to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner. And Mr Lender 
shouldnt have provided loan 2, or any further lending, to Ms A. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms A told us she thinks that if Mr Lender had done proper checks before providing loan 1 it 
wouldve seen that she also couldnt afford this loan.
Mr Lender told us it had no further points but it disagreed with my assessment of this 
complaint. Mr Lender flagged up particular examples demonstrating where it took issue with 
what Id said. Heres a brief summary of the main points mentioned:
- Ms A contacted us to inform us that she was unable to repay the balance due to time off 
work sick. Prior to issuing loan 2 we carried out a workplace verification whereby it was 
confirmed that she was back in work, therefore her finances would resume back to normal. 
This was taken into consideration along with all information obtained during the application.
- If Ms A was in financial difficulty during the repayment of loan one, you would expect her to 
borrow on the same day for a higher amount. However, Ms A borrowed a month later and 
the loan amount did not decrease.
- Ms A opted to book an interest only payment during the application stage. This facility 
provides consumer with useful flexibility in repaying a loan and isnt a sign of financial 
difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to reassure Ms A that as part of my overall review of the complaint I did think about 
whether Id uphold her complaint about loan 1 when I was drafting my provisional decision. 
I agreed with our adjudicator about this loan. As this was her first loan with Mr Lender, at this 
early stage, Ms A didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Mr 
Lender to any underlying money problems. The information Mr Lender had gathered about 
Ms As finances suggested that she was able to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Ms A provided or the other information 
Mr Lender had recorded, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Ms A had declared. I think the checks it did were enough for Mr Lender to agree 
to lend. So I didnt uphold Ms As complaint about loan 1 and nothing shes said in response 
to my provisional decision makes me think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold 
her complaint about loan 1. I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive 
come to my view.
Mr Lender hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed all the points mentioned which had a bearing on the 
outcome. I appreciate that Mr Lender takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2, 3 and 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms A originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Pay Ms A the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Ms As credit file for loans 
2, 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right for Ms A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman