DRN-3453625
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money he lost when fell 
victim to an authorised push payment scam and was tricked into sending money to an 
account held at Barclays. 
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr O fell victim to a safe account scam. This involved Mr O being deceived by a 
fraudster into believing his account might be at risk, and that his own bank was instructing 
him to move his money to a new account to protect it.
In quick succession, he attempted three Faster Payments transfers from his own bank to an 
account held at Barclays. 
Mr Os own bank blocked the last payment he attempted to make, but the first two payments 
were transferred to the Barclays account. These two payments were for a total of £6,139.26. 
After the scam came to light, Mr O firstly reported the matter to his Bank. 
Barclays, once notified of the fraud, restricted the recipient account. It was able to recover 
£2490.60 from the account - but explains that this was all that remained by the time Mr O 
had reported the scam to his bank.
Mr Os bank and Barclays are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional 
protection for the victims of APP scams such as this. But it does not mean that all scam 
payments must be refunded.
In its capacity as the receiving bank here, Barclays didnt think it was liable to reimburse the 
remaining losses Mr O incurred  either in full or in part. 
Mr O brought his complaint about both his own bank and Barclays to our service. Mr Os 
complaint about his own bank (the sending firm) is considered in a separate final decision.
In the complaint here, Mr O says Barclays, as the Receiving Firm, is responsible (at least in 
part) for what happened and the loss he incurred. Mr O wants it to refund him the remaining 
loss because he suspects one of its accounts may have been opened and used fraudulently. 
He is unhappy that Barclays says it cannot share the full details of the actions it took when 
he told the bank that its customers account had been used to facilitate the scam he fell 
victim to.
Barclays, in its final response letter to Mr O, didnt agree that it was responsible for Mr Os 
losses. It said that it had acted promptly after being notified of the scam. But part of the 
funds Mr O had paid into the account were utilised by the account holder before Mr O had 
even informed his own Bank of the fraud. Barclays was unable to return more than remained 
at that point.
Barclays also explained that it had complied with regulatory requirements when opening and 
managing the receiving account. It had no way of knowing that an account holder would 
subsequently use an account for scams or fraudulent purposes. 
Barclays also advised that upon being made aware of inappropriate conduct on accounts, it 
investigates and takes the necessary steps to close an account down where applicable and 
recover any funds where possible. Barclays also said that it was unable to disclose the 
details of its scam investigation due to data protection laws and to avoid compromising any 
Police investigations. 
Mr O didnt accept this outcome. He asked our Investigator to review everything impartially 
to reassure him that Barclays had treated him fairly.
Our Investigator looked into things. She didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do 
anything further. Overall, she was satisfied Barclays had met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Mr Os losses  she didnt think it could 
reasonably have done more to prevent Mr Os loss. She was also satisfied Barclays had 
responded appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays  as the Receiving 
Bank for the account to which Mr O made payment. Mr Os complaint about his own bank 
has been considered separately in a final decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, but Im not upholding his complaint about Barclays. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, and hes now been left significantly out of pocket. But that 
was the result of the actions of the criminals who deceived him. It doesnt mean Barclays 
should necessarily bear responsibility for what happened.
Having reviewed everything in detail, I dont believe Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Barclays has met its 
requirements under the CRM Code (and otherwise) and therefore isnt liable for any of 
Mr Os remaining losses. Ill explain why. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, are required to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) 
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing 
of terrorism requirements. 
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse - Code 
of practice). 
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule. 
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Barclays has signed 
up to. The relevant requirements for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code (at the relevant 
time) include the following: 
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used 
to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures to prevent, detect 
and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. Where the receiving Firm identifies 
funds where there are concerns that they may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should 
freeze the funds and respond in a timely manner. 
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for criminal 
purposes. []
Detection 
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, 
used to receive APP scam funds. [] 
Response 
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving Firm, the 
receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best 
Practice Standards. [] 
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Barclays met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Barclays opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Barclays any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Barclays acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Os 
loss.  
I would like to explain to Mr O at this point, that while Barclays has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and Barclays has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any 
investigation and action Barclays subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr O, I 
have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.
Prevention - account openingTo help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the losses of an APP victim when 
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly 
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account. 
I appreciate Mr O has said he doesnt think Barclays has followed correct procedures as an 
account was opened and was subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. 
There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Barclays that the 
account it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So, Im satisfied Barclays has taken 
reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt 
miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Os loss when opening the account. 
Detection - account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as 
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Barclays as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr O made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Barclays might 
have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers 
payment instructions. 
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays has demonstrated that it has taken 
reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam 
funds. I also dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns to the extent I 
would have expected it to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented 
Mr Os loss in this way either. 
Response to notification of fraud 
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Barclays took the 
necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, only partial 
funds remained in the account that could be recovered  because almost all of the first 
payment Mr O sent had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account. 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Barclays responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Barclays didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr O was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Barclays met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Barclays couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Os money. And it responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think Barclays is 
liable to reimburse Mr O for his remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman