DRN-3879900
Complaint
Mr O has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr O with a loan for £5,000.00 in March 2022. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £270. One of our adjudicators reviewed what 
Mr O and Likely Loans had told us. And he thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Mr O unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint.
Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr O could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a 
customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Os application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr O could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr O has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr O and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Mr O has said that Likely Loans checks cant have been 
robust as it failed to pick up that he had a defaulted on existing credit accounts and had a 
county court judgement recorded against him. But Likely Loans has provided the output of 
Mr Os application. This information suggests that Mr O didnt disclose all of his previous 
addresses over the past three years. And as result of this Likely Loans didnt pick up 
adverse information recorded at Mr Os previous addresses. 
Given Mr O doesnt appear to have disclosed his address history as he was asked to during 
the course of his application and Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably hold Likely Loans responsible for this. 
In any event, even though I accept that Mr Os actual circumstances may not have been fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained, Im 
not persuaded that this makes a difference to the outcome here. I say this because even if I 
accept that Likely Loans checks ought to have gone into the depth Mr O appears to be 
saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  I dont think this would have 
made a difference to Likely Loans decision to lend. 
As far as I can see, there isnt anything in the bank statements Mr O has provided which 
obviously contradicts the information obtained at the time or more crucially which clearly 
shows that the loan payments were demonstrably unaffordable. 
I should also explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given all the circumstances here, I 
dont think that proportionate checks would have demonstrated that the loan was obviously 
unaffordable for Mr O. As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans unfairly lent to Mr O.
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr O unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman