DRN-4470770
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Moneybarn No.1 Limited terminated a conditional sale agreement 
he had with them.
Mr A has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Mrs A.  For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any action taken, by either Mr A or Mrs A as 
Mr A throughout the decision.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. He paid an advance payment of £151.39, and the agreement was for 
£17,848.61 over 57 months; with 56 monthly payments of £621.99.
Mr As income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and, in May 2020, 
Moneybarn agreed a three-month payment deferral, otherwise known as a payment holiday. 
However, Mr A wasnt able to resume full payments and his account went into arrears. This 
resulted in a default notice being issued in January 2021.
A number of different payment arrangements were set up, but these failed as Mr A wasnt 
able to maintain the agreed payments. And this resulted in further default notices being sent 
in May 2021, July 2021, and December 2022.
Mr A spoke to Moneybarn in January 2023 about a new payment arrangement, but 
Moneybarn said he needed to supply proof the car had a valid MOT before anything could 
be arranged. On 6 February 2023, another default notice was issued, alongside a 
termination notice. And Mr A was given until 15 February to provide proof of the MOT, 
complete an income and expenditure form, and make a payment towards the arrears.
The MOT took place on 11 February 2023 (although proof wasnt sent to Moneybarn) and, 
on 14 February 2023, Mr A contacted Moneybarn to explain hed been ill following an 
accident. He explained he was unhappy with the termination notice, but Moneybarn said 
their position remained the same. 
Moneybarn terminated the agreement on 20 February 2023 and advised Mr A what theyd 
done. In response, Mr A provided them with a copy of the MOT certificate and a completed 
income and expenditure form. However, Moneybarn didnt rescind the termination. The car 
remains in Mr As possession and its my understanding that he continues to use the car but 
hasnt made any payments since the termination came into effect. As the car has not been 
returned, I understand that Moneybarn have continued to charge interest on the outstanding 
balance, meaning the amount owed by Mr A continues to increase.
Mr A complained that theyd terminated the agreement while he was ill, and unable to 
comply with their request for information. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint, so he 
brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator thought that Moneybarn had acted reasonably. She said there was a history 
of missed payments on the account and, at the point the agreement was terminated, Mr A 
was £5,747.43 in arrears. She also said that the guidelines set down by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had been followed, and terminating the agreement 
stopped Mr As financial situation becoming worse.
With regards to the timing of the termination the investigator said that, although Moneybarn 
had incorrectly indicated in a call in January 2023 that the arrears could be added to the end 
of the agreement; theyd made it clear in February 2023 what Mr A needed to do to avoid 
termination, and when this needed to be done by. 
The investigator also said that, as Mr A was being represented in his complaint, it was 
reasonable for Mrs A to be able to provide Moneybarn with a copy of the MOT certificate, 
and details of the income and expenditure, before the deadline set by Moneybarn. So, she 
didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he hadnt missed a payment in months 
when the agreement was terminated and was able to increase payments from £200 to £800. 
He said the MOT was done late due to a national shortage of MOT slots, and this was the 
first available appointment. He didnt think it was acceptable that Moneybarn couldnt provide 
a copy of the call in January 2023, where he was told the arrears could be added to the end 
of the agreement, and he considered it was critical that we listened to this call.
Mr A also said that Moneybarn showed no interest in terminating the agreement until they 
were out of a negative equity situation, and that he should be allowed the opportunity to 
clear the arrears over the remaining 18-months of the agreement.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision, but he also contacted Moneybarn to 
say he would like to take this matter to court. As such, Moneybarn have started possession 
proceedings. We have asked for these proceedings to be stayed in order for this decision to 
be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The basic facts of this case arent disputed  Mr A fell into financial difficulties due to Covid-
19, which resulted in his agreement with Moneybarn going into arrears. Various payments 
arrangements were made, and most of these failed because Mr A wasnt able to maintain 
the agreed payments. However, the arrangement made in October 2022 was maintained. As 
with all such arrangements, they dont run indefinitely, and Moneybarn have an obligation to review Mr As financial circumstances on a regular basis to ensure that any payment 
arrangement is sustainable and doesnt cause any additional financial distress.
In addition to this, the FCAs guidelines require Moneybarn to treat customers in financial 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration, as well as allowing them to terminate an 
agreement when doing so will mitigate further adverse consequences for their customer. At 
the point of termination, Mr A was more than 9-months in arrears on an agreement that had 
around 18-months remaining on the original term.
When the last payment arrangement was set up, it was agreed that it would be reviewed in 
December 2022. This was the point Mr A said that his childcare financial commitment would 
be reduced, and he would be in a position to increase payments. Given this, Im satisfied 
that December 2022 was a reasonable review point. Mr A was required to contact 
Moneybarn in December 2022 but didnt do so. As such, another default notice was issued.
This default notice prompted a call from Mr A, which took place on 22 December 2022. Ive 
listened to this call and Mr A asked if the payment arrangement could continue, as the 
childcare payments didnt change until February 2023. Moneybarn said they would need to 
review the income and expenditure, and Mr A provided this information. However, as Mr A 
had only maintained two consecutive payments, and as the money Mr A was able to pay 
towards the arrears wouldnt clear the arrears balance within the remaining term of the 
agreement, Moneybarn couldnt renew the payment plan. And a 30-day hold on the account 
was agreed.
Mr A contacted Moneybarn again on 23 January 2023. Moneybarn havent been able to 
provide a copy of this call, and Mr A doesnt think its fair for a decision to be made without 
listening to this call. He says this because he was told on this call that he would be able to 
add the arrears to the end of the agreement. And he thinks its critical that we hear this. 
However, Moneybarn dont dispute this was the case, and they acknowledge telling Mr A 
this. Therefore, as this key piece of information isnt disputed, Im satisfied Im able to make 
a decision without listening to this call.
I also dont consider it reasonable for Mr A to rely solely on the information within this call 
about the arrears being added to the end of the agreement. I say this because, in the call of 
22 December 2022, it was explained that renewal of the existing payment arrangement 
would result in the arrears not being paid before the end of the agreement, which wasnt 
something Moneybarn could do  something Mr A acknowledged on this call. Also, calls and 
correspondence after the call of 23 January 2023 made the deadline for Mr A providing 
information clear, otherwise the agreement would be terminated. And any ability to add the 
arrears to the end of the agreement doesnt affect the fact that Mr A was still required to 
provide documentation, or that the agreement can still be terminated.
What also isnt disputed is that, on this call, Mr A was told that a new payment plan couldnt 
be arranged as the car no longer had a valid MOT certificate. With regards to the MOT itself, 
Ive noted Mr As comments about the difficulties of obtaining an MOT in early 2023. 
However, Ive also looked at the MOT history for the car. When the car was supplied to Mr A, 
it had an MOT that expired on 4 September 2020. However, the next MOT wasnt done until 
17 November 2020. Its my understanding that the rules put in place due to the national 
lockdowns during 2020 allowed for MOTs to be extended in certain circumstances.
The next MOT was due by 17 November 2021, but this wasnt done until 18 January 2022, 
some two months late. So, the MOT thats relevant to this complaint needed to be done by 
no later than 18 January 2023, and could be done anytime after 18 December 2022 while 
still preserving the original MOT date. So, when Mr A spoke to Moneybarn on 23 January 2023, and was advised that he would need to provide an MOT certificate when making a 
new payment arrangement, this document should already have been available.
Mr A has said there was a shortage of MOT slots, which caused the delay in the MOT being 
done. However, I think it highly unlikely that, knowing that the MOT expired on 18 January 
2023, and that its a legal requirement to have an MOT on a car of this age, that Mr A wasnt 
able to find any MOT test centre who were able to do an MOT before 11 February 2023.
Ive also noted that, under the terms he agreed with Moneybarn, Mr A had an obligation to 
maintain the car in good working order and condition. Which would include ensuring it 
always had a valid MOT certificate. So, the failure to ensure the car met this legal 
requirement (as was the case between 17 November 2021 and 18 January 2022) could be 
considered a breach of the agreement, which itself would allow Moneybarn to terminate the 
agreement, regardless of any arrears or other arrangements that may be in place.
Moneybarns case notes show they put matters on hold until 3 February 2023, to allow Mr A 
to provide the MOT certificate and a new income and expenditure document. When this 
wasnt provided, they issued a termination notice on 6 February 2023. Mr A contacted them 
following this and an extension to provide the MOT and income and expenditure was given 
to 15 February 2023. 
Mr A contacted Moneybarn again on 14 February 2023, to appeal against the termination of 
the agreement. At this stage the MOT had been done, so the certificate couldve been 
provided. Whats more, the income and expenditure document could also have been 
provided  Mr A did this during the call on 22 December 2022, so he wouldve known it was 
something that could be done during a conversation with Moneybarn.
Ive noted Mr As comments about him being ill following an accident around this time, so he 
was unable to provide the documents. However, Im not satisfied this was the case. For the 
reasons already given, Im not satisfied that the MOT due by no later than 18 January 2023 
(and where youd reasonably expect Mr A to have booked a test ahead of the MOT expiring) 
couldnt be done at any MOT test station (and an internet search shows more than 30 MOT 
test centres local to Mr As postcode area) before 11 February 2023. 
Im also not satisfied that Mrs A couldnt have provided Moneybarn with the MOT certificate, 
and updated them with the income and expenditure details, within the timeframe allowed. 
Especially as during this time she was able to contact Moneybarn to complain about the 
agreement being terminated.
As such, given the above, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for Moneybarn to 
terminate the agreement when they did, and I dont think they acted outside of the FCAs 
guidelines for dealing with customers in financial difficulties. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman