DRN-2951797
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the offer Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre) has provided in terms of a premium refund for his travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr P purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering him for holidays taken 
worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 13 December 2019, with the end date 
being 12 December 2020. The premium charged for the policy was £65.95. 
But, on 8 August 2020, Mr P contacted Mapfre. Because of the coronavirus pandemic  and 
its impact on travel  he requested that Mapfre cancel his insurance policy and provide him 
with a refund for the unused part of it.
Initially Mapfre said that because Mr Ps policy had been running for more than six months, it 
wasnt able to provide him with any form of refund. So, Mr P expressed his dissatisfaction 
with this. He said he hadnt been able to use his travel insurance policy since mid-March 
2020  because of the pandemic. And he wouldnt be able to do so before the policy ended 
in December 2020. Given this was most of the time the policy was running for, he thought he 
should receive a refund of the premium paid for mid-March to the policy end date.
Mapfre didnt agree. It noted it had initially been correct to tell Mr P he wasnt due any refund 
under the policy  highlighting that the terms and conditions of the cover said that no refund 
would be provided for cancellation, if the 14-day cooling-off period had elapsed when the 
policy was cancelled. And, it said that Mr P still had cancellation cover under the policy he 
could benefit from. 
However, Mapfre said that as a gesture of goodwill  it would offer Mr P a pro-rata refund, 
from 10 August 2020 to the end date of the policy, 12 December 2020. 
Mr P remained in disagreement with this. He said that Mapfre wasnt treating him fairly or 
providing value for money as it should do. Because he remained unhappy, he asked this 
service to complete an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of 
this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the 
insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 13 December 2019 
and the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled.
 
However, the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint was for Mapfre to provide Mr P with a pro-rata refund, calculated based on the 
remaining premium from the date Mr P first requested cancellation of the policy on 
8 August 2020, which was when Mr P actually cancelled his policy, to the end date of the 
policy on 12 December 2021.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the pro-rata refund should start from mid-March 2020 when the 
UK government restrictions on leaving the home were imposed  until the end of the policy.  
And he questioned what cover Mapfre were actually providing between March 2020 and the 
date he cancelled his policy. Mr P also reiterated his concerns that Mapfre werent acting 
fairly or providing value for money during the pandemic.
When asked Mapfre said it had meant to explain the pro-rata refund would start from 
8 August 2020, rather than the 10 August 2020 that it detailed in its response to Mr P. It said 
the error had been a typing mistake.
Because Mr P remained unhappy, his complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 days of 
receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel after 14 days of 
receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim before 
you asked to cancel the policy, Asda Travel Insurance may only refund part of the premium.
In line with the conditions above, they will refund all of the premiums you have paid within 30 
days of the date you write to cancel the policy.
Im upholding this complaint in part because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines, or Mr Ps insurance policy, for the insurer to offer 
a refund to Mr P.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Mapfres offer is now fair and reasonable.
Mr P was insured from 13 December 2019, when policy started, until he cancelled it, on 
8 August 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips he took, up to 45 days in duration. 
At this point, whether Mr P went on any trips or not, Mapfre were covering the risk of a claim 
occurring, for example if Mr P had needed to make a claim for holiday cancellation under his policy. And the premiums charged to Mr P reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable that Mapfre hasnt offered a refund for any part of this period of cover.
Mr P contacted Mapfre to cancel his policy on 8 August 2020 (rather than 10 August 2020 
noted in Mapfres complaint response). Because of the coronavirus pandemic, Mr P was no 
longer travelling, and he hadnt made any claim under his insurance policy either. So, Mapfre 
were no longer insuring any risk under the policy from that point. 
As Mapfre were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that point  and as the 
circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think it is fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to provide Mr P with a full pro-rata refund of the base premium, and 
any additional cover options he purchased, from 8 August 2020 (rather than 10 August 
2020), to the policy end date of 12 December 2020. And Mapfre has agreed to this.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about the lockdown which started in March 2020. 
But it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that as Mapfre had borne risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. Mr P had the benefit of the policy 
between December 2019 and August 2020. So, its not unreasonable for Mapfre to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. That means I think its fair for 
Mapfre to calculate the pro-rata refund from 8 August 2020. 
My final decision
In light of the above, I uphold this complaint to the extent Ive outlined above and require 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to provide Mr P 
with a full pro-rata refund of the base premium, and any additional cover options he 
purchased, from 8 August 2020, to the policy end date of 12 December 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman