DRN-1905414
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
provided him with incorrect information about the terms on which the voluntary termination of 
his finance agreement would be completed. He wants compensation for the consequential 
loss he states he incurred.
What happened
Mr P tells us that in October 2019 he was looking to change vehicles. He said his existing 
vehicle - which Ill refer to as vehicle A - was acquired from a dealer, Ill call S. And had 
been financed through a conditional sale agreement with Santander from 2017.  He explains 
that this agreement had been modified and the term extended until March 2020. Mr P says 
he contacted Santander about the possibility of voluntarily terminating (VT) the agreement 
on vehicle A. And that he was informed that he could VT the existing conditional sale 
agreement without further cost. As a result of this assurance he says he entered into a new 
conditional sale agreement with Santander for another vehicle which Ill refer to as vehicle B.
 
Mr P states that a couple of days later when he phoned to make arrangements, he was told 
that Santander refused to accept the VT for the first agreement. And that hed need to pay 
over £17,000 to settle this agreement. Mr P says this left him having two finance agreements 
in force at the same time. He said he tried to keep up with payments on both vehicles but 
found he wasnt able to afford to do so. The monthly payments being more than £1,100 per 
month combined. As a consequence, he said he had to sell the first vehicle. And that he had 
to settle the agreement with Santander at a cost of £11,207.46.
Santander accepted that Mr P had been given incorrect information when hed enquired in 
October 2019 about the possibility of a VT for the first vehicle. But it said that the agreement 
had been modified previously and the term extended. And at the time of the modification it 
said that Mr P had been told he wouldnt able to VT the agreement. It felt he should have 
been aware of this. Santander stated it had offered £400 compensation to Mr P.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that if Mr P had 
been told hed have to pay in excess of £17,000 to settle the finance on vehicle A, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the deal for vehicle B. He thought Santander should put right 
its mistake. He said the difference between the proceeds of sale which Mr P had obtained, 
and the outstanding settlement figure had been £11,207.46. He thought this should be 
refunded to Mr P together with monthly payments made after October 2019.
Santander didnt accept this outcome. It said it shouldnt have to bear the loss as Mr P had 
sold the vehicle for well below market value. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P would be disappointed and concerned that Santander had gone 
back on the earlier assurance hed been given in relation to the VT of the agreement relating 
to vehicle A. This left him in financial difficulties with two finance agreements and monthly 
payments totalling over £1,100 to make.
Theres no factual dispute about the circumstances which led to this complaint. On 25 
October 2019 Mr P attended S premises. Whilst there, he rang Santander and enquired 
about the VT of the agreement on vehicle A. He was advised that it could be terminated 
without further liability as hed paid more than 50% of the finance agreement.
Later that day he signed an order form for vehicle B. And on 27 October he signed the 
finance agreement for this replacement vehicle. The following day he learned that Santander 
was seeking to charge him around £17,000 to settle the finance on vehicle A.
Mr Ps complaint is that he was misled as to the terms on which the finance agreement on 
vehicle A would be settled. And that this later led to him incurring a loss as he was unable to 
afford to keep up the payments on both vehicles. The major area of difference between the 
parties is the level of compensation that should result from the circumstances.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive given some thought as to the best way this complaint should be approached.  Clearly, 
Santander provided incorrect information upon which Mr P acted to his detriment. And whilst 
it had earlier provided Mr P with information to the effect that if he extended the agreement, 
he wouldnt be able to VT it in the future, I dont think that changes things.
That information was supplied at the time of the extension several months previously. And 
during Mr Ps phone call on 25 October he specifically checked if he was able to VT or if he 
had to see the agreement through to March 2020. I think its reasonable that he relied on the 
most recent information that he was given and accepted that the situation had changed. 
Particularly as he was funding the replacement vehicle by entering into a new finance 
agreement with Santander.
Ive also considered the issues of whether the finance agreement for vehicle B was made 
irresponsibly or was unaffordable.
As Mr P was financing vehicle B with Santander, Ive asked it to supply details of the finance 
checks it undertook before approving the finance for vehicle B. Ive not been supplied with 
this information. I infer that if checks were carried out, they were not based on Mr P having 
both agreements in force for beyond the time it took to complete the VT arrangements. This 
is usually a month or so. Had such checks been carried out its probable they wouldve 
revealed the potential affordability issue. And that mightve prevented the agreement for 
vehicle B being incepted. I conclude the loan was probably made without adequate checks 
being carried out.  Mr P has also supplied information from his bank statements which 
suggests that paying the two loans was probably unsustainable and unaffordable.Ive considered whether the finance agreement for vehicle B was misrepresented. 
A misrepresentation is false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and incur a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. As part of the negotiations 
before acquiring vehicle B, Mr P was given a false statement of facts relating to the terms of 
VT of finance on vehicle A. And he wouldnt have entered the finance agreement relating to 
vehicle B if this hadnt occurred. In my opinion its probable the finance agreement for 
vehicle B was misrepresented.
Having considered the various options, I think it boils down to the same result. Mr P wouldnt 
have suffered any financial loss if hed not been told he could VT vehicle A without further 
cost. I think its fair and reasonable for him to be put back as far as is possible to the position 
hed have been in had he been given the correct information. Its not possible to bring about 
that exact situation as it would involve him retaining vehicle A  which has been sold - and 
the arrangement with vehicle B being unwound. So an alternative option has to be found.
Santander had the chance to put things right at an early stage and to mitigate the effects of 
its mistake. Why it chose not to do so Im unable to say. Once the issue with the VT had 
been identified it ought to have been possible  given that S was the dealer and credit 
intermediary for both agreements - for the second agreement to be unwound at much 
reduced cost. But that chance was lost.
Following Santanders refusal to agree the VT of vehicle A, Mr P was left in the unenviable 
situation of having to try and maintain both agreements or risk a default. He kept up 
payments but by January 2020 had found it was becoming increasingly unaffordable.
.
Santander has said that it doesnt think it should bear the loss which arose from Mr P selling 
vehicle A at below market value. Given its failure to offer any meaningful assistance to Mr P 
in the light of its error I find that response disappointing.
My remit is to resolve the complaint upon the basis of what I determine to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Its hard to see what more Mr P couldve done to avoid 
the situation that befell him. Before entering the agreement for vehicle B, he checked with 
Santander to see if he could VT vehicle A. Ive listened to a recording of the relevant phone 
call. Mr P was informed that as hed paid at least 50 % of the agreement he could VT without 
further liability. In my opinion he was entitled to rely on that assurance.
In summary, I find that Santander inadvertently but negligently misled Mr P into believing he 
could VT his existing finance agreement without further liability. This in turn led to the finance 
agreement on vehicle B being misrepresented. The consequence of this was that Mr P was 
unable to afford the continuing payments on both agreements.
Im satisfied he tried to mitigate his loss by seeking the assistance of Santander. And then 
seeking a private sale. When these steps failed, it was fair and reasonable of him to try and 
alleviate his financial difficulties by selling vehicle A. 
This resulted in him having to pay £11,207.46 to settle the agreement with Santander. If Mr 
P had been given the correct information, he wouldnt have had to make that payment to 
Santander. And wouldnt have incurred the loss. Nor would that amount of loss have 
occurred if Santander had offered Mr P some assistance once the error had been 
discovered. It had ample opportunity to seek a fair resolution within a day of the agreement 
on vehicle B being signed. Accordingly, Im upholding this complaint.I think it fair and reasonable that Santander should cover the loss and refund the amount to 
Mr P. It should also refund any payments made on the first agreement which relate to any 
period after 27 October when the second finance agreement was incepted.
Putting things right
Santander should now take the following action in full and final settlement of this complaint.
1. Refund Mr P £11,207.46 being the difference between the proceeds of sale and 
settlement figure for vehicle A; 
2. Refund all payments made by Mr P for any period accruing in relation to the finance 
agreement on vehicle A after 27 October 2019;
3. Pay £100 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience;
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums arising from 1 and 2 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance to take the 
action Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman