DRN-2974176
The complaint
Mr R and Miss S say Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr R and Miss S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. Mr R and Miss S paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. The policy covered Mr R in 
case of accidents, illnesses, and unemployment.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that Zurich were not covered by 
our compulsory jurisdiction at the time Mr R and Miss Ss policy was sold.  But Zurich was a 
member of the Mortgage Code Compliance Board at the time. And so any complaints made 
about the sale of the PPI couldve been made to the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme 
(MCAS). Our rules allow us to investigate some complaints which MCAS previously could 
have considered. But we can only look into the complaint in the same way that MCAS would 
have done.
Based on the available evidence, our adjudicator found they couldnt uphold the complaint 
on the limited basis which wouldve been covered by MCAS. Mr R and Miss S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr R and Miss S  and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint them  I have not found a basis on which I can uphold their complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Selling insurance only became something we covered in its own right in January 2005. We 
can look at some complaints about insurance from before that date, but only if the complaint 
related to something we already covered, or if the business was a member of a former 
complaint scheme.
Zurich was a member of a former scheme  the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme 
(MCAS). So we can look into this complaint, but only in the same way MCAS could. So I can 
only consider the points that MCAS couldve considered. And MCAS could only have looked 
at whether the Mortgage Code was breached here, or not. The Mortgage Code mainly 
focused on mortgage advice and good lending practice, rather than selling insurance. Only a 
small part of the Mortgage Code related to insurance. So it placed very limited obligations on 
firms selling PPI alongside a mortgage. Essentially, there were only four specific obligations, 
which were, in summary:
To give a description of the insurance available;
To say whether the PPI was a condition of the mortgage;
To say whether it was a condition of the mortgage that the PPI had to be arranged by 
that firm; and
To give a general description of the cost of the PPI.
Because Im limited to the four points above, it means I can only consider the elements of 
Mr R and Miss Ss complaint regarding whether they were given a choice about buying PPI 
or not, and whether they were told about the general cost of the PPI or not.
I understand Mr R and Miss S have made other points  for example, they argue that they 
were ineligible for the cover and that it was not suitable for them as Mr R was self-employed 
and Miss S was not working at the time. But Im afraid I cannot consider such points, as they 
do not fall under the four points I listed above. With that said, I will note that they only paid 
for cover for Mr R  not Miss S. And this particular policy did cover self-employed people.
Because of all the time thats passed, Mr R and Miss Ss original PPI application isnt still 
available. But Ive looked at a sample copy of the paperwork they wouldve used at the time 
of their sale. From what Ive seen, it looks like PPI would have been set out as something 
that was generally recommended  and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. 
In order to get their policy, it looks like Mr R and Miss S would need to have specifically 
applied for it and signed for it, separately to signing for the mortgage itself. And they would 
need to have set up a separate direct debit specifically to pay for the PPI  it was not part 
and parcel of the mortgage or a hidden cost, and I think it would have been clear what they 
were signing up for.
Mr R and Miss Ss mortgage offer recorded that theyd chosen to take out PPI. And it was 
not a compulsory condition of their mortgage. They were then sent a welcome letter setting 
out the cover theyd chosen. Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process from 
the time, nor anything which shows that Zurich misled Mr R or Miss S into buying PPI here. 
So based on the evidence Ive got, I think its most likely that Zurich made Mr R and Miss S 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Ive also considered whether its likely that Mr R and Miss S were given a general description 
of the costs involved. It looks like they set up a separate direct debit specifically to pay for 
the PPI, which needed their bank details and signatures. So it seems likely that a discussion 
wouldve taken place about the cost of the PPI when they agreed to pay it. And I can see 
that Mr R and Miss S were sent a letter which confirmed the exact cost of the policy. So 
I think its most likely that the general costs involved were made sufficiently clear to Mr R and 
Miss S.
So having carefully considered the available information and evidence, Im not persuaded 
that a breach of the Mortgage Code took place here. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr R and Miss Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman