DRN-2131266
The complaint
Mr D says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr D had three instalment loans from Satsuma in 2019: a £500 loan in April, a £1,400 loan in 
May and a £100 loan in November.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr D didnt 
accept the adjudicators view, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive considered the information Mr D provided to Satsuma before it lent to him. For each of 
the three loans Mr D told Satsuma his monthly net income was approximately £3,300. Mr S 
also provided some information about his expenditure  which included that he had housing 
costs of £242 per month, financial commitments of £500 per month and other expenditure 
of £600 per month. I accept the expenditure information requested by Satsuma seems far 
from comprehensive, but the information Mr D provided suggested he had monthly 
disposable income in the region of £2,000.
Satsuma made some minor adjustments to the expenditure information Mr D provided for 
the April and May loans (adding a bit over £100) and a more significant adjustment for the 
November loan, adding around £750 to the financial commitments figure provided. Even 
having made this significant adjustment, Satsuma still estimated Mr Ds disposable income 
to be over £1,200 per month.
I think Satsuma acted reasonably by both taking into account the information provided by 
Mr D and also making adjustments to that information. The information he provided 
suggested the monthly repayments for the loans were affordable and even with significant 
adjustments this remained the case. I appreciate that Mr D took out the first two loans in 
relatively quick succession but I dont think this, on its own, means Satsuma was wrong to 
have provided them.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr D but for the reasons given above I am not 
upholding his complaint.  
  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman