DRN-3306225
The complaint
Mr A on behalf of business C has complained about the way a broker, Nash Warren
Insurance Services Ltd sold and cancelled a motor trade insurance policy on behalf of the
insurer.
C has raised a separate complaint against the insurer.
What happened
C bought a motor trade insurance policy through a broker, Nash Warren on 31 July 2019.
He complained that he felt pressurised into buying the policy by Nash Warren. C said the
policy was cancelled within the first two weeks and so within the cooling off period, but he
received only around 10% back of what he paid for ten months premiums. C was unhappy
with how long it took to receive a refund.
In September 2019 Nash Warren replied to Cs complaint. It said it didnt apply any hard
selling sales techniques when it sold the policy to him.
Nash Warren explained that the reason why the policy was cancelled was because C hadnt
provided satisfactory proof of trading for the insurer. After issuing a cancellation notice, C
provided some evidence which Nash Warren forwarded to the insurer, but it didnt accept it.
And so the cancellation of the policy went ahead on 28 August 2019.
Nash Warren said the insurer was in receipt of the premium and so it would take 30-40 days
to provide a refund as it had previously explained. At the time of replying to C on 27
September 2019, Nash Warren was in receipt of the refund and said a cheque would be
forwarded to C within the next three working days.
C remained unhappy and so he asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator explained that she could only look at the charges and actions of Nash
Warren and that the actions and charges set by the insurer were separate.
Although C had a query about how many years NCB had been set under the policy, the
investigator explained that this didnt make any difference to the outcome  as the reason for
his complaint and for the cancellation related to evidence of proof of trading.
Our investigator asked Nash Warren if it had a recording of the sales call  but it said it
didnt. So in its absence, the investigator couldnt say it had adopted any sharp practices in
pushing C to buy a policy.
She found that the charges that had been deducted on cancellation by Nash Warren were as
set out under its Terms of Business.
Nash Warren offered to reduce its cancellation fee from £145.69 to £50. The investigator
thought this was reasonable, but had concerns about a discussion between C and Nash
Warren on 20 August 2019  where Nash Warren asked C to pay the instalment due the
following day when  in her view  it seemed unlikely the insurer would accept Cs proof of
trading. She found Nash Warren had offered to C to revoke the cancellation notice  but that
another notice would be issued the next day.
She thought Nash Warren could have done more by asking the insurer to extend the first
notice of cancellation until the proof of trading issue had been resolved. She thought this
delayed the refund in premium to C. So to resolve the complaint, the investigator
recommended Nash Warren waive a mid-term adjustment fee it charged of £30  in addition
to the reduction in the cancellation fee to £50.
Nash Warren accepted the investigators findings. It explained that C had told it he could
provide the required evidence of proof of trading on 20 August 2019 to prevent the
cancellation. So Nash Warren reasonably believed the insurer would most likely have
accepted the further proof and the policy would have continued.
It said if C had advised at that point that he wasnt able to provide the further proof
requested, Nash Warren wouldnt have collected the next instalment and the policy would
have been cancelled.
This service has dealt with Cs separate complaint against the insurer.
In July 2021 C said he thought Nash Warren should award £200 compensation for the
inconvenience it caused. In summary he remains unhappy with the way Nash Warren
handled the cancellation of his policy, He says it wasnt his choice to cancel the policy and in
his view it was cancelled within the cooling off period. He says Nash Warren didnt send the
required documents to the insurer in time.
Nash Warren asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2022. I thought it was reasonable for Nash 
Warren to charge the mid-term adjustment fee of £30 and so didnt intend to ask it to waive 
it. But I didnt think it had clearly set out an arrangement fee of £125 until after C had bought 
the policy as it wasnt included in its Terms of Business. So I provisionally decided Nash 
Warren should refund the arrangement fee of £125 to C. 
C accepted my provisional decision. Nash Warren accepted my provisional decision but said 
it had already refunded the mid-term fee of £30. So it asked if it could refund £95 instead of 
£125 to C. We asked for evidence to show this. Having provided its response, we explained 
to Nash Warren that the amount of refunded fees didnt show it had already refunded the 
£30 fee. Nash Warren hasnt provided any further comments.
So as both parties have replied to my provisional decision, the case has been passed back 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C bought the policy to start on 1 August 2019. The insurer contacted Nash Warren on 13
August 2019 to ask for further evidence. On 14 August 2019 Nash Warren wrote to C to
explain that the insurer required proof of motor trading. It wrote that C needed to provide this
documentation within 14 days  so no later than 28 August 2019.On 21 August 2019 the insurer wrote to C to give him seven days notice of cancellation due
to the failure to provide satisfactory proof of trading.
On 23 August 2019 Nash Warren wrote to C to provide a copy of the seven day cancellation
notice from the insurer.
On 27 August 2019 C provided his evidence of trading to Nash Warren by email. From what
I can see, on the cancellation date of 28 August 2019, Nash Warren emailed the insurer and
explained the circumstances under which C trades. The insurer responded that  as per its
stance from 27 August 2019 - the cancellation notice is irrevocable.
I understand there has been some confusion over whether the insurer would have accepted
Cs proof of trading if it had received revised information from C. The insurer said that Nash
Warren sent Cs proof of trading to the incorrect address. However from what Ive seen, this
didnt make any difference as the insurers decision would have remained  even if it had
been received  as it wasnt acceptable proof. I therefore dont think Nash Warren  as the
broker - acted unreasonably in arranging the cancellation of the policy on behalf of the
insurer. And I havent seen evidence to show that Cs policy should have been cancelled
within the cooling off period. I think it was correctly cancelled in line with the cancellation
notice given  and due to the insurer not accepting proof of trading provided by C.
As C is a commercial customer, I cannot consider an award for compensation for any
distress Nash Warren may have caused him. But I can consider if the actions of Nash
Warren caused business C inconvenience. I dont think compensation for inconvenience is
due in this case as I think the broker correctly followed the cancellation process.
C is unhappy with the refund amount he received on cancellation. Ive looked at the fees
Nash Warren charged C and how they were explained to him before he bought the policy.
I think Warren Nash clearly set out most of its fees under its Terms of Business  but I
cannot see that it set out its arrangement fee of £125 until after C paid it by way of a receipt.
Warren Nash has provided wording it gives to customers to say it may charge an
arrangement fee and that the fee amount is variable. But I dont think this is enough to show
that C was clearly made aware of the arrangement fee  in addition to the other fees - before
he bought the policy to enable him to make an informed decision.
I think Nash Warren should have more clearly set out its arrangement fee of £125 along with
the other fees under its Terms of Business. So that C was aware that it would not be
refunded on cancellation as it is a significant sum. For this reason I dont think its fair for
Nash Warren to have charged C this sum on cancellation.
Nash Warren says C didnt complain about the arrangement fee. But he included his
concerns about the refund he received in his complaint to us. Ive considered this part of Cs
complaint within our inquisitorial remit as C is unhappy about the cancellation and the
consequences of it in the refund he received. So I think the fairest outcome is for Nash
Warren to waive its arrangement fee of £125 and provide a refund of this amount with
interest to C.
Nash Warrens terms of business show it will charge C a cancellation fee of £145.69 and a
mid-term adjustment fee for a reduction in NCB of £30.
But its agreed to reduce its cancellation fee to £50. Our investigator thought it should also
waive its mid-term adjustment fee of £30. I dont think the outcome would have been
different if Nash Warren had asked the insurer to extend the cancellation process. This wasa request which I think the insurer was unlikely to have agreed to. And as Ive said, the
insurer didnt revoke the cancellation and didnt accept the proof of trading provided - so the
policy would have cancelled anyway.
So I think Nash Warrens decision to reduce its cancellation fee from £145.69 to £50 is fair
and reasonable. But I dont think it needs to waive its mid-term adjustment fee of £30 for the
reduction in NCB. This means C is paying the same cancellation fee he would otherwise
have paid had his policy been cancelled within the cooling off period.
In response to my provisional decision, Nash Warren said it had already refunded the £30 
mid-term adjustment fee. On 24 January 2022 Nash Warren said the cancellation fee it 
refunded was £95.70 plus the £30 fee totalling £125.70. However, we explained that on 2 
August 2020 Nash Warren said it had charged an arrangement fee of £125, a mid-term 
adjustment fee of £30 plus a cancellation fee of £145.69.
So based on this information, I dont think Nash Warren has shown the £30 mid-term 
adjustment fee was included in the reduction of the cancellation fee which was £145.69 and 
not £95.70.
I dont think Nash Warren caused undue delay in providing a refund to C as this was
provided within the timeframe given and within the control of the insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Nash Warren Insurance Services Limited to refund the arrangement fee of £125 to C 
on cancellation in the absence of clear evidence this fee was set out to C before he bought 
the policy.
Nash Warren Insurance Services Limited should pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of cancellation to the date it pays C.
Nash Warren Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Nash Warren Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell C how much its taken off. It 
should also give C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022 
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman