DRN-4056041
The complaint
Mr T complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and 
withheld the funds. He also says the transactions on the account werent carried out by him. 
Hed like the funds returned to him.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
Mr T had a Pockit account, which he used to receive his DWP benefit payments. In total 
three benefit payments were received over three days between 18 May 2020 and 20 May 
2020. There were only four payments out of the account, three to a merchant and one ATM 
withdrawal. This left £214.98 in the account.
In May 2020 Pockit blocked Mr Ts account and asked him to provide proof of entitlement to 
the benefit funds paid in. He responded with some documents to explain he had recently 
been in a very difficult situation where hed been kept against his will and forced to hand 
over his payment details  and provided evidence from the police supporting his story. He 
said he had been trying to reach Pockit but couldnt get in touch. 
Pockit reviewed Mr Ts documents but werent satisfied with them. They didnt review the 
payments that left the account. They continued to restrict the account.
Mr T raised a complaint, but Pockit responded to say they did not do anything wrong. They 
said the terms of the account allowed them to restrict it at any time while a review is carried 
out. And its not possible to provide a timeframe for a review to be completed. 
Unhappy with this answer Mr T referred the complaint to our service. In September 2021, 
before it was looked at by one of our investigators, Pockit closed the account and returned 
the £214.98 to the DWP.
On review our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He accepted that Pockit have 
a right to review accounts, as part of their legal and regulatory obligations. However, he 
hadnt seen anything from Pockit to justify why Mr Ts account had been placed under 
review. On that basis he couldnt conclude this decision had been fair. He accepted this 
would have been inconvenient for Mr T during a particularly difficult period. He suggested 
Pockit refund the remaining money in the account, including 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of the block to the date of settlement. He also suggested Pockit pay Mr T £200 
compensation.
Mr T agreed to this. Pockit asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman but provided 
some further information for the investigator to review. The investigator asked further 
information about the disputed transactions  and why no review was carried out. Pockit 
responded to say there were no dispute criteria, and if the perpetrators were known to Mr T 
he should contact the police and take them to court.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was been passed to me to decide. Having 
reviewed the evidence I issued a provisional decision which said:
Pockit have provided our service with limited information around Mr Ts complaint. So, where 
the evidence is unclear, or simply unavailable, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened.
Account blocks and closure
Its right to say that Pockit, as a regulated financial business, have certain legal and 
regulatory obligations when providing accounts to their customers. And these obligations can 
mean they need to know more about where money they hold has come from. In this case, 
its not inherently unfair that Pockit asked Mr T for further information about the benefits he 
was receiving. The terms of his account permit them to do this, and to block the account 
while they do. 
Pockit felt that Mr T hadnt provided enough information to show that he was entitled to the 
funds paid in. But Ive reviewed the same information, which explains what benefit payments 
he will be receiving, and how much. These match the payments he received. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest there were any other parties contacting Pockit with their own concerns. 
Pockit havent been able to justify why they continued to block access to these funds after 
this point. So, Im satisfied that Mr T has shown his entitlement to the funds.
The review took over a year before Pockit took the decision to close the account and return 
the remaining funds, which is considerably longer than Id expect them to take. They havent 
offered any explanation of why this took so long to complete  and I dont consider this to be 
treating Mr T fairly or reasonably. I can understand why he would be frustrated and upset by 
this.
Ive also considered that Pockit returned the remaining funds to the DWP when they closed 
the account  although Ive seen nothing to suggest the DWP asked for or expected them to 
be returned. The terms of the account say that funds paid in by mistake may be returned. 
But Pockit havent shown that the original payments in were a mistake, or in error. The terms 
also say that upon closure of the account they reserve the right to return any funds held in 
your account either back to the senders of the payments or to the Account Holder. 
In this case I havent seen anything from Pockit to explain why the fairer option was to return 
the funds to source, rather than to Mr T directly. Its also clear they didnt give him any 
information about how to reclaim these funds with the DWP and considering the time thats 
passed this seems unlikely now. On that basis, I think it reasonable that Pockit return these 
funds to him.
The transactions
Mr T has said that he didnt make the transactions on the account himself. He says they 
came about after he was kidnapped and threatened in to giving over his payment details. 
Hes supplied information from a police investigation to confirm that this is the case. Hes 
been consistent since first reporting this to Pockit, and I accept what he says is largely true.
Pockit have commented that there are no dispute criteria for this, and Mr T could pursue the 
perpetrators through court. This may well be true, but this doesnt extinguish any of Pockits 
responsibilities under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and as a Payment 
Services Provider (PSP)  particularly those covering unauthorised payment transactions.In general, payments a consumer has agreed to are considered authorised payments, and 
those done without their consent are considered unauthorised. And generally, consumers 
are liable for authorised payments, and PSPs are liable for unauthorised transactions. 
Although there are also caveats.
In this case Mr T is alleging that the payments were unauthorised, and the evidence hes 
provided from the police does strongly suggest this is the case. It doesnt appear Pockit have 
carried out any investigation into these payments or been able to provide any information to 
our service on how they were authorised. This is despite Mr T making it very clear in phone 
calls and messages he had with them, that he didnt make these transactions. I consider that 
Pockit have had abundant time to investigate these transactions and have chosen not to do 
so. So, I feel satisfied that I can consider them as part of Mr Ts complaint.
The three payments out to the clothing merchant, I believe were likely carried out online  
this is based on the fact they seem to have gone through a third-party payment processor, 
and from the information given by Pockit there were originally in USD. As they were made 
online, and not physically present with the merchant, they can be considered Distance 
Contracts. Section 77 of the PSRs explains that a payer is not liable for any losses in 
respect to unauthorised payments in relation to a distance contract. Im satisfied that Mr T 
didnt authorise these payments, so as per the PSRs these should be refunded to him.
The last transaction was an ATM withdrawal  which will have required the physical card and 
PIN to carry out. The PSRs say that a PSP can hold a consumer liable if they have 
intentionally not met their obligations to keep their security details safe. In this case Mr T has 
admitted he gave out his PIN  albeit under significant duress. 
But I also note that the day before the ATM withdrawal Mr T had emailed Pockit to say that 
he had been beaten, kidnapped and robbed  and was on his way to the custody care unit. 
These emails make it clear that that the card should be blocked. I can also see he received 
an acknowledgement email. Im satisfied Mr T had notified Pockit of loss of the payment 
instrument  as per Section 72 of the PSRs  and as such should not be held liable for any 
losses after this point.
 
Customer service
As Ive noted above, I accept this was a particularly stressful and upsetting time for Mr T. 
And the response from Pockit was significantly below what Id expect to see. From the outset 
Mr T was open about what had happened to him, and how hed been attacked and beaten. 
But the responses from Pockit are almost completely devoid of any sympathy. 
For example, the agent continually requests information from Mr T about the DWP payments 
with short deadlines, without acknowledging Mr T had recently been the victim of a serious 
crime. The agent then goes on to question why Mr T was spending so much on clothes, 
when hed already explained he didnt make the transactions in question. The agent ignores 
Mr T repeatedly. I can see why Mr T would be upset by the help given, and the nature of the 
questions. 
There is also no attempt made to investigate the transactions Mr T is disputing, or to 
consider any of the evidence he submits. Overall, Im minded that Pockit treated Mr T very 
unreasonably, and will have significantly increased the distress and inconvenience faced by 
him after being the victim of a violent crime. On that basis Im satisfied they should pay him a 
considerable amount of compensation.
I was minded that to resolve the situation Pockit should:Refund Mr T the £214.98 in the account when it was blocked  plus 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the block until the date of settlement.
Refund Mr T the unauthorised transactions totaling £995.60  plus 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr T £500 compensation for the distress caused by their poor customer service
Mr T responded to accept the provisional decision. Pockit did not provide a response. It falls 
on me now to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new information to consider, I remain satisfied with the findings in the 
provisional decision.
It was reasonable for Pockit to block Mr Ts account while they investigated his entitlement to 
the funds paid in  this is in line with their legal and regulatory requirements, and their own 
terms. But Im satisfied Mr T has provided enough information to show his entitlement to the 
funds. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me Pockit were reasonable in returning the funds to 
source  this doesnt seem to be in line with their terms, and there doesnt seem to be any 
genuine dispute over the ownership of these funds. I also havent seen anything to explain 
why it was reasonable for Pockit to take over a year to carry out their review. 
Turning to the transactions that Mr T is disputing  Ive received no further information from 
Pockit about this. So, I remain satisfied that these were unauthorised transactions as per the 
PSRs. The transactions that are likely distance contracts should be refunded under Section 
77 of the PSRs. I also remain satisfied Mr T had provided notification of the loss of his 
payment instrument as per Section 72 of the PSRs, so shouldnt be held liable for the ATM 
withdrawal after this point.
Mr T has commented that he may have hoped for more compensation, so Ive revisited y 
thoughts on the customer service. I remain satisfied that Pockit didnt respond to Mr Ts 
situation with sympathy or due care. This will have been a particularly stressful and difficult 
time for him, and I accept Pockits actions will have made things worse. But I also am 
minded that a lot of the distress will have been outside of Pockits control  such as the 
kidnapping. That said the way Pockit have handled his account has clearly been 
inappropriate, and as such Im still minded £500 is a fair reflection of the impact of their 
actions on him.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint the following steps should be taken:
Refund Mr T the £214.98 in the account when it was blocked  and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the block to the date of settlement.
Refund Mr T the unauthorized payments totalling £995.60  and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr T £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for the poor 
customer service he received.For the interest awards, it may be required by HM Revenue & Customer to deduct income 
tax from that interest. If this is the case Mr T should be given a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customer if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Wirecard Card Solutions Limited 
to settle it as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman