DRN-4281347
The complaint
Mrs A complains that BISL Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy. She wants it to 
honour the price for the policy originally quoted or pay her the difference between this and 
her new policy. 
What happened
Mrs A found a new policy through an online comparison site. It was administered by BISL. 
Mrs A accepted the quote it provided and paid a deposit. But, two weeks later, BISL said the 
policy would be cancelled. It said a system error meant that the policy price had been too 
low, and the insurer wouldnt agree to this. It refunded Mrs As deposit and paid her £250 
compensation. But Mrs A was unhappy as she said she couldnt find a replacement policy 
for the same price. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought BISL 
had made an error. But she thought its redress for this was fair and reasonable. She didnt 
see that Mrs As other quotes provided the same cover. So she couldnt compare them. 
Mrs A replied that shed been tricked into taking out a policy with BISL. She felt unfairly 
treated and wanted compensation for the higher price she had to pay for her new policy. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs A feels frustrated that BISL made an error and now she is paying 
a higher price for her motor insurance policy. She has explained that this is an additional 
financial stress. And she is also unhappy with the time it has taken to resolve the issue. 
BISL accepts that it made an error. It said a system fault led to it offering a policy to Mrs A 
for the incorrect premium and the insurer wouldnt agree to this. And so the policy was 
cancelled with 16 days notice. I can see that Mrs As policy documents explain that BISL 
can cancel a policy, and charge a cancellation fee, with 7 days notice. No cancellation fee 
was charged, and I think that was fair. 
When a business makes a mistake, as BISL accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
To put things right for Mrs A, BISL refunded her the deposit she had paid. So Mrs A had a 
months free cover. Mrs A had 16 days notice of the cancellation, so I think she had 
reasonable time to find an alternative policy. I note there was just 7 days between Mrs As 
purchase of her original policy and the start date. So I dont think she was disadvantaged 
here. 
Mrs A said the quotes she found were all higher than the cheaper quote provided by BISL. 
And I can see that the policy she took out is more expensive than her original policy. But its 
not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should consider 
when calculating a risk. Insurers regularly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And 
their rates continually change. And I cant say that BISL was responsible for the increase in 
price quoted by the insurers. 
Mrs A wanted BISL to compensate her for the increase in price she had to pay for a new 
policy. But I havent seen details of these policies and so I cant say they provide the same 
level of cover. In any case, Mrs A was quoted an incorrect price at the start. She would have 
had to pay a higher premium but for BISLs error. And I think that its unfair for Mrs A to 
benefit from the error. So I think BISL reasonably restored Mrs As position. And I dont 
require BISL to pay Mrs A further compensation. 
BISL also paid Mrs A £250 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs A was disappointed and frustrated 
by BISLs error. She had to take the trouble to find new cover and pursue her complaint. I 
think this compensation is very fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require BISL 
to increase it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman