DRN-1594487
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gregory Pennington Limited misled him about the outstanding 
payments on his debt management plan that it was administering. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr B tells us that in early 2019 he contacted GPL regarding his debt management plan 
(DMP) in order to check the remaining balance. He says he was told that hed completed 
payments and there was nothing more to pay. And that it had later sent him a cheque for 
£35 without giving any reason as to why it had done so. And which he took to be a refund of 
an overpayment. He says that subsequently GPL chased him for an outstanding payment on 
the plan. He further complains it increased his monthly direct debit payment without an 
explanation.
GPL told us that it had taken over the administration of the DMP in April 2018 from a 
company I'll call "H". It said that Mr B had phoned on 11 March 2019, but he hadnt been told 
that hed completed all his payments. And it said that during that call hed promised to make 
the final payment. But had never done so. It said it had tried to contact him about the 
remaining balance to advise that this might lead to his creditors imposing further charges if it 
wasnt settled. GPL said that the cheque which had been sent was a gesture of goodwill in 
the form of a refund of the final management fee due on the March payment. And was to 
assist Mr B to become debt free. It later advised that the reasons for the difference in direct 
debit amount was that it distributed payments to creditors on a monthly basis as opposed to 
the four weekly period used by H. It was unable to confirm if an explanation had been sent to 
Mr B.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that during 
the phone call of 11 March, Mr B had said he would make the final payment on the 
agreement. But he hadnt rung back on 18 March as hed promised, and he hadnt made the 
payment. He thought Mr B ought to have been aware this payment was still outstanding.
Mr B didnt accept this outcome. He maintained hed been told hed made all the required 
payments. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that Mr B would be disappointed to be informed that he still had an outstanding 
payment to make on his DMP if he thought it had already been settled.
Mr Bs complaint relates to GPLs handling of his DMP. He states he was told that hed made 
all the relevant payments on the arrangement. And he says that repeated attempts to 
contact him about the allegedly missing payment amounted to harassment. He also says 
GPL increased his monthly direct debit without telling him.
Im aware hes mentioned an issue relating to Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Our 
investigator advised Mr B that the PPI matter related to a different business to GPL and 
needed to be taken up with that business. Im unable to take this aspect any further as this 
complaint only relates to GPL.
Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my 
own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive listened to a recording of the phone call of 11 March 2019. In that call Mr B is initially told 
his account balance is £91.56. But the call handler then notices that Mr B had recently made 
a payment which had reduced this to just over £37. Mr B goes on to say that he can pay this 
remaining sum the following Monday (18 March) and that he will cancel the direct debit due 
a few days later. Im in no doubt that at the end of this call Mr B was aware there was still 
one remaining payment due on his DMP.
Mr B has referred to another telephone call in which he says he was told hed completed all 
his payments on the DMP. Ive not been supplied with a recording of any other call and GPL 
has been unable to trace any further calls after 11 March, until August 2019 which is when 
Mr B made this complaint.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I asked GPL to supply all the notes of contact it had with Mr B. Ive examined these and Im 
unable to see any record of the phone call to which Mr B refers. Theres a record of the 11 
March call along with details of subsequent texts and GPLs attempts to contact Mr B about 
the final payment. The next two recorded phone contacts are on 20 and 22 August 2019. 
The contact notes appear comprehensive  including those with GPLs predecessor (H) in 
managing the debt - and Im satisfied this is likely to represent a complete record of contact.
In the absence of any record of any further call, the contents of the 11 March conversation 
show Mr B knew he had a further payment to make on the DMP. And that hed promised to 
pay this the following week. That payment wasnt made, and Mr B cancelled his direct debit. 
Its probable that Mr B intended to make the final payment but that it was overlooked. And 
the later receipt of the refund of the management fee may have given the impression that the 
DMP had been fully settled. But as theres no information to show that the final payment was 
made, I think Mr B knew or ought reasonably to have known, it was still outstanding. And 
that remains the current position.
As the DMP was still in force GPL was required to maintain contact with Mr B. Ive seen no 
information to show it did more than try to contact Mr B about the remaining amount or that it 
did so unreasonably. 
GPL has explained that the change in direct debit didnt increase the total monthly amount 
payable in overall terms. Rather it adjusted it to reflect payments were distributed to Mr Bs creditors on a monthly as opposed to four-weekly basis (28 days). As calendar months are 
longer than four weeks, the amount was varied to account for this. In summary, over a 
twelve month period GPL wouldve received 12 direct debits rather than 13 if it had 
maintained the four-weekly cycle of payments.
GPL has been unable to confirm that this was explained to Mr B. And in order to avoid the 
confusion that arose it ought to have done so. But as an explanation has now been given - 
and no financial loss arose  I shant ask it to do anything else. 
GPL has indicated that it is still willing to waive the fee on his final payment if Mr B settles 
this latter amount within a reasonable time. At that point his obligations under the DMP will 
have been satisfied.
In summary, I find that GPL has acted fairly and has kept Mr B informed of the outstanding 
amount required to complete the DMP. It has also made a gesture of goodwill in refunding 
the final management fee. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman