DRN-3289445
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr V is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr V bought solar panels for his home in December 2017. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly 
misleading Mr V into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. The 
CMC also says that Ikano misled him about the total price of the panels.
Mr Vs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He did not agree that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr V. He said that the installer had made it 
clear that the benefits would not be enough to cover the loan repayments and that there 
would in fact be a shortfall. The CMC didnt respond, so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain 
why.
Cost vs benefits
The document entitled Estimated Returns sets out the cost and the estimated benefits of 
the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost. It gives the 
monthly payment as £85.26, the monthly benefit as £21.17, and then it gives the shortfall as 
£64.07. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in some fine print.
(The shortfall figure is off by 2p, because the monthly payment figure has been corrected 
from £85.24 without updating the shortfall, but I dont think that is significant.)
So I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr V about the benefits and cost of the 
panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan.
Total price
The CMC has said that the cash price for the panels, £7,750, was misleading, because the 
cost of repaying the loan, and therefore the true cost, was actually £10,229.73.
I am not persuaded by this argument, because the loan agreement made it very clear that 
the total amount payable was £10,229.73. It gave a breakdown of the cash price (as above), 
the total charge for credit, £2,479.73, and the total amount payable.
Mr V also signed Ikanos validation sheet, which gives the cash price and the total amount 
payable as separate figures, as well as the monthly loan payment of £85.26. Each of these 
documents makes it clear that Mr V was taking out an interest-bearing loan. Im satisfied that 
there is nothing in this ground of complaint.
Performance
I have checked the performance of the solar panels. At the point of sale, it was estimated 
that the panels would yield approximately 2,114 kWh in the first year. From Mr Vs feed-in 
tariff statements, it appears that the panels have actually yielded an average of 2,255 kWh a 
year, which is slightly more than was estimated, so Im satisfied that the panels are 
performing properly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman