DRN-1285130
 
The complaint
Mrs O complains that she was mis-sold a "Sun Life Direct Guaranteed Over 50 Plan" by 
Phoenix Life Limited. She's unhappy that she's paid more into the plan than it will now pay 
out.
What happened
Mrs O started her plan in 2014, when she was in her early 80s, and she's paid premiums 
of £10 per month since then for a sum assured of £575. Mrs O didn't discuss starting the 
plan with a financial adviser. Rather, it was a 'direct sale', meaning she responded to some 
marketing information. 
Phoenix Life didn't uphold the complaint because it felt the information provided to Mrs O 
had been clear and not misleading in any way. It said it had explained how the plan worked 
and how much it would cost. In short, Phoenix Life felt Mrs O had been given sufficient 
information to be able to decide whether the plan was suitable for her needs.  
Mrs O didn't accept Phoenix Life's response and referred the matter to this service. But our 
investigator reached the same conclusion as Phoenix Life, for the same reasons and also 
because the sales documentation had highlighted that there was a chance that more could 
be paid into the plan than would ultimately be paid out. 
Mrs O remained very unhappy as she felt the advertisements for this type of plan suggested 
that thousands of pounds would be paid out. 
So, as no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate Mrs O will be disappointed that I think the same as the adjudicator. I realise that 
it feels frustrating when the amount paid to an insurance plan reaches a point where it totals 
more than the plan will ever pay out. But that is the nature of insurance and it's an issue 
that's often particularly apparent with this sort of plan. 
But it doesn't mean that Phoenix Life has done anything wrong. With this being a 'direct 
sale', where no advice was given, Phoenix Life was simply responsible for making sure the 
information provided about the plan was clear and not misleading. And I think the information 
was clear - to the extent that it specifically warned of the situation Mrs O has now 
experienced.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman