DRN-2410059
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of M, a limited company, that TSB Bank plc closed Ms business 
accounts. He also complains that M was adversely affected by IT outages in 2018.
What happened
Mr C is the director of M, which had business accounts with TSB. (He has also complained 
about his own personal account, but that has been dealt with in a separate decision.)
Between April and September 2018, some of TSBs customers, including M, were adversely 
affected by some problems resulting from a systems upgrade. TSB apologised for that, and 
sent Mr C a letter explaining that any missed direct debit payments were not his fault, which 
he could show to any third parties he needed to. TSB also refunded or waived all relevant 
charges, and paid £1,500 compensation to his company (TSB dealt with all of the accounts 
together as one complaint; it was not split into two complaints until Mr C complained to our 
service). Mr C objected to this, as TSB did not specify how much of that compensation was 
for his own personal inconvenience, arising from the disruption to his personal account, and 
how much was meant to be compensation to his company for the disruption to its business 
accounts.
Mr C complained to TSB, and subsequently to our service, that however the compensation 
was meant to be distributed, it was not enough. He also complained about some other 
issues, for which another £150 compensation was paid and more charges were refunded. In 
February 2019, TSB gave him two months notice that it was going to close all of the 
accounts. The reason it gave him at the time was that he had complained so much that TSB 
had decided that it could not meet his expectations, and that accordingly the relationship 
between the parties had broken down. But when Mr C complained about that decision and 
asked for the accounts to remain open, TSB sent him another letter in March, in which it 
stated that it was closing the accounts because Mr C had told it that he lacked the mental 
capacity to manage his finances properly, and had failed to obtain a power of attorney so 
that someone else could interact with TSB for him.
Our investigator assumed that although the compensation had been paid to M, it had really 
been meant for Mr C. Since a limited company cant feel distress the way an individual can, 
he thought that was fair. He also said that TSB had been entitled to close the accounts, 
since it had provided the proper notice, and its original reason had been reasonable. He did 
not think that the alternative reason TSB had offered later was something for which the 
company (as opposed to Mr C himself) should be compensated.
Mr C did not agree with that decision. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the question of how much of the compensation TSB has already paid was meant to 
be (or should be, or should have been) apportioned to Mr C as an individual, and how much 
to his company, is a red herring. I dont think it is necessary for me to make any finding 
about that. At the time, TSB was treating all of the issues involving all of the accounts as one 
consolidated complaint, so I doubt that it gave any thought to apportioning the compensation 
between two legal persons. Mr C was the only individual in charge of his company, and so 
any inconvenience caused to his company was effectively his own inconvenience too. 
Consequently, I think that taking a global approach to compensation, and deciding how 
much to award in the round, is not an unreasonable or unfair approach to take here, 
notwithstanding that the complainants are technically different entities. To do otherwise 
would risk double counting.
Having taken that approach, I think that TSB paid fair compensation for the issues the 
compensation was paid for. It was in line with what I think I would have awarded if no 
compensation had been paid.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman