DRN-3297579
The complaint
Mr E complains that after he bought a motor breakdown policy from Eversure Limited it failed 
to correct his email address, to re-send policy documents and to deal with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr E bought the policy on 27 July 2020 and Eversure sent the documents to the email 
address hed given. As there was a typing error in the address, they didnt reach him. Mr E 
contacted a business that provides services for Eversure (firm A) the same day to correct 
the error. One of firm As advisors said the matter would be addressed the next day. As it 
wasnt, Mr E contacted firm A again on 29 July 2020. Another advisor said that only 
Eversure could provide policy documents and that any complaint about that should be sent 
to Eversure. She gave Mr E a contact address for it that was unmonitored, so Eversure 
didnt respond to the complaint Mr E made. He then complained to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint. He said the evidence Eversure had sent 
to us showed that the policy documents were first sent to the incorrect email address Mr E 
had provided. But they were re-sent to his correct email address on 29 July 2020. The 
investigator said he couldnt uphold Mr Es complaint about that issue, even though Mr E 
said he hadnt received the documents. The investigator said Eversure hadnt been aware of 
Mr Es complaint, due to the address firm A had supplied (although an automated response 
was issued from it). But Eversure had offered him £10 as a gesture of goodwill anyway.
Mr E said he hadnt received an automated reply to his email. He also queried why, if 
Eversure said it didnt know about his complaint, it said it had changed his email address 
and re-sent the documents. He thought that proved Eversure had ignored his complaint. He 
said he still had no documents and that Eversure had not offered him £10.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Eversure has provided extracts from its system that show Mr Es policy documents were first 
sent to the wrong email address, and that on 29 July 2020 they were sent to the right one. At 
that point, Eversure was unaware that Mr E had contacted firm A earlier that day to query 
the situation. Recently, in reply to a query from us, Eversure provided a transcript of an 
online chat between Mr E and one of its advisors on 29 July 2020. It shows that Mr E told the 
advisor about the incorrect email address and the advisor changed it and re-sent the 
documents. The transcript also shows that Mr E told the advisor at the time that hed now 
received them. 
In the light of the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr E can show that Eversure failed to 
correct his email address, or that it didnt re-send the policy documents to him. His complaint 
to Eversure went to the unmonitored address given to him by firm A, which explains why 
Eversure didnt know about it. Weve checked the address firm A gave Mr E and have 
confirmed that it issues an automated reply giving alternate contact details for Eversure. 
It seems that Mr E didnt get the automated response, so I can understand his frustration 
when there was no reply to his complaint. But I dont think Eversure can be blamed for that, 
as the system is set up to ensure that consumers get the right advice if they contact the 
unmonitored address. And I note that firm A also gave Mr E a telephone number for 
Eversure and told him there was a contact form on Eversures website. So I think its fair to 
say that Mr E had other ways to contact Eversure to chase a response to his complaint.
When we told Eversure about Mr Es complaint in October 2021, it says it searched its client 
contact database and found that hed contacted firm A in 2020. It explained why it hadnt 
been aware of his complaint, and it said it would offer Mr E £10 (as a gesture of goodwill) 
given firm As poor advice. Later on it provided the evidence that showed why it was able to 
amend the incorrect email address it held for Mr E - and that it had re-sent the documents to 
him in July 2020. Its very unfortunate that Mr E didnt get them, but I dont think Eversure 
can reasonably be expected to know why emails it can show it issued werent received. 
The £10 gesture of goodwill was put to Mr E personally in December 2021, when he 
contacted Eversure directly. He thinks it should have been communicated to him earlier, and 
in his view, that amounts to a service failure on Eversures part. But Eversure was dealing 
with his complaint through us. So in my opinion, it was reasonable for it to provide a 
response to us and allow the investigator to convey it to Mr E, which he did in his view.   
I dont think Mr E has shown that Eversure failed to amend his contact details or to re-send 
his documents. And I dont think theres evidence that it ignored his complaint to it. So Im 
not upholding Mr Es complaint to us about Eversure.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman