DRN-2887575
The complaint
Mr and Ms W complain about the administration of their personal pension plans by 
ReAssure Limited (ReAssure). They say they couldnt access their accounts online. Theyd 
like an explanation for the loss of functionality on their accounts. Theyd also like 
compensation for the loss of functionality. 
ReAssure is responsible for this complaint, although the complaint arose when the 
administration of Mr and Ms Ws personal pensions was carried out by another provider. Ill 
only use ReAssures name in my decision. Ill refer to the other provider as the initial 
provider.
What happened
Mr and Ms W have personal pension plans with ReAssure. They contacted the initial 
provider on 9 December 2019 to tell them they no longer had access to the full functionality 
theyd previously had on their accounts. At first they couldnt switch funds online. But later 
they also had no online access to the details of the individual funds and their values. 
Mr and Ms W said no one at the initial provider responded to their issues. So they raised a 
complaint on 16 January 2020. 
The initial provider replied on 30 January 2020. They apologised for the problems Mr and Ms 
W were experiencing and said they would investigate the cause. They offered £100 
compensation. Mr and Ms W didnt accept this.
Mr and Ms W wrote to the initial provider again on 13 February 2020. They wanted an 
explanation about why the online switching service was unavailable. The initial provider 
replied on 20 February 2020. They said that full functionality couldnt be restored. And that 
Mr and Ms W wouldnt be able to switch online. The response said that full functionality was 
expected once the transfer to ReAssure had completed. This was scheduled for 6 April 
2020. It also confirmed the remaining available methods to access plan information and 
switches. 
Mr and Ms W asked further questions on 20 February 2020. They asked if there was any 
material difference to switching online or by the Contact Centre. 
The initial provider replied the same day to explain that there was no material difference with 
switching. They said that although an e-mailed switch request would take longer to process, 
the correct date would be used. 
On 21 February 2020 Mr and Ms W told the initial provider that functionality on their 
accounts had got even worse since their initial complaint about not being able to switch 
online. Now they couldnt look at past transactions, or the current value of individual funds in 
their accounts. While they noted that there were alternative ways to switch funds, they felt 
they were much more inconvenient. They were also disappointed that the initial provider had 
yet to explain why full functionality had been lost.
Unhappy, Mr and Ms W brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld. He felt Mr and Ms W could still make appropriate changes to their plans 
as and when they required. He could see that the initial provider had admitted its fault and 
had offered what he felt was an appropriate amount of compensation under the 
circumstances.
As Mr and Ms W didnt accept our investigators opinion, the case has come to me for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Ms W lost the online functionality theyd previously valued. 
So I need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for that functionality to have been 
removed. And I also need to consider what impact its removal has had on Mr and Ms W.
Ill consider the removal of the functionality first. And then Ill consider the impact of that 
removal on Mr and Ms W. 
Online functionality
Its not our role to tell a business how it should operate. From what Ive seen by reading the 
Members Booklet, the Terms Sheet and the Key Features document, the initial provider 
didnt need to provide online functionality. None of these documents make any provision for 
online access to the accounts. 
While I can understand the frustration Mr and Ms W clearly feel at having had access to a 
service which was then withdrawn without a full explanation, I cant say the initial provider 
did anything wrong when it stopped providing such access. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Ms W have provided a list of the attributes of the Online Service 
function, taken from their 2020 annual pension statements. I agree that this contains a list of 
the methods that theyd become used to using to access their pension plans. And I can see 
that several of these attributes were removed without warning. But the terms and conditions 
of Mr and Ms Ws plans dont provide for online access to their accounts.
From what Ive seen, Mr and Ms W expected full functionality to be restored prior to the 
transfer to ReAssure. I can understand why. But as their plans dont provide for online 
access this isnt something I couldve required the initial provider to do. 
The initial provider said Mr and Ms W could make transfers between funds or request a 
value of their accounts by phone or by writing to them. They also confirmed that there would 
be no material difference to switching if using these methods instead of doing it online. While 
Mr and Ms W might prefer to have online access to their accounts, as their plans dont 
provide for such access, I cant say the initial provider did anything wrong in only offering 
these other methods to contact them. 
Impact of loss of functionality
Although Mr and Ms W didnt have online access to their accounts, they could still contact 
the initial provider by telephone or in writing, to request a valuation of their account, or to 
transfer funds. I acknowledge that Mr and Ms W have said these methods are less 
convenient than having online access. While I agree that calling the provider would be less convenient, Im satisfied that the secure 
message option wouldve been similarly convenient to switching online. And as the initial 
provider confirmed that the correct date for the switch would be used, Im satisfied that any 
switch would be actioned without causing a financial loss.
So I agree with our investigator that Mr and Ms W were effectively in the same position as 
they were before the online functionality was removed. And that although there was clearly a 
deterioration in the quality of the service provided, there was not a deterioration in the actual 
service provided.
However, I do acknowledge that the removal of previous functionality without explanation 
mustve been frustrating for Mr and Ms W. The initial provider offered £100 and apologised 
for the loss of functionality. Mr and Ms W: It is arguable that the offer of £100 was made in 
the expectation that the problem would be eventually resolved. They note that at the same 
time as the £100 offer was made, the initial provider also said: said ..Ill keep you informed 
and let you know when weve resolved the problem. Three weeks later, the initial provider 
told Mr and Ms W that the problem wasnt going to be fixed. 
Mr and Ms W said that they relied on the online service, and that the initial provider declined 
to fix it when it no longer worked. They dont feel that £100 compensation offered is fair or 
reasonable. They said that they paid almost £1,000 in Annual Management Charges (AMC) 
to the initial provider in the year ended 15 March 2020. And they didnt agree with our 
investigator that the platform functionality shouldnt be linked to the AMC. 
While I acknowledge that the problem wasnt resolved to Mr and Ms Ws satisfaction, Im 
satisfied that the alternative methods offered to keep up with their accounts or to take 
actions within their accounts were workable. I acknowledge Mr and Ms Ws point about how 
the online platform was previously paid for. But note that as I consider they continued to be 
provided with the same actual service as they were before online functionality was removed, 
that service also needs to be paid for. As I consider the actual service provided was 
equivalent, it follows that I wouldnt expect there to be a reduction in cost. So Im satisfied 
that any compensation offered doesnt need to be linked to the AMC actually paid. And, 
based on the impact it had on Mr and Ms W, I consider that the £100 offer was fair and 
reasonable. So I consider that the initial provider attempted to resolve the matter fairly and in 
a reasonable way.
I understand Mr and Ms Ws strength of feeling about the need for continued provision of 
online access to their pension plans. Ive considered everything theyve submitted, including 
the analogies theyve provided. But Ive found no evidence that the removal of online 
functionality caused them to suffer financially. 
In conclusion, Mr and Ms Ws pension plans dont require them to have online access. The 
alternative methods they do have access to dont lead to a financial loss. And the initial 
provider took reasonable steps to put things right when they offered £100 compensation. So 
I wont be asking ReAssure to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman