DRN-1910211
The complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about the amount of compensation offered to her by AXA France IARD 
for a mis-sold payment protection policy (PPI).
What happened
In 1996 Mrs E applied for a store card. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy. In total 
Mrs E paid PPI premiums of £113.68.
In 2019 Mrs E complained to AXA that the PPI had been mis-sold to her. AXA didnt agree 
so Mrs E asked us to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought the complaint should be upheld. They asked AXA to 
refund the PPI premiums Mrs E had paid, plus any associated costs and compensatory 
interest.
AXA agreed to uphold Mrs Es complaint. But AXA said Mrs E had made a successful claim 
for accident and sickness against the policy in 1999 and had received £247.59 from the 
insurer. It deducted this amount from the total compensation and offered Mrs E £108.44.
Mrs E cannot recall making any claim on the policy. Mrs E says she wasnt even aware the 
PPI had been added to the store card so would not have made a claim.
Our adjudicator thought it was fair for AXA to deduct the claim from Mrs Es compensation. 
Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look into 
how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs E. Where there is limited information, I will make 
my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available.
Our normal approach in cases where we uphold a complaint about the mis-sale of a 
PPI policy is to ensure the consumer is put back in the position they would have been if they 
had not taken it out in the first place. So I have looked at the offer of compensation made by 
AXA to see if it is calculated in line with this approach.
And what AXA has done does appear to be in line with our general approach. So the only 
outstanding issue is whether it is fair for AXA to take into account the value of the claim it 
says was paid to Mrs E.Where a consumer has made a successful claim under a PPI policy, and we subsequently 
find it was mis-sold, we usually consider it reasonable for the business to take away the 
value of that claim from the consumers compensation.
This is because we would expect the business to put the consumer back in the position they 
would have been if they had taken out the credit without the PPI policy  which in this case 
means that Mrs E would not have been able to claim on the policy, and would not have 
received the £247.59.
However, in this case Mrs E disputes ever making the claim against the policy.
I can see that when this service first asked AXA for its file on Mrs Es store card it included 
records of two claims. The first was made in 1998 and was a redundancy claim. The records 
show that no payment was made for this claim.
The second claim on AXAs records was for an accident or sickness claim in 1999 and the 
records show Mrs E received £247.59 which would have been paid to her store card 
account.
Our adjudicator asked AXA if it had more detailed records and AXA approached the policy 
insurer. The policy insurer stated that its records showed Mrs E had made the two claims. It 
said the first redundancy claim was not paid as it had requested further information which 
wasnt received. The second claim was paid out in 1999.
Ive thought carefully about this. I know Mrs E cannot recall making the claims but I have to 
take into account that these events took place over 20 years ago and memories do fade. I do 
accept it is possible another persons claim was entered accidentally on Mrs Es records, but 
in my view it is more likely the records are correct.
The main reason the adjudicator upheld the PPI mis-sale complaint was due to the casual 
nature of Mrs Es employment. And this would match the record the insurer has of Mrs E not 
being able to provide information to progress the redundancy claim in 1998.
So after taking everything into account I think it is fair for AXA to deduct the claim amount of 
£247.59 from the compensation it owes Mrs E.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA France IARD can deduct the claim amount of £247.59 from the 
compensation it owes Mrs E. If it has not already done so AXA France IARD should now 
recalculate the compensation to bring it up to date and make payment to Mrs E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman