DRN-3491290
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited wouldnt pay out following a 
burglary claim under a commercial combined insurance policy.
Mr A is bringing a complaint on behalf of a company C. For ease of reference Ill refer to 
Mr A throughout.
Although lots of businesses and representatives of RSA have been involved, Ill refer mainly 
to RSA throughout.
What happened
Mr A notified RSA of a break in at the business address. Due to the size of the claim RSA 
appointed specialist loss adjusters to inspect and validate the claim.
At the point when the claim was going to be settled Mr A provided bank details for the claim 
payment to go to. The loss adjuster noticed that the bank account details were for another 
company T. The loss adjuster looked into this further and found it was an alternative 
account for a different company V. After checking the loss adjuster found that Mr A wasnt 
a director of C, and neither was the person who had initially set up this policy. The loss 
adjuster contacted the actual director of C who hadnt been involved in the claim at any 
stage and he denied all knowledge of the insurance policy or the claim. The director said C 
was a dormant company. Based on these details RSA declined the claim as C, the company 
insured on the policy hadnt suffered any loss.
RSA also said if the policy had been requested under the name of V it wouldnt have offered 
cover due to Mr As prior financial history. Unhappy with the outcome Mr A brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint after suitable checks and assurances had been 
gathered to continue with the complaint with Mr A. He said it was clear that C was a trading 
name of V. He accepted Mr As point that the policy set up was clearly a clerical error and 
that V was the company the policy was supposed to cover. Our investigator said it was 
unreasonable for the claim to fail based on a name being incorrectly input. He said that RSA 
should reconsider the facts of the claim on the details presented rather than the company 
name. Our investigator said RSA should reinstate the policy (it had been cancelled and the 
premiums refunded) and deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
To do this he asked Mr A to return the refunded premiums and confirmed that policy 
reinstatement wouldnt guarantee the claim would be paid.
RSA responded saying it accepted this. It said it would await repayment of the premium to 
allow it to reconsider the claim once the policy had been reinstated. RSA confirmed the 
payment would need to be arranged through the broker T. RSA also confirmed that any 
claim put forward by V would need to be done so by an authorised officer of that company. 
RSA said Mr A isnt a director or officer of V.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr As concerns that he would just like RSA to settle the claim. But I accept the point 
that a policy needs to be in place first before a claim can be considered and reinstatement of 
a policy is a necessary start point before further action around the claim can occur. This is a 
standard process. This service wont just ask RSA to pay without there being a policy in 
place.
I can understand Mr As concern that as the claim hasnt been paid out, hes worried that the 
premium refund money is the only amount he managed to get back from RSA when the 
policy was cancelled.
But I think as RSA is willing to reconsider the claim on the terms it has mentioned above this 
is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence provided.
Mr A is clear that the business was robbed. And based on the way the claim settlement was 
developing it did appear that a payment was close before the further details emerged. I think 
it was understandable in the circumstances for RSA to conduct further investigations from 
that point, even though I can see why Mr A found this frustrating.
I think the terms put forward by RSA on which it is willing to reconsider the claim are 
reasonable.
If Mr A does decide to go pay the premiums and the policy is set up again RSA will 
reconsider the claim and any issues that arise from this should be discussed between the 
appropriate parties. If there are any problems with the claim afterwards, or the returned 
premiums, that cant be resolved, then potentially a new complaint could be brought to this 
service.
Putting things right
Reconsider the complaint in line with the policy terms and conditions once the premiums 
have been repaid and the policy reinstated.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require RSA to reconsider the complaint in line with the policy terms and conditions once 
the premiums have been repaid and the policy reinstated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman