DRN-3291098
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc registered a default against her after it closed her 
current account.
What happened
Miss F had a bank account with Santander, which she opened in 2018. The account had an 
arranged overdraft facility of £250, which was removed and then increased to £1,500 in 
September 2019. 
But aside from a deposit of £1,000 which Miss F made in August 2019, Miss F made no 
further deposits to the account. So Santander wrote to Miss F in December 2019 to 
explained it wanted her to start paying money into the account on a regular basis. It asked 
her to do this again in January 2020. And then in February Santander wrote to Miss F giving 
her 10 days to make a payment into her account.
As Miss F didnt make a payment, Santander restricted her account and blocked her debit 
card  and wrote to her explaining it had done this. In early March 2020, Santander told 
Miss F it would withdraw her banking facilities and shed need to repay her overdraft in full 
unless she made a payment of £20 within 10 days. Then on 17 March 2020 Santander 
withdrew Miss Fs banking facilities and demanded payment of the overdraft in full within 10 
days.
Miss F then contacted Santander. At first, she agreed to pay £200 a month towards the 
account. Santander agreed to an arrangement to repay the overdraft over seven months, 
starting in April 2020. This would be subject to a review in late May, and Santander told Miss 
F shed need to contact it before then.
In April 2020, however, Miss F contacted Santander to say she couldnt pay £200, 
Santander agreed she could pay £100 instead. Miss F made the payment in April.
Then in May 2020, a few days before the arrangement was due to be reviewed, Miss F 
called Santander again. Shed received a text message telling her she needed to pay £200. 
The adviser at Santander looked into this and thought this had been sent by mistake  the 
text message hadnt been amended to reflect the lower payment of £100. The adviser 
offered to talk to Miss F about her arrangement to repay the overdraft. But the line dropped. 
Miss F didnt call again to discuss her arrangement  but continued to make payments of 
£100 in May, June and July.
Meanwhile, towards the end of May, Santander wrote to Miss F to confirm it had received 
the payment of £100 towards her overdraft. But she now needed to pay the balance in full. 
She could, however, still contact Santander to discuss an arrangement. In June, Santander 
sent Miss F a default notice giving her 14 days to repay the overdraft. The account defaulted 
in July.
Miss F was unhappy that Santander registered a default against her. She says she thought 
she was still in an arrangement to repay the overdraft  and had been making the 
repayments. And she says that she didnt receive Santanders correspondence from late 
March onwards as she was living somewhere else during the coronavirus pandemic.
I issued my provisional findings on 25 November 2021. 
I said that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Id also taken into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. In particular, the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) had issued Principles for the reporting of arrears, 
arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies. Principle 4 states that if you fall 
into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a 
default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down. If an arrangement 
is agreed, then a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of that 
arrangement are broken.
In this case, Miss F had an overdraft. This was repayable on demand  and so after 
Santander withdrew Miss Fs banking facilities, it demanded repayment of the overdraft 
within 10 days. It was then that Miss F entered the arrangement. She initially agreed to pay 
£200 a month for seven months. But the arrangement Santander set up included a review 
after the second payment. Santander sent me a statement from the adviser who set up the 
arrangement  this says Santanders budget planner showed a deficit. So it seemed 
Santander had concerns about the long run affordability of the arrangement.
Indeed, Miss F then contacted Santander in April to say that she wouldnt be able to pay 
£200, and arranged to pay £100 in April and May instead. The notes say that Miss F hoped 
to be able to make larger repayments in September once she had returned to university.
Miss F then contacted Santander again in May. Shed received a text message telling her 
she needed to pay £200, not the £100 that had been agreed. Id listened to that call. The 
adviser stated that Miss F needed to call Santander to review the arrangement on 25 May. 
But as that day was a bank holiday, the adviser offered to extend the arrangement to 26 
May. The adviser also offered to review the arrangement at that point. Miss F also 
mentioned during the call the possibility of paying £500 to the account  but Miss Fs call 
dropped. Although the adviser tried to call back  and I see Miss F also called back and 
asked to speak to the adviser these calls were dropped as well. This meant Miss F didnt 
review the arrangement as agreed. Miss F didnt then contact Santander again until July. At 
this point Santander had already registered the account in default.
Wed asked Miss F about this. Shed said that she had family and mental health issues that 
meant she was unable to make that call in May. She also says she expected Santander to 
call her back. She nevertheless continued to pay £100 a month towards her arrangement. I 
have some sympathy for Miss F. Its clear she intended to repay this debt  she offered to 
pay £500 in May, and she has told us she had repaid the debt in full in September 2020 
shortly after it was transferred to a third party. But equally, I could see that, strictly speaking, 
Miss F had breached the terms of the arrangement: shed been told to call Santander to 
discuss the arrangement in May, and she hadnt completed the call.
Given what Id said, I could see why Santander registered the default. Miss F hadnt 
contacted it to discuss the arrangement, despite reminders during her calls to them. She 
also didnt respond when Santander wrote to her in May to explain the arrangement had now 
come to an end, or when it wrote to say it now planned to register the default in June.
That said, I needed to decide what was fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of Miss Fs complaint.Based on what Id seen, I was satisfied that Miss F intended to continue repaying the debt. I 
wasnt persuaded the relationship between Miss F and Santander had truly broken down at 
the point Santander registered the debt. I also noted that Miss F told Santander that she 
intended to return to university in September. As this was a student account, there was 
some prospect shed spend time away from her permanent address. And this account was 
paper-free  Miss F had told Santander she wanted to receive letters electronically; this 
was one of the conditions of her account. Given that she continued to make payments to the 
account, I thought Santander ought reasonably to have tried to contact her by other means.
Santanders records show it tried to call Miss F at least once. But this appeared to be after 
her call to Santander dropped in May. It appears Miss F in fact called Santander back but 
the call dropped again before the call could progress. But I hadnt seen anything to suggest 
that Santander tried to call Miss F after the arrangement ended, or before it registered the 
default. I was also mindful that Santander had previously contacted Miss F by text message 
 and the time it did contact Miss F by text message, she called later to clarify her next 
payment. For these reasons, I thought that if Santander had taken additional steps to contact 
Miss F, the default would have been avoided. Miss F had told us shes since cleared the 
balance. I therefore thought that the complaint should be upheld, and that Santander should 
arrange for the default to be removed from Miss Fs credit file.
I said Id consider any further comments I received by 23 December 2021. 
Miss F told us she agreed with my provisional decision. Santander has confirmed that it has 
received our decision, but it hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has agreed with my provisional findings, and Santander has not sent me anything 
further to consider. I therefore reach the same conclusions for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Santander should remove the default recorded on Miss Fs credit fileMy final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman