DRN-2411121
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) relates to the service she 
received after she locked herself out of her online account.
What happened
In the latter part of 2019, and as an attempt to increase her own security, Mrs C removed the 
cookies from her computer which resulted in her being locked out of her online banking. 
She contacted Tesco for help and a Temporary Security Number (TSN) was sent to her. 
Tesco would normally have sent a One Time Access Code (OTAC) to a UK landline or 
mobile phone, but because Mrs C was living outside the UK they couldnt do that. So, the 
TSN was sent by post on 12 November 2019. Mrs C then reset her security on 1 December 
2019.
In the early part of 2020 Mrs C again removed the cookies and became locked out of her 
account for a second time. She contacted Tesco and was told a TSN would be posted out to 
her, and that it would be valid for 30 days. Tesco say they sent the TSN by post on 2 April 
2020. At the time of making her complaint the TSN hadnt arrived, and that was more than 2 
months after it had been sent. Mrs C has said that as she was unable to get into her account 
this caused her financial problems and ultimately she had to transfer a large sum of money 
from her Tesco account to another bank. Mrs C was unhappy Tesco didnt do more to help 
her.
Tesco said they had made suggestions to get around the problem which Mrs C hadnt 
wished to take up, but ultimately they felt they hadnt acted unfairly as they had followed their 
procedures.
Mrs C was unhappy with Tescos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had poor service by 
Tesco because after the first time Mrs C locked herself out of her account, Tesco ought to 
have explained to her that deleting the cookies was the cause of the problem. 
With regard to other aspects of her complaint, he thought that Tesco ought to have ensured 
that the address they were using for Mrs C was accurate, and they ought not to have 
suggested sending the OTAC to a family member or friend in the UK. The investigator 
thought that Tesco should therefore pay Mrs C £100 in compensation as that would be a fair 
and reasonable resolution.
Tesco didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. This and it reflects the nature of our service 
as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Tesco acted fairly and 
reasonably. Where the evidence is incomplete, I think about what is more likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence which is available to me. 
I think a good starting point to this complaint is the information which Mrs C was given by 
Tesco. In 2018, and in compliance the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) Tesco 
added a message for all customers logging onto their account. The message related to 
Tescos use of cookies and had within it a link to their cookie policy so that customers 
could learn more if they wished. The policy contains a warning about deleting the cookies. 
The message appeared once and only reappeared if the cookies were deleted. The policy 
states:
If you clear your cookies you will need to set your cookie consent preferences again 
(as cookie consent preferences are stored in a cookie)
Mrs C had the opportunity to read the policy although given that she deleted her cookies I 
assume she probably didnt. As our role is to consider what is fair and reasonable, it might 
be argued that relying on that simple link is not sufficient to bring the point sufficiently to Mrs 
Cs attention. However, when Mrs C locked herself out of her account at the end of 2019 she 
reset her security on the 1 December. When she did that she would have been met with 
another message which said;
We recommend setting up your security cookie now. It doesnt store any personal or 
private information but does allow us to recognise its you. Without this security 
cookie youll need to get a One Time Access Code every time you log in.
I therefore find that Mrs C was certainly put on notice that the removal of cookies, or the 
absence of them, would result in the requirement for the OTAC. And so, when she deleted 
the cookies for the second time she would have known what the consequences would be.
I turn now to the TSN sent on the 2 April. Mrs C believes this wasnt sent to her because (a) 
it hadnt arrived and (b) during a call with a member of Tescos staff on 21 July 2020 she 
was told it wasnt. Tesco havent provided a copy of that call for me to listen to, so I am 
unable to say what was or wasnt said. But I dont think it has any bearing on the complaint 
because Mrs C has also confirmed that the 2 April letter did in fact turn up on 18 August. So, 
I am satisfied it was sent by Tesco because it actually arrived. 
Mrs C has also said that the reason this letter didnt get to her could have been due to the 
fact that the name of the island she was resident on was not included in the address line on 
the letter. However, an identically addressed letter dated 25 November 2019 did reach her 
on 13 December 2019 which shows that the postal service was effective. I cant say that it 
was therefore unreasonable for Tesco to have used the postal service since the evidence 
shows that certainly prior to 2 April 2020, items posted to her did indeed arrive. 
So, in looking to see whether Tesco were acting fairly when they sent the TSN I think they 
were, because that was the only method they had available to them, given Mrs Cs 
circumstances and preferences.Mrs C has also complained that Tesco suggested the OTAC could be sent to a friend or 
relatives mobile phone, given the difficulty Mrs C was in. Mrs C declined that approach and 
said she found the suggestion despicable customer service and for security reasons should 
not have been suggested. But had Mrs C accepted the suggestion then there would have 
been no breach of security as she would have voluntarily consented to the sending the 
OTAC to a phone number that she nominated. That would necessarily have been a phone 
number belonging to someone she knew and presumably would have been happy with, 
since if she was not she would have declined. In my view this was a suggestion to assist Mrs 
C within the safeguards of her being able to control where and to whom the OTAC was sent. 
Clearly as Mrs C wasnt comfortable with the suggestion she quite properly declined it. But I 
dont feel Tesco were unreasonable in making the suggestion.
Mrs C also complains that she was in financial difficulty and contacted Tesco by telephone 
with the intention of transferring money to another UK bank. However, she said the advisor 
she spoke to was useless and so she decided not to go ahead with the transfer because 
the advisors level of English was poor and when he asked if (where she lived) was in Wales 
I was not filled with confidence.
Ive listened to that call and I found the advisor to be very clear, calm and polite. His 
command of English was perfect, and I detected a slight Scottish accent. He was helpful and 
courteous, and I formed the view he was trying to assist Mrs C. I heard no reference to the 
place where Mrs C lived nor Wales. He offered on more than one occasion to facilitate the 
transfer, but Mrs C said she wanted to do it herself. I dont therefore agree that this aspect of 
the service was poor and to the contrary I thought it very good.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 22 November 2020 and both Mrs C and Tesco have 
responded. Tesco accepted the provisional decision, but Mrs C did not. She expressed 
concerns about impartiality and that complaints were not being investigated properly and 
thoroughly due to the vast workload this service has. She also explained that she and her 
husband had had a very difficult time in recent months and her anxiety and stress had been 
made worse by Tescos actions. 
Whilst I am very sorry to hear of the difficult circumstances Mrs C has endured, together with 
the increased stress and anxiety, there has been no new information presented which would 
cause me to change my provisional decision. I have nevertheless reviewed my decision and 
although Mrs C will probably be disappointed with it, I cant say Tesco has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman