DRN-4158756
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved him for an 
overdraft facility. Mr W is also unhappy at NatWests failure to remove the overdraft facility 
and the charges that were incurred as a result of this. 
What happened
Mr W complained to NatWest about the provision of the overdraft facility and charges 
incurred as a result. NatWest said on review of his account the overdraft facility and any 
credit limit increases were applied correctly and that when Mr W completed an application 
for borrowing it wouldve assessed the affordability. 
NatWest says all charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
but as a gesture of goodwill offered Mr W a refund of charges amounting to £315.79 
representing the last four months of charges. 
Mr W was dis-satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint but didnt think there were any signs of financial 
difficulty that shouldve prompted NatWest to treat Mr W any differently and didnt think the 
overdraft charges were applied unfairly. 
Mr W didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 4 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither NatWest or Mr W have added any new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im currently intending to find that NatWest 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Ws 
overdraft from December 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr W was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr W was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time  over a year. For the period looked at Mr W 
started by being overdrawn by £282 in December 2016. This crept up to £2,400 by August 
2017 and during this period Mr W didnt see a credit balance at all. Despite the credits 
coming in he just went further and further into his overdraft. NatWests own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
I accept that Mr Ws overdraft was paid off when a credit of £2,500 came in August 2017. 
But by the following month he was again overdrawn and continued that way and once again 
reached his limit by December 2017. And this same pattern continued for years until Mr W 
raised his complaint with NatWest. 
So I think if NatWest had properly reviewed Mr Ws overdraft usage it would have realised 
that Mr W wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Ws overdraft usage and instead continuing to 
allow him to spend and continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that NatWest didnt 
treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ws credit file, NatWest should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 
2017. NatWest can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr W over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file. NatWest 
can also reduce Mr Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so. HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman