DRN-3442683
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC have investigated the theft of his car, in
particular about how they conducted a telephone interview with him on 31 March 2021. He
also complains that his claim is still outstanding.
What happened
Mr L had motor insurance for his high value car with Zurich. On 3 January 2021 his vehicle
was stolen and Mr L made a claim under his policy for his vehicle. The vehicle was 
recovered by the police as it was fitted with a tracker.
As part of their investigation Zurich arranged for a claims investigator to obtain a statement
from Mr L on 22 January 2021. And on 31 March 2021 he participated in a telephone
interview conducted by Zurich. This interview wasnt completed as Mr L had another meeting
to attend. The rest of the interview was arranged for 7 April 2021, but this didnt go ahead as
Mr L raised a complaint on 6 April 2021.
Mr Ls claim hasnt been settled. Hes unhappy with how Zurich conducted the interview on
31 March 2021. Hes asked for a clear list of questions from Zurich, so he can provide the
further information they want, and for a decision to be made on his claim. Zurich have
declined his request as they say they want Mr L to provide an open and honest account of
the incident, which they believe can only be obtained through a further interview.
Mr L raised a complaint with Zurich which they didnt uphold. They said that theyre satisfied
with how the interview on 31 March 2021 was carried out and that all their enquiries have
been necessary and reasonable. They also asked Mr L to continue to cooperate with the
interview process so his account of the incident can be recorded.
When they replied to his complaint Zurich also told Mr L that his vehicle had been inspected
and was considered beyond economic repair.
Mr L wasnt happy with Zurichs response and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think that Zurich had been
unreasonable in wanting to complete the interview, or in refusing to provide a list of
questions for Mr L to answer. And he thought it was fair for Mr L to cooperate with
completing the interview to enable his claim to be dealt with.
Our investigator said that it was a condition of Mr Ls policy that he must give Zurich all the
help and assistance we may need and must provide us with any records, documents,
information or evidence that we require. And that before the policy conditions are listed, it
clearly states failure to comply with these conditions may result in your claim not being met.
He considered the comments that Mr Ls representative had made about him being a private
man and regarding standard questions as an intrusion but said Zurich had procedures to
follow when a claim is made, which theyd not been able to complete. And he felt it was
reasonable for these to be completed as some of the details about the theft were still
unclear.
Having reviewed the transcript of the interview of 31 March 2021 our investigator considered
the questions put to Mr L by Zurich to be reasonable and proportionate. And he didnt feel
that Mr L had fully cooperated.
While our investigator accepted that Mr L was frustrated that his claim hadnt been resolved,
he felt it was fair for him to complete the interview for the claim to be dealt with. And he said
that this would give Zurich the chance to obtain a more open and honest account of what
happened to make an informed decision on the claim.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion.
After our investigator provided their opinion, we asked Zurich if there was a recording of the
interview with Mr L from 31 March 2021. And if there is to provide us with a copy. They
didnt respond.
The case then came to me and I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. And in it I 
said: - 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy requires him to cooperate with Zurich after a claim has been made. It states: -
You must, when we request, give us a signed description of the circumstances surrounding
a loss and provide us with any records, documents, information or evidence that we require.
And You must give us all the help and assistance we may need.
Mr L agreed to be interviewed by investigators appointed by Zurich and this interview took
place on 22 January 2021. The interview took 46 minutes and the transcript is 26 pages
long. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr L didnt cooperate with that interview and
answer all the questions he was asked. Although I understand that Zurich had wanted the
interview to take place by video and Mr L only agreed to a telephone interview. I dont think
this really adds anything to my consideration of the case as many people might be
uncomfortable with a video interview.
Following this interview Zurich decided there were outstanding issues around the
circumstances of the theft of Mr Ls vehicle and a further interview was required. Its not in
dispute that Mr L wasnt happy to be interviewed further. He provided Zurich with a
statement which they felt didnt provide enough detail about the discovery that his car was
missing and that he believed the keys had been taken from his locked truck.
Mr L did eventually agree to a further interview. Zurich had wanted this to be done as a video
call, which Mr L didnt agree to. And he wanted it to be with one person. In the end it was
agreed that the interview would be by telephone with two representatives from Zurich. Mr L
describes this interview as an interrogation, and he was extremely upset about how one of
Zurichs agents spoke to him. This interview took over an hour and at that point Mr L asked
how long it was going to take as he had a meeting to attend. Shortly after this the interview
ended and Mr L was due to speak to Zurich again on 7 April 2021. But this didnt happen as
he raised a complaint.
I wanted to listen to the recording of the interview to see if Mr Ls view on how it was
conducted is correct. But Zurich havent confirmed if a recording is available. I can
understand why Mr L was frustrated by the questions put to him. From his point of view, his
expensive car has been stolen and recovered by the police, and he doesnt understand the
relevance of the questions hes being asked by Zurich. But I also understand that Zurich
believe they dont have a clear account of the circumstances of the theft, and there are stillsome questions they want to put to Mr L.
The vehicle was stolen in January 2021. Mr L, although reluctantly, has taken part in two
interviews which together took almost two hours. Zurich had the opportunity during those
interviews to put the questions they had to Mr L.
I dont accept that a further interview is the only way for Zurich to get an open and honest
account of what happened. This matter has been outstanding for some considerable time
and needs to be progressed.
Recollections fade over time and I think to be fair to Mr L and for Zurich to get the answers to
their outstanding questions, they should provide a list of questions for Mr L to answer within
a reasonable timeframe. As Zurich had prepared for a further interview on 7 April 2021 I
assume their questions can be ready to send to Mr L in 14 days, and I think it would be
reasonable for him to provide his answers within 14 days of receiving the questions.
So my provisional decision was that rather than requiring Mr L to agree to a further interview, 
Zurich should provide him with a list of their outstanding questions which he should answer 
within 14 days of receiving them.
Since I issued my provisional decision Zurich have provided a recording of the interview with 
Mr L on 31 March 2021 which Ive listened to. Theyve also made some points about the 
interview, Mr Ls co-operation with their investigation and their outstanding queries. 
In relation to the interview theyve said the following: -
When the interview was arranged Mr L was advised to allow up to two hours for the 
interview to take place.
Mr L was ten minutes late joining the interview, and after 50 minutes said he had 
another meeting and left early.
When leaving he agreed to reconvene to continue and compete the interview 
process.
Theyre not seeking a further interview, but to continue the interview process.
During the interview Mr L was rude, used foul language and challenged many of the 
questions raised, often apologising later for his behaviour. It was his conduct during 
the interview that meant it couldnt be completed succinctly and took the time that it 
did.
Theyve also said the Mr L has been reluctant to cooperate with their enquiries from the 
outset. A high value vehicle has been stolen and its reasonable for them to obtain an open, 
honest and dispassionate account from Mr L. They say Mr L knew when he spoke to their 
claims investigator that this was only to provide an initial statement. And the delays in case 
have arisen because of Mr L refusing to be interviewed. The interview was only a few weeks 
after the theft, but Mr L was unwilling to provide a detailed account when asked. He said he 
didnt know the answers to many of their questions, despite providing a detailed account to 
the police.
Zurich say that normally with a claim of this nature theyd obtain a statement from the 
policyholder in person. Due to the pandemic they couldnt do this, and a video interview was 
put forward as an alternative. Which they say Mr L initially agreed to this but changed his 
mind on the day of the interview.       Theyve also highlighted some of the concerns they have about the account Mr L has 
provided and the outstanding information they require from him.
Zurich say Mr L initially said the vehicles keys were in his possession, but later said they 
were stolen from his truck. They want an explanation of how the keys were stolen from the 
truck without any damage being caused, and how the vehicle was stolen when the police 
have said the battery was flat.
They also say they have questions about when Mr L last saw or drove the vehicle, where it 
was parked and how it was discovered to be missing. And they have concerns that Mr L was 
notified by the tracker company that there was an issue with the tracker, but he told them to 
take no further action. Then the vehicle was reported as stolen a few hours later.
Zurich accept that the vehicle was recovered by the police. But say that due to the 
inconsistencies and discrepancies in the information Mr L has provided they should be 
allowed to complete the interview process to get an open and honest account of the loss and 
an explanation of their concerns.
They acknowledge that a long time has passed since Mr L made his claim and that 
memories fade with time. And say this is why they wanted to get the relevant information as 
soon as possible. They say that being prevented from doing so is a further concern, and they 
havent been responsible for the delays.
Zurich have also said that the questions Mr L was asked during his interview were 
reasonable and proportionate, and that together with Mr Ls conduct mean that the best way 
to resolve his claim, is to continue with the interview. Which will allow them to make an 
informed decision on his claim.
Finally, they say that providing questions in writing would be impractical and wouldnt 
guarantee the issues would be satisfactorily resolved. And their experience is the answers 
given by written correspondence are likely to generate more queries and lead to potentially 
protracted correspondence.
Mr L has told us that hes been notified by the police that theyve completed their enquiries 
and the thieves are awaiting a date for their court appearance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to deal first with the delays in this case. While I accept that these have arisen because 
Mr L raised a complaint, he was entitled to do this. Its in his interest, as much as Zurichs, 
for their enquiries to be completed so a decision can be made on his claim. But I cant say 
Zurich are responsible for the delay in resolving Mr Ls claim, as I agree that theres further 
information he needs to provide about the circumstances of the theft of his vehicle.
Zurich have said that only continuing the interview, that wasnt completed on 31 March 2021, 
will provide an open an honest account of the circumstances of the theft of Mr Ls vehicle. 
I considered the interview Mr L gave to the claims investigator in my provisional decision. I 
dont agree that Mr L has been uncooperative throughout the investigation process. During 
that interview I think he answered all the questions he was asked as well as he could. Prior 
to this interview it seems Mr L wasnt aware exactly what had happened to his vehicle or that 
it had been found stripped. He was understandably quite upset to be told this. But I accept that a further interview was reasonable, as there were outstanding questions 
around the circumstances of the theft of Mr Ls vehicle. 
Having now listened to the recording of the Mr Ls interview with Zurich Im able to comment 
on what the parties have said. 
While its correct that Mr L was late joining the interview, he apologised and said hed had 
technical issues joining. So I dont accept that he intentionally joined late. Zurich refer to him 
using foul language during the interview. This was in relation to the people who stole his car 
and he apologised afterwards. I think suggesting that such language was used throughout 
the interview is misleading. 
While I accept that Mr L challenged some of the questions he was asked, I dont think he 
understood how they were all relevant to the theft of his car. And I think its fair to say that he 
was annoyed about being pressed to answer some questions, when hed already said he 
wasnt sure of the answer. He also refers to some of the questions as being patronising. But 
hes said this was the first insurance claim hed made, and I have to take into account that 
hes unlikely to be familiar with the enquiries that are necessary, when a claim is made. 
Mr L has been told that the police have completed their enquiries and a court date is 
awaited, although its not clear how long this is going to take. But we do know that the 
thieves have been identified, charged and are due to appear in court. This is progress since 
the date of the interview. But the parties knew the thieves had been caught by the police 
before the interview in March 2021 took place. So I can see why Mr L wouldnt understand 
why so many questions about the circumstances of the theft were necessary. And I dont 
think Zurich explained this as well as they could have done.
I dont think that Mr L ended the interview not intending to join the rescheduled interview. 
Given that hed already provided a statement to Zurichs claims investigator, I think it was 
reasonable for him to think the interview wouldnt take more than an hour. After the interview 
ended, he clearly reflected on it and raised his complaint. Its not either partys fault that its 
taken so long to reach this stage. 
I agree with Zurich that there are still outstanding questions that need to be answered about 
the circumstances of the theft of Mr Ls vehicle. But Im not persuaded that continuing the 
interview with Mr L is the only way for them to get this information. 
As I said in my provisional decision a considerable time has passed since the theft and this 
matter needs to be progressed. I dont agree with Zurich that providing written questions is 
impractical, they must know the questions they want to put to Mr L. Nor do I accept that 
written questions are necessarily going to lead to protracted correspondence.
So I think that Zurich should provide a list of their outstanding questions to Mr L within 14 
days, and he should provide clear answers to these within 14 days of receipt. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ls complaint about Zurich Insurance PLC.
And to put things right I require them to provide a list of their outstanding questions to Mr L 
within 14 days, and Mr L to provide clear answers to these within 14 days of receipt.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman