Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 2007. Mr M says Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Yorkshire Building Society had to make it clear to Mr M that he had a 
choice about it. But Mr M says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Yorkshire Building Society has sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter for Mr Ms 
mortgage. This included a section on insurance which said Mr M was not obliged to take out 
any insurance through Yorkshire Building Society and only had to take out buildings 
insurance as a condition of the mortgage.
Yorkshire Building Society has also sent us a copy of a PPI statement of fact which shows 
the benefit of the policy and that Mr M had selected one of three possible types of cover. 
And its sent us a PPI illustration which shows the cost of the PPI and that it is optional.
Based on the evidence I have, I think Yorkshire Building Society did make it clear to Mr M 
that he had a choice about the PPI.
I havent seen clear evidence that Yorkshire Building Society gave Mr M any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont think it recommend it to him. This means Yorkshire Building 
Society didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr M. But it did have to make sure he got 
the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Yorkshire Building Society gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The 
policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr M told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. 
And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his savings to make his mortgage 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr Ms property couldve been at 
risk if hed failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the 
DRN-1105034policy offered appealing. And the cost of the policy was relatively low. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Yorkshire Building Society needs to give Mr M some of the 
commission he paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ms 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Yorkshire Building Society doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman