DRN-3332382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that esure Insurance Limited declined their claim when personal 
possessions were stolen from their locked car. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have household buildings and contents insurance with esure. Their policy 
provides cover for the theft of personal possessions from a locked motor vehicle up to a 
value of £750, subject to a £125 policy excess.
In June 2021 while driving home from holiday Mr and Mrs M stopped at a motorway service 
station, locked the car, and went in for a coffee. When they returned the car was still locked 
and even though there was no evidence it had been broken into, clothes, suitcases, a games 
device and two tablets had been stolen from the car boot.
Mr and Mrs M reported the theft to the police and contacted esure to make a claim on their 
household policy on 22 June 2021. esure declined the claim as they said the policy didnt 
cover theft from a vehicle unless force and violence had been used to break into it. Mr and 
Mrs M dont think this is fair as they say nowadays thieves can steal cars, and items from 
them, without using force and violence.
Mr and Mrs M complained to esure who confirmed that they accepted their car had been 
locked but maintained their decision to decline the claim. They said Mr and Mrs Ms policy 
clearly set out that theft from a locked vehicle was only covered if force and violence had 
been used to gain access. And Mr and Mrs M had agreed to accept the policy terms and 
conditions when they took out their policy.
esure were prepared to accept that force was used to gain entry to the car, but said there 
was no evidence of any damage, and as there was no evidence of violence, the policy didnt 
cover their loss.
Mr and Mrs M complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said the 
policy clearly set out that it only covered theft from a locked vehicle if there was evidence of 
force and violence having been used. He accepted that, however the thieves had gained 
entry, there was evidence of force having been used. As they gained entry to the locked 
vehicle without Mr and Mrs Ms consent. But he agreed with esure that there was no 
evidence of violence, as the policy term required. So he accepted that esure had correctly 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy confirms that they have cover for personal possessions away from 
their home, up to the policy limit shown on their schedule and subject to the general 
exclusions which apply to their policy. Their policy schedule confirms cover for personal 
possessions in a locked motor vehicle up to £750, with an excess of £125.
Details of the cover are set out on page 27 of the policy and refer the policyholder to the 
General exclusions for details of what is not covered. The general exclusion relevant to Mr 
and Mrs Ms claim is set out on page 31 of the policy. It says: -
We will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting from or consisting of 
Theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless the items are hidden from 
view in the boot, or closed glove compartment, all windows are closed, and all doors are 
locked which was broken into using force and violence.
Such an exclusion can be found in many household policies across the market, and its 
intention is to ensure the insurer only has to pay claims where the policyholders vehicle has 
been obviously broken into. Once the policyholder has shown that a theft occurred, its up to 
the insurer to show the exclusion applies which will allow them to decline the claim.
We consider such an exclusion to be a significant term and wed expect it to be brought to 
the attention of the policyholder. I think the exclusion was brought to Mr and Mrs Ms 
attention. They were aware that they had cover for personal possessions away from their 
home and the section of their policy setting out this cover, refers them to the exclusion which 
applies to such claims.
In this case esure accept that force was used to gain entry to Mr and Mrs Ms vehicle. But 
they say there was no damage caused, so theres no evidence of violence which is also 
required for cover to be provided. 
We can speculate about how the thieves gained entry to the vehicle, but we dont know how 
they did. Mr M has said that the policy terms and conditions are out of date, as its well 
known that thieves can gain entry to locked vehicles by overcoming the security systems. 
But theres no evidence here that this is what happened. And in the absence of such 
evidence Im persuaded that esure have declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of their policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint about esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman