DRN-4045562
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax sent her ex-husband a text 
message stating the amount of her first mortgage payment.
What happened
Miss B and her ex-husband had a mortgage with Halifax. As part of the divorce settlement 
the property was transferred to Miss B in her sole name, and she was solely responsible for 
the mortgage. But Halifax texted her husband who was no longer a party to the mortgage 
with details of the first payment on the new mortgage and when it would be collected. Miss B 
says that for many years she suffered physical, verbal, and emotional abuse from her ex-
husband. She began divorce proceedings in January 2022 and has been able to keep the 
former matrimonial home and when it was transferred to her, she was able to shut the door 
knowing the house was now hers. Miss B feels that the freedom she should now feel has 
been completely overshadowed by this disclosure and that her husband has expressed his 
anger as he knows that Miss Bs outgoings are less than his because of the data breach.
Halifax apologised for not correcting its records when the transfer had occurred and 
confirmed that the only account number linked to this account it held was now Miss Bs. 
Halifax also offered £500 by way of compensation. Our investigator recommended that this 
complaint should be upheld as she felt that Halifax underestimated the level of 
compensation she should receive. She recommended compensation of £750. Miss B 
disagrees saying in summary that there was a recent violent incident requiring police 
intervention owing to her ex-husbands anger surrounding her financial position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B seems to be in a very difficult position with her ex-husband and I can only wish for 
her and her family that she gets the safety in her home that she seeks. My role is to assess 
what compensation is due Miss B for this data breach. 
There are two limbs to this complaint. Firstly, the breach of trust that would have affected 
Miss Bs expectation that her data would be kept safe and of course the possibility that this 
could happen again. This type of breach would affect Miss Bs confidence in the security of 
her data given that sensitive financial information is being passed to the person she least 
wanted it passed to and who is prepared to use it in his ongoing abuse of her. As there was 
originally a joint account, her ex-husbands phone number was on file and Halifax seems not 
to have been removed it from the system when she took out a sole mortgage. Of course, the 
breach shouldnt have happened, but Halifax has explained how it arose, apologised, and 
removed her ex-husbands number from the file. Given that, Halifax seems to have taken the 
measures we would expect it to take and to give Miss B confidence that it shouldnt happen 
in the future.
The other issue is the content of the data breach which gave her ex-husband an insight into 
her financial affairs that he has been able to use against her. But Miss Bs ex-husband, I 
expect, has already got a lot of information about her financial situation. A divorce involves 
mutual discovery of each partys financial situation. So, as this divorce was quite recent, both 
parties will have detailed information about each others financial situation and a further 
disclosure - the monthly amount that Miss B is paying for her mortgage  has to be seen in 
this context. If Miss Bs ex-husband is incensed that she is better off financially than him, its 
likely that this is related to the financial outcome of the divorce rather than the disclosure of 
how much she is paying for the mortgage. I appreciate that this is information for her ex-
husband that he shouldnt have got but he will already have substantial information about 
her financial affairs because of the nature of the divorce process. 
My role is to assess the level of damages appropriate to this breach. As set out above I dont 
consider that this breach, by itself, would be likely to have the long-term impact or other 
features that would lead to a higher award than suggested by our investigator. I agree with 
our investigator that this would have caused Miss B considerable distress, upset, and worry 
and of itself have a serious but short -term impact. I believe that the amount suggested by 
our investigator of £750, as opposed to the £500 initially suggested by Halifax, is fair 
compensation for that. So, on that basis I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax should pay Miss B compensation of £750.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman