DRN-2430581
The complaint
Miss K has complained about delay and poor service by Optimum Credit Limited during the 
course of an application for further borrowing. To put things right, Miss K would like Optimum 
to compensate her for the trouble to which she has been put and remove credit searches 
against her name.
What happened
Miss K has a second charge secured loan with Optimum, taken out in July 2018 for debt 
consolidation. In October 2019 Miss K wanted to borrow £70,500 to consolidate unsecured 
debt and so contacted Optimum again. A fact-find and application call took place on 
30 October 2019. This showed Miss K had a first charge mortgage on her property, with a 
lender I will call BB. The outstanding balance was approximately £48,000.
 
Optimums underwriters approved the application, with a caveat that no future further 
advances would be considered, in order to avoid Miss K falling into a cycle of constant debt 
consolidation. At the end of November 2019 Optimum tried to contact Miss K to see if she 
still wished to proceed, but Optimum has told us Miss K didnt respond until March 2020.
On 10 March 2020 Miss K said she wanted to go ahead with the loan, but as more than 
three months had passed, a new application needed to be processed. This was carried out 
on 16 March 2020, and supporting documentation was requested from Miss K. No 
information was given by Miss K about childcare costs during this call, nor did she enter any 
childcare expenses on the income and expenditure form which Miss K signed as being 
accurate. A decision in principle was made that the application could proceed and a 
valuation was booked.
As requested by Optimum, Miss K provided further information about her financial position, 
including a letter from HMRC about her tax credits award for 2019/2020.
On 25 March 2020 Optimum noted that the current first charge mortgage balance was 
around £48,000, which was substantially lower than the figure Miss K had given when she 
took out the original second charge with Optimum in 2018. This was queried with BB, which 
explained to Optimum that the first charge mortgage had a flexible reserve. So although the 
current balance was approximately £48,000, the maximum credit limit on the account was 
just over £71,000.
The effect of this was that this affected the loan-to-value ratio for the second charge 
application, and so Optimum had to decline the application. Optimum explained to Miss K 
that she could ask BB to reduce her flexible reserve so that the Optimum loan could go 
ahead. Miss K was unhappy that shed not been told about this sooner. Miss K pointed out to 
Optimum that it had the information about her mortgage with BB on file already from 2018, 
so she felt her time had been wasted.
Optimum agreed that it should have identified this sooner, and offered Miss K £50 
compensation. But Optimum stood by its decision to decline the application.
In June 2020 Miss K told Optimum that she was contacting BB to reduce her maximum 
credit limit so she could go ahead with the application for the Optimum loan. Due to the time 
that had passed, Optimum had to carry out a new credit search. Miss K was unhappy about 
this and complained to Optimum, as she felt she was being penalised for matters beyond her 
control.
When the application was reconsidered, the underwriters noted childcare costs noted on a 
letter from HMRC about Miss Ks tax credits, which hadnt been included in the previous 
application from March 2020. Unfortunately this affected affordability of the new loan, and so 
Optimum declined the application. 
Optimum didnt uphold the complaint about the credit search, saying this was a requirement 
for the application to proceed. But It offered compensation of £150 for not recognising 
sooner that it should have identified the issue with childcare costs. Again, Optimum stood by 
its decision to decline the application on the basis of affordability.
Miss K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She is unhappy that there was a 
second credit search carried out by Optimum, which Miss K says has impacted her credit 
file. She would like this removed, as Miss K says she will struggle to get credit from another 
lender due to her credit score and this application being declined.
An investigator looked at the complaint. Overall, although he accepted Optimum could have 
done better, he was satisfied that the total compensation offered of £200 for trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator thought that Optimums decision to decline the application and was fair in all 
the circumstances. He explained to Miss K that Optimum has clarified that the credit check 
carried out was a soft check and so shouldnt affect her credit file, but if Miss K had 
evidence that her credit file had been impacted, she could send this in and hed look at the 
case again.
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators findings. Shes made some further points, which I 
summarise below:
the level of compensation offered isnt adequate, and should reflect the long-term impact 
these events have had on her;
if Optimum had told her sooner that they were unable to offer her anything, then shed 
have had the opportunity to apply elsewhere, but shes now lost that opportunity because 
all lenders have now tightened their lending criteria and shes been unable to secure a 
loan elsewhere;
as a result of Optimums failings, she still has outstanding debt which is being paid at the 
higher rates of interest charged on credit cards;
if she had been offered the loan, her monthly outgoings would have reduced 
considerably, easing her financial constraints.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss K has also raised a complaint against BB, and that an offer of 
compensation has been made. The complaint I am reviewing is only against Optimum, and 
so I wont be commenting on any aspect of the complaint against BB.
Optimum has acknowledged that it made mistakes, and its offered compensation totalling 
£200. Because its not in dispute that Optimum could have handled matters better, I dont 
need to establish who was at fault. All I need to decide is whether or not the compensation is 
fair and reasonable.
I agree that Optimum should have realised in October 2019 that the information Miss K had 
given about her outstanding mortgage with BB didnt match what had been recorded in July 
2018. This didnt come to light until Miss K renewed her application in March 2020. I think 
the compensation of £50 offered for this oversight is fair and reasonable. 
Optimum has also accepted that it had received the HMRC letter about tax credits which 
contained the childcare costs on 18 March 2020 but hadnt reviewed that information at the 
time, because the application was declined due to the issue about the mortgage reserve with 
BB, which affected the amount Optimum was able to lend.
It wasnt until Miss K had resolved the mortgage reserve issue with BB in June 2020 that the 
underwriters looked at the financial information in detail, at which point it was identified that 
Miss K had childcare costs which affected affordability.
So although I acknowledge that Miss K had provided that information in March 2020, I can 
see that there were reasons why it wasnt reviewed until June 2020. I think the £150 
compensation offered by Optimum for the disappointment caused to Miss K is fair and 
reasonable. I think if it had looked at this in March 2020, Miss K could have been told there 
and then that the loan she wanted wasnt affordable. 
I appreciate that Miss K was hopeful that, once shed resolved the issue about her mortgage 
reserve with BB, the application would have gone ahead. But Optimum was still required to 
assess affordability of the loan. Miss Ks circumstances might have changed, so Optimum 
was right to consider the issue of affordability at the point where the application looked as if it 
was going ahead.
Miss K hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that the credit searches carried out by 
Optimum have resulted in applications for credit to other lenders being declined. Rather, 
Miss K is now arguing that lenders have tightened their lending criteria and so shes unable 
to qualify for a loan elsewhere. 
Miss K also says that if Optimum had granted the loan, she wouldnt now be paying high 
interest rates on her credit cards. But Optimum explained to Miss K its reasons for declining 
the loan on the basis of affordability, and this is a decision its entitled to reach. 
If Miss K is in financial difficulty, she might find it helpful to contact one of the free debt 
advisory services such as Citizens Advice or StepChange. We can provide Miss K with 
details of those organisations, if shed like us to.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss K was hoping for, but Im satisfied that the compensation 
offered by Optimum is fair and reasonable and so Im not going to award any further redress 
or order Optimum to make any changes to Miss Ks credit file.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation offered by Optimum Credit Limited  a total of £200  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I simply leave it to Miss K to decide if she wants to accept it in full and 
final settlement of her complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman