DRN-3572518
The complaint
Ms O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt credit her account with all the 
money she paid in or explain online payments she didnt recognise.
What happened
Ms O went to a branch of NatWest on 28 July 2020. She says she had £1,000 in cash and 
wanted £500 to be paid into her current account and £500 into her savings account. She 
says she later noticed that she had only received £290 to her current account. She also 
disputes previously making online payments from her account.
NatWest said that the branch manager had made checks about the credit. The till had been 
£1.45 short that day. The transaction was shown on CCTV to take two minutes and it would 
have taken longer to count this amount of money and also make a separate credit to the 
savings account. The CCTV showed the money being counted in her presence. There was 
no receipt showing £1,000 was credited and she hadnt raised this dispute for a month. Her 
paying in book had been completed by the cashier and stamped to show a deposit of £290. 
Ms O had indicated she had withdrawn the money paid in the day before from a different 
financial business and which was £300 from a cash machine and £700 at the counter. It had 
asked her if it could be possible she still had the £700. It said that the online payments     
Ms O referred to at other times were made in branch and would have required her 
verification.
NatWest didnt accept that the branch manager had been abusive to Ms O as she claimed 
but said that police were called on one occasion due to Ms Os behaviour. It had paid her 
£30 for giving an incorrect phone number to report the dispute to the fraud team. Since the 
complaint had been referred to this service it had also offered to pay her £150 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms O had said that the 
money was all in £50 notes, she handed this to the cashier and didnt see anything 
suspicious. A search on the branch system had been made for transactions for £1,000 and 
£500 to see if any funds were credited to the wrong account but nothing was found. And the 
difference in the till balance couldnt account for Ms Os money. The CCTV was no longer 
available. He accepted that Ms O had normally paid in larger amounts of cash and in round 
amounts. The deposit withdrawal slip she had provided related to a cash withdrawal on 29 
June 2020 and didnt assist.
He noted that Ms O now accepted other payments were made correctly apart from one still 
disputed and marked as an investment. He stated that this was a payment originated in 
branch on 13 September 2018 for £300. It could only have been completed with Ms Os 
details and there was nothing to suggest that her card and PIN had been compromised.
Ms O didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
that she didnt at any time give NatWest or this service a copy of the mini statement showing 
the withdrawal the day before the deposit. So, she wondered where wed got the one from 
29 June 2020 and said that this must be a fake. On the day she deposited the money she 
was in a hurry and trusted the cashier to have entered the correct amount. She couldnt 
understand why we hadnt insisted on seeing the CCTV as this is where she said the truth 
lies. There should be further investigation into the payment of £300 and what this was for. If 
this cant be established then this money together with £710 must be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution. I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely. I know that at one-point Ms O had 
been in contact with police herself about an allegation of fraud. And if she doesnt accept my 
decision she remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
I have through our adjudicator confirmed with NatWest that there is no more evidence 
available. The CCTV wasnt retained, and I can understand why having not been allowed to 
view it herself this is very frustrating for Ms O. I treat what it is said that this shows with some 
caution. And I also dont have anything to show relevant branch processes and to support 
how long a transaction like this might have taken.
I dont doubt that Ms O has brought this complaint in good faith and genuinely believes she 
paid in a more significant amount that day, as she had before, and that her money has gone 
missing. The confusion about the withdrawal of 29 June 2020 came from her own evidence 
as she had provided this withdrawal receipt from her savings account at NatWest for that 
day. I havent seen any statement or entry from her account at a different financial business 
on 27 July 2020 although she says she showed something to NatWest. Again, I dont have 
any reason to doubt that she did make such a withdrawal and I note from general entries on 
her NatWest accounts that she had substantial amounts of money available to her.
Ms O has explained that she didnt check the paying in book at the time and didnt get a 
receipt. She refers to first noticing what happened on 26 August 2020 when she made a 
cash machine withdrawal for £100. I note as she does that there was also a prior cash 
machine withdrawal on 10 August 2020. She describes going to a branch on the day after 
she noticed and on subsequent occasions and being dissatisfied with the outcome and 
service.
It's not impossible that a branch error was made. It does seem that in response to her 
dispute and complaint NatWest made appropriate checks. I wouldnt expect the cashier 
involved to remember the transaction a number of weeks later. It is disappointing that some 
of this evidence hasnt been retained given that Ms O escalated her complaint. And 
NatWests general retention policy means that it is no longer available. But I cant use that in 
itself, as Ms O wants me to, as evidence of wrongdoing. I face the difficult task of deciding 
what I think was most likely based on what Ms O and NatWest have been able to provide. I 
also read nothing into NatWest offering £150 as a gesture of goodwill  it seems it wanted to 
try and settle things and to reflect her experience including in branch about this issue. And I 
also can see why Ms O, who believes she lost £710, wouldnt accept that either.
Having balanced all the information I dont find it most likely that NatWest made a mistake. In 
coming to this view, I rely on the till balancing schedule and the paying in book receipt. As I 
say I place little weight on whats been said about CCTV or processing times - only noting 
evidence of a review of that material by NatWest. I also find it most likely that Ms O was 
genuinely mistaken about what happened that day. 
Ive also looked at the disputed payment for £300. This was marked BSP on her statement which stands for branch single payment. And it would need to have been authenticated with 
Ms Os card and either her PIN or a signature based on information about its processes 
NatWest has provided. Ive seen nothing to support that her details were compromised or 
used without Ms Os authorisation. And I wouldnt expect NatWest to have more information 
now about a payment made in this way in 2018. It was shown on Ms Os bank statement at 
the time. So, I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to refund this money.
I appreciate Ms O will be very disappointed by the outcome here. As NatWest has offered 
through this service to pay her a further £150 I will include this as reasonable in my decision.
My final decision
NatWest has made an offer to settle this complaint which I consider to be reasonable. So, 
my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Ms O a further £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman