DRN-3816707
The complaint
Mr J complains that Phoenix Life Limited (at the time Royal & Sun Alliance) failed to advise
him that his employers occupational pension scheme was contracted out of the State
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). He also thought he had a separate pension
pot which Phoenix Life hadnt made him aware of.
For ease, Ill refer to Royal & Sun Alliance as Phoenix Life within this decision.
What happened
Mr J was advised by Phoenix Life to contribute to a personal pension plan, instead of his
employers occupational pension scheme.
In October 1994, the regulator at the time set up a review known as the Pension Review.
This was to address concerns about the possible mis-selling of personal pensions between
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.
In 2002, Phoenix Life carried out a Pension Review for Mr J. It concluded that he had been
disadvantaged by its advice to contribute to a personal pension instead of his employers
scheme. It calculated the amount of redress due to be £11,382.24.
Initially, Phoenix Life offered to increase Mr Js pension benefits by purchasing units in a
new pension policy, which would run alongside the existing policies held with it. However,
Mr J made Phoenix Life aware that he had become a member of his employers pension
scheme on 10 December 2001. Phoenix Life therefore offered to reinstate his lost
pensionable service in his employers pension scheme from 2 April 1995 to 10 December
2001. Mr J accepted this offer.
In 2021, Mr J complained to Phoenix Life. He said he had obtained a forecast of his state
pension and had large gaps where he hadnt paid National Insurance contributions. He said 
this was because he had been contracted out of SERPS, and had also had occasions when
he hadnt worked.
Mr J said that Phoenix Life had advised him to join his employers pension scheme in 2001
but had failed to tell him that the scheme had opted out of SERPS. Mr J also said he knew
he had contracted out of SERPS previously, but didnt know what this meant.
Mr J explained that his state pension had a weekly shortfall of £22.99, and he would need to
pay a lump sum to make up the missed National Insurance contributions. He also said the
government had advised him that he had a Contracted-out Pension Equivalent (COPE) of
£52 per week and he wanted to know what had happened to this.
Phoenix Life said it had carried out the Pensions Review in line with the guidelines set by the
regulator. It said it would expect there to be a significant reduction to Mr Js state pension
benefits because of the effect of the other pension arrangements which had replaced
SERPS.
Mr J brought a complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt recommend the complaint
be upheld.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2022. Heres what I said:
Pensions Review
Mr J says that Phoenix Life advised him to join his employers pension scheme in 2001, but
failed to advise him that the scheme had contracted out of SERPS. I havent seen any
evidence of this. Phoenix Life says that when it carried out the Pensions Review in 2002,
Mr J told it that he had already joined his employers pension scheme on 10 December
2001.
Ive therefore only considered what happened when Phoenix Life took action to put things
right in 2002. The guidance from the regulator at the time of the Pensions Review was that
reinstatement into an occupational pension scheme was the preferred course of action. This
was the case regardless of whether the occupational pension scheme was contracted into or
out of SERPS.
Im satisfied it was therefore appropriate for Phoenix Life to buy back the lost pensionable
service into Mr Js employers occupational pension scheme.
SERPS
Mr J says he was aware he had contracted out of SERPS previously, but he didnt know
what this meant. Mr J thinks he has a separate COPE pension which has disappeared.
Phoenix Life has confirmed that Mr J was contracted out of SERPS from 6 April 1987 to 1
April 1995 through a personal pension policy (ending 237). In other words, some of Mr Js
National Insurance contributions were paid into this personal pension instead of his
additional state pension. Phoenix Life has confirmed that the policy ending 237 and another
of Mr Js personal pension policies (ending 236) were later merged into one policy (ending
001).
Phoenix Life has also explained that Mr J drew retirement benefits from the pension policy
ending 001 at age 55 by way of a tax-free lump sum of £8,961.56. He also bought an annuity 
which provides him with a monthly payment of £119.94 before tax. So this is where some of 
Mr Js SERPS pension went. Mr J was able to take the contracted-out pension earlier than 
his state pension age of 66, and he did so.
I understand that the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) provided Mr J with a state
pension forecast. He says this included a COPE amount of £52 per week.
I havent seen Mr Js state pension forecast. Though as Phoenix Life has pointed out, it
would be expected that contracting out of SERPS would impact Mr Js state pension forecast
(though this could also have been impacted by any periods when Mr J wasnt working).
However, the pension Mr J has received/will receive from his previous personal pension
ending 237 and his employers occupational pension scheme should include an amount that,
in most cases, will be the equivalent of the additional state pension he would have received
if he hadnt contracted out of SERPS. This is the COPE estimate of £52 per week. It is
therefore not a separate pension being held by Phoenix Life.
I dont know whether the amount Mr J has received under his employers occupational
pension scheme and his personal pension ending 237 equals the COPE estimate of £52 perweek. Though the value of the personal pension ending 237 is complicated by the fact this
was merged with another of Mr Js personal pensions. But this is where Mr Js equivalent to
what would have been in his SERPS pension went, and so it has not been lost.
Even if the amount Mr J has received/will receive from those two schemes doesnt equal the
COPE estimate, I dont require Phoenix Life to take any action. I say that because it has
already carried out a Pensions Review of the advice Mr J received to take out his personal
pension rather than join his occupational scheme. It took appropriate action to put matters
right according to the regulators guidelines at the time. Also, Phoenix Life wasnt
responsible for the decision taken by Mr Js former employer to contract out of SERPS under
the occupational scheme.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Phoenix Life didnt provide any further comments. 
Mr J responded with the following main points:
He said neither I nor Phoenix Life have explained what happened to his COPE.
He said he only found out last year that his occupational pension scheme was 
contracted out of SERPS, and Phoenix Life did not tell him this.
He asked several times where his COPE is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, COPE is not a separate pension. COPE is an 
estimate of the amount that Mr J should have received from his workplace pension and 
personal pension for the time he was contracted out of SERPS. In other words, it is the 
equivalent of the additional state pension he would have received, if he hadnt contracted out 
of SERPS. 
Mr J was contracted out from SERPS through his workplace pension as well as his personal 
pension with Phoenix Life ending 237. I dont know whether Mr J received/will receive £52 a 
week (which was his COPE estimate) from these policies as a result of contracting out. 
Though as I said in my provisional decision, even if he didnt receive this amount, I dont 
require Phoenix Life to take any action. 
Whilst Phoenix Life did advise Mr J to take out a personal pension rather than join his 
employers occupational pension scheme, it has carried out a Pensions Review of that 
advice and put matters right. 
Phoenix Life was not responsible for Mr Js employers decision to contract out of SERPS. 
Although Mr J says he only recently found out that his workplace pension was contracted out 
of SERPS, it was not Phoenix Lifes responsibility to make him aware of this. Mr J had 
already taken the decision to join his employers pension scheme before Phoenix Life carried 
out the Pensions Review. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied it was appropriate for Phoenix Life to 
offer to buy back the lost pensionable service into Mr Js workplace pension, regardless of 
this scheme being contracted out of SERPS. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman