DRN-3389768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in 2009 
by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) and they were not told when an important 
change was made later to the product.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P say that NatWest advised them to open the AGA to get a better rate on a 
mortgage, and they did not want or need the AGA. 
They say that theyre not sure if NatWest did give them a preferred rate on their mortgage 
because of the AGA. 
And they say that they were not informed when the benefit of preferential interest rates on 
mortgages was removed from the product.
Nat West says that it did not provide advice on the AGA sale. It says it provided information 
to Mr and Mrs P and they chose to open the AGA based on it.
Nat West says it believes it did apply the discount to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage; and it did 
inform Mr and Mrs P when the preferential interest rates on mortgages benefit was removed 
from the product in 2013.
I was not in the discussion between NatWest and Mr and Mrs P in 2009, so I cant know 
what was said. I can only look at the evidence available today to make my decision.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs P had previously had a fee free account, and that Mrs 
and Mrs P knew they had a choice and chose to take out the AGA based on the 
conversation that took place.
Ive not seen any evidence such as a suitability check of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances to 
show that advice was given. And this service is aware that NatWest sales were generally 
non-advised at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale, and NatWest was only 
required to provide Mr and Mrs P with enough information about the AGA to make an 
informed decision.
And I think its more likely than not that it did. I say this because both parties agree there was 
a conversation during the sale, and I think its likely that NatWest told Mr and Mrs P a lot 
about the AGA as it was trying to sell it to them. The key benefits appear on the application 
form they signed. And NatWest has provided evidence that it sent Mr and Mrs P a welcome 
pack with information about the product straight after the sale. 
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps testimony that they only opened the AGA to get a 
better mortgage rate. And while I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think its more likely 
than not that their memory is mistaken, and they chose it for wider reasons.
I say this because the AGA benefits also included travel insurance, car breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, extended warranty cover, purchase protection, discounts and an 
interest free portion of an overdraft, many of which Mr and Mrs P were in a position to use if 
they chose to.
I accept that Mr and Mrs P found the mortgage rate proposition particularly attractive, but 
they opened the AGA over a full year before they took out their mortgage. And I think its 
unlikely theyd have been happy paying for nothing during this time. And during this period 
and later they enquired about and used other benefits.
So, I think its more likely than not that NatWest didnt do anything wrong in the 2009 sale.
On Mr and Mrs Ps other complaint points, NatWest does not have records to show whether 
it gave Mr and Mrs P a preferred rate on their mortgage in 2010, as its some time ago and 
theyre only required to keep records for 6 years. But if the mortgage rate was a main reason 
why Mr and Mrs P took out and paid for the AGA, I think its more likely than not they would 
have checked at the time. And in the absence of any other evidence, I think its more likely 
than not that they did.
Also, NatWest has provided a copy of the notification it sent out to all customers about 
changes to terms and conditions of the AGA in 2013. This includes notification of the 
removal of the preferential rates for lending including mortgages. So, I dont think NatWest 
did anything wrong in that matter.
So, although I know Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, I do not uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman