DRN-2253090
The complaint
Ms P complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) provided incorrect 
information during a telephone conversation.
What happened
Ms P was expecting a transaction to be refunded to her to her account by a third party. She 
called M&S on 31 May 2020 to enquire about it how the refund would be credited as she had 
been issued with a new card since undertaking the initial transaction. 
But Ms P says that the representative provided incorrect information which caused her some 
confusion and stress. She says the representative eventually conceded that wrong 
information had been given. But she feels this mistake shouldnt have been made in the first 
place.
M&S acknowledged that its representative could have much clearer than they were. It 
apologised and credited Ms Ps account with £10 to recognise the upset caused. But Ms P 
doesnt think that went far enough. And she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that M&S offer was fair. Ms P didnt accept this and so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know 
Ms P will be disappointed with this as I can see how strongly she feels about her complaint. 
So, Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, mistakes can happen. But when something has gone wrong, not all 
complaints warrant a monetary award for compensation  for example, when things are put 
right quickly. And compensation awards  when made, arent intended to fine or punish a 
business but to make good any financial loss and/or to recognise any material distress and 
inconvenience that has been caused. 
M&S has now confirmed that its system would normally automatically direct refunds made to 
expired cards. Or, when that doesnt happen, the refund goes to a suspense account and is 
then manually transferred. It says the manual process takes around five working days. And it 
seems that this is what happened here - M&S have provided a screenshot showing the 
refund credit to Ms Ps account on 5 June 2020. 
But Ive listened to the call recording, and I accept M&S was wrong to tell Ms P in the first 
instance that she needed to raise a dispute with the third party in order to get her transaction 
refunded. So, I do acknowledge the frustration felt by her. But M&S has also acknowledged 
this  it has apologised and paid Ms P £10 for the upset caused. So, Ive thought carefully 
about whether a further compensation payment is due.
But from the conversation that happened, it seems Ms P immediately knew the information 
was incorrect and corrected M&S representative. And, ultimately, by the end of call the 
correct process had been confirmed. So, Ms P didnt act on the incorrect information or 
suffer a financial loss as a result. And as mentioned above, the funds were located in a 
suspense account and paid to Ms Ps account within the usual timescales.
Taking this all into account, I consider the apology and the payment of £10 to be fair and 
reasonable. So, I wont be asking M&S to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
I can see that Ms P has raised other issues with M&S and received compensation payments 
as a result. But, for clarity, this decision only relates to the matter set out above and I make 
no finding in this decision on any other issues raised with M&S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms P complaint  in the sense that the apology and 
the £10 payment made by Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman