DRN-2877265
The complaint
Mr E complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to inform 
him of the 28-day notice period required to surrender his investment bond. Mr E is also 
unhappy with Prudentials customer service including the time he spent on hold when he 
called them. 
What happened
Mr E had an investment bond with Prudential that was transferred solely to him after his 
uncle passed away. The deed of assignment was completed in October 2018. 
Mr E has told us that he decided to surrender following the impact to the financial market as 
a result of the global pandemic. He says he made phone calls to Prudential but wasnt 
initially told that he needed to provide 28 days notice. He says it was only made clear during 
the second phone call. He has told us that he would have sought to surrender the bond 
sooner had he known. Therefore, when the bond was surrendered, he received around £935 
less than he expected. 
Mr E raised a complaint and Prudential responded in November 2020. They partly upheld 
the complaint accepting that ideally he could have been sent the policy documentation at the 
time the bond was assigned. They apologised for this and arranged a payment of £200. 
However, they said he was aware of the notice period prior to the withdrawal request being 
completed. Also, that he was aware the value wasnt guaranteed. Therefore, they felt he was 
informed prior to withdrawing the funds and ultimately it was his decision to do so. 
Prudential also responded to Mr Es concerns in January 2021. They offered a further £200 
in light of the concerns Mr E raised about their customer service. This included being left on 
hold when he tried to call them and mistakes with the spelling of Mr Es name. In total 
Prudential paid Mr E £400.  
Mr E remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that the 
compensation of £400 already paid to Mr E was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances and didnt feel it was appropriate to ask them to do anything further. Mr E 
didnt accept the investigators view. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the key features document outlining the key terms of the investment plan. I can 
see Prudential explained that funds could be withdrawn at any time with 28 days notice. In 
response to the view, Mr E has said his uncle kept everything and he went through the 
information. However, he says he never saw this and doesnt agree they were informed. 
Ive reviewed a copy of the illustration of the plan which was issued on 3 April 2009. 
Prudential referred to the key features document in the illustration. Also, Prudential have a 
regulatory obligation to provide this information. For these reasons and on balance, Im 
persuaded its likely that the key features document was sent at the time the investment 
bond was sold. Ive noted Mr Es comments about his uncles record keeping. But because 
of the time which has passed it isnt enough for me to be able to say Prudential failed to 
provide this information at the point of sale. 
Mr E also feels strongly that the terms should have been sent to him when the bond was 
assigned in October 2018. Ive seen a copy of Prudentials letter to Mr E and I can see they 
confirmed they had updated their records. They also confirmed they wouldnt issue revised 
policy documents. Im not persuaded they did anything wrong here because they had 
already sought to fulfil their regulatory obligations by providing it at the point of sale. 
Also, I note Prudential invited Mr E to contact them if he had any questions. Therefore, if he 
wanted more information, he could have requested a copy of the policy documents at this 
time. Ive seen Prudential dealt with Mr Es other requests for information, so its likely they 
would have provided this had it been requested. Nevertheless, Prudential have accepted 
that ideally they could have sent it when the bond was assigned. And I agree that this would 
have been helpful.
Mr E called Prudential to request information about the bond. Prudential wrote to him on 12 
March 2020 setting out the value of the bond as of 11 March. Following this, Mr E called 
them to confirm he wanted to surrender the bond. Ive reviewed the call notes and I can see 
they explained that the value was not guaranteed and may change on a daily basis. 
Mr E has also told us that during the second phone call, when he called to surrender the 
bond, he was informed of the notice period. Therefore, Im content it was Mr Es decision to 
surrender the bond in the knowledge that the value wasnt guaranteed and that there was a 
28-day notice period.  
Prudential also wrote to him on 16 March 2020 and confirmed the notice period and the date 
when they would deal with Mr Es request to surrender. I can see the bond was surrendered 
on 15 April. And Im satisfied this was reasonable as Prudential acted in line with the terms 
set out in their key features document.  
I appreciate Mr E feels strongly that he has suffered a financial loss because he says he 
would have provided instructions to surrender the bond sooner and at a higher value if he 
had known about the notice period. However, in the circumstances he still wouldnt have 
been in a position to receive the value as of the 11 March 2020. This is because he would 
have had to give instructions 28 days earlier. But he has told us that the impact of the global 
pandemic prompted his decision to withdraw funds. And as the global pandemic was an 
unforeseeable event, I cant say he would have provided his instructions sooner even if he 
had been aware of the notice period.  
Additionally, when he did instruct Prudential to surrender the bond, he knew that there was a 
28-day notice period. He also understood the value could change daily so he wasnt 
guaranteed to obtain the value as of 11 March 2020. As Mr E provided his instructions fully 
informed and it was ultimately his decision to withdraw the funds, Im not persuaded 
Prudential have caused him a financial loss. 
Ive also considered Mr Es concerns about the customer service. Prudential have accepted 
that they didnt question the misspelling of Mr Es name and this could have been corrected. 
Theyve also accepted that there have been long call waiting times since the start of the pandemic due to various technical and logistical issues. Having considered this, I appreciate 
Mr E would have been inconvenienced here. 
Overall, Prudential have accepted that ideally they could have provided policy documents 
when the bond was assigned. Theyve also acknowledged Mr Es concerns about the 
service they provided. As a result, they paid him a total of £400 in compensation. Im content 
this is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. This is because it appropriately 
recognises the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr E. Therefore, I wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Ltd paid Mr E a total of £400 in compensation and this 
is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the complaint. Therefore, I wont be 
asking them to do anything further and Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman