DRN-2720974
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Santander UK Plc caused a transaction he attempted to make at a 
supermarket using his debit card to not go through, causing him embarrassment.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr V attempted to pay for goods he was purchasing at a supermarket 
using the debit card on his Santander account. The transaction was declined, and Mr V felt 
embarrassed in front of the other people in the store because of this. 
Mr V quickly reported the issue to Santander, and from that point on the debit card worked 
properly again. This led Mr V to believe that the issue was with Santander, so he made a 
complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Vs complaint, but they didnt feel that theyd caused any problems 
with Mr Vs card and felt that the issue had been with the card machine that Mr V had used 
at the supermarket. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr V wasnt satisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it was more likely than not that the reason the 
transaction declined was because of the card terminal. So, they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Mr V remained dissatisfied, especially since there were other incidents when the card hadnt 
worked properly, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr V feels strongly about this complaint, and its equally clear that something 
happened which shouldnt have happened, and which led to the transaction Mr V was 
attempting being declined.
But having completed my review, I dont think its reasonable to say that the error that took 
place here, whatever it was, was of Santanders doing. Indeed, if there was an error with the 
card or the account in general, its unlikely that it would have been able to have been 
resolved so quickly following Mr Vs phone call to Santander.
What I feel is more likely to have happened is that there was some issue with the card 
machine, or with the connectivity of the card machine, being used by Mr V at the 
supermarket. Connectivity issues are not uncommon, and any interruption in connection 
during a transaction can cause that transaction to be declined.
The information that Santander have provided to this service supports this hypothesis. And 
the reason I say this is that if the attempted transaction had been received by Santander and 
prevented from taking place because of a Santander error then this would have been logged 
in Santanders records.
But Santander have no record of the transaction that Mr V refers to here, and Im satisfied 
that the most likely reason for this is because an error occurred with the card machine so 
that the transaction being attempted never reached Santander, and that this was the reason 
that the transaction declined.
I note that Mr V has explained that he has experienced intermittent issues with his card since 
that date. While these later issues fall outside the remit of this investigation, they do appear 
to support the hypothesis that the issue isnt one with Santanders systems, for if there was a 
systemic issue it would most likely be the case that the card didnt work at all, and its 
unlikely that any such issue would cause only intermittent failures such as those that Mr V 
describes.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Santander to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr V was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman