DRN-4387900
The complaint
Miss M complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2022 Miss M was browsing social media when she saw an advert for an 
investment opportunity which was endorsed by a well-known celebrity. She completed a 
questionnaire and was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker who could help her to 
invest in cryptocurrency. 
The broker asked questions about Miss Ms marital status, current employment, and 
investment experience and helped her to open an account with Revolut. They also helped 
her to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as I and told 
her to download Anydesk. On 2 August 2022, Miss M paid £240 to I with a debit card 
connected to her Revolut account. 
After making this payment, Miss M contacted Revolut via live chat to tell it shed been 
scammed, but the issue went no further because payment was returned to Miss Ms Revolut 
account. The broker told her the payment was returned due to a problem with her 
identification documents, but Miss M chose not to invest any more at that time.
On 16 August 2022 Miss M received another call from someone claiming to be a broker 
working for a different investment company. The broker told her he could help her to invest 
in cryptocurrency and on 16 August 2022, she made a payment of £240 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as C using her Revolut card.
On 10 November 2022, Miss M received a call from someone claiming to work for I. They 
told her some of their brokers had gambled the funds and it was paying its customers in 
cryptocurrency as compensation. She was told shed have to open three channels to access 
the compensation, and between 11 November 2022 and 2 December 2022, she made ten 
further payments to two different cryptocurrency exchanges.
Miss M realised shed been scammed when the broker became hostile and tried to 
pressurise her to pay the money. She contacted Revolut on 9 December 2022 to tell it shed 
been scammed, but it refused to refund any money on the basis that it had provided effective 
warnings and shed authorised the payments. 
She wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. She said shed told Revolut shed been scammed, and it failed to identify the 
payments had the hallmarks of a typical investment scam or to provide any education on 
how to avoid scams in future. She said she wasnt given any effective warnings and the pop-
ups she received ineffective as they simply asked if she was sure she wanted to make the 
payments. 
Miss Ms representative said Revolut should have intervened because she made twelve high 
value payments to five new payees which were cryptocurrency merchants. The payments 
were made in quick succession and totalled £18,331,00, so there were several occasions 
when it could have intervened to prevent the scam. They said there was no account history 
to compare the payments with because the account was opened for the purpose of the 
investment, and that the payments were unusual given their high value and the fact Miss M 
had rapidly withdrawn the balance of her account. Specifically, the representative said the 
three payments on 11 November 2022 were high value and made in quick succession. 
They said Revolut should have contacted Miss M and asked why she was making the 
payment, whether there was a third party or broker involved, and if so, how shed met them. 
It should also have asked whether shed done any research, whether shed checked the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, whether shed been promised unrealistic 
returns, whether shed received any withdrawals, and whether shed been pressured into 
making the payments. And with the answers to the questions, it would have been apparent 
she was falling victim to a scam so it should have provided appropriate and specific 
warnings.
Our investigator didnt think Miss M had provided sufficient evidence to show shed been 
scammed. He said there was evidence that shed purchased cryptocurrency, but he couldnt 
be sure where the funds were sent to from her cryptocurrency wallet. He said we normally 
see correspondence between consumers and the scammers such as emails or WhatsApp 
messages to demonstrate the victim has made the payments as part of a scam, but Miss M 
hadnt provided this evidence. 
He also said he didnt think the payments were unusual. He explained that when Miss M 
opened the account, she chose transfers as the purpose, so he didnt think it was 
suspicious that she then made payments to other accounts in her name. He also noted the 
payments were low value and as Miss M didnt speak to or interact with Revolut when she 
made them, he didnt think it had missed an opportunity to identify they were being made in 
relation to a scam.
Finally, he explained that Revolut wouldnt have been able to raise a valid chargeback 
request and the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code wasnt applicable because 
the payments were to another account in her name.
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
has explained theres no correspondence between Miss M and the scammers because all 
communication was over the phone. And images of the trading account show a zero 
balance, which show the scammer was using Anydesk to send money to a different wallet.  
And the fact she learned about the investment on social media is a hallmark of a scam.
They have argued the more appropriate reason for opening the account would have been 
gaining exposure to financial assets, and the rapid deposits and withdrawals on the account 
should have raised concerns, especially on 26 November 2023 when she made two 
payments totalling £4,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Miss Ms payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss M).
Miss Ms own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Miss Ms 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts 
decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was fair.
Im satisfied Miss M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Miss M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I share our investigators concerns that 
Miss M hasnt shown any evidence that her money was lost to a scam. This is because she 
hasnt produced any emails/messages showing communications with scammers. And I 
havent seen evidence that there were funds in an account that she was unable to withdraw 
or that she was lied to or prevented from withdrawing money that she should have had 
access to. However, Miss M has said she communicated with the scammer by phone and 
her account of having been encouraged to use Anydesk is consistent with this having been 
as scam. So, I have considered whether Revolut could have done anything to prevent her 
loss.
Prevention
Although Miss M didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the disputed 
payments. Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
Revolut had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
wider scams, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss M when 
she tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Miss M from financial harm. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems. Firstly, Ive considered 
whether the fact there was an interaction on 2 August 2022 means Revolut should have 
intervened in the later payments, and I dont think it did. 
Ive also considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual 
or uncharacteristic for the account, but theres no account activity to compare the payments 
with. When Miss M opened the account, she stated the reason was transfers, so I dont 
think Revolut needed to be concerned about the nature of the payments. And they were to 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies, so the nature of the merchants wasnt 
concerning either. The highest payment was for £3,051 on 2 December 2022, and the 
highest cumulative spend for a single day was £4,055 on 11 November 2022. So, I dont 
think the payment amounts were cause for concern and I dont think Revolut missed an 
opportunity to intervene.
Finally, Im satisfied that there was no reasonable prospect of a successful recovery 
because the payments were to an account in Miss Ms own name and the money was 
moved out of the accounts.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss M 
has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman