DRN-2861538
The complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold her a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1994 Ms M bought a PPI policy at the same time as she applied for a mortgage. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave her protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where the evidence is limited and incomplete my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence 
we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M says she was told she had to have PPI and as it was her first mortgage she didnt 
have the experience to question this. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds isnt able to provide the documents to
show how the PPI was first presented to Ms M. But the sale was over 25 years ago so
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully about everything Ms M
said and I dont doubt these are her honest recollections. But I also have to take into
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Lloyds has 
been able to provide a copy of an Income and Expenditure Budget form that it seems the 
branch adviser discussed and completed with her. Ms M signed this document and it set out 
the cost of the PPI separately. Without stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make it clear 
the PPI was optional, and Ms M didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint 
on this point.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check if the PPI was right for her. I think it 
seems to have been suitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Ms M was entitled to some sick pay but cant recall the exact amount and she had some 
savings at the time. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for 
up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave her up to 12 
months redundancy cover. It would have allowed her to use any savings to cover other 
living expenses whilst not working or to keep them intact for her future needs.
Ms M was borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured on her
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover 
wouldve been useful for Ms M if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Ms M all the information she needed before she decided to 
buy PPI. The cost was clear on the Income and Expenditure Budget form and the PPI was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered. But I dont know that Lloyds pointed out
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ms M doesnt appear to have been affected by
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical
conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Ms M has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
I note Ms M says she was unable to claim when she was made redundant. As the 
adjudicator explained she would need to first complain to the insurer about this. If she is 
unhappy with its response she may be able to bring her complaint to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman