DRN-2834483
The complaint
Ms C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted, and later closed her 
accounts. Shes also unhappy Barclays sent some of her funds back to the sending bank, 
and incorrectly loaded a fraud marker against her - causing her financial loss, and trouble 
and upset.  
I note Ms C is represented by a legal firm. To keep matters simple, Ill refer to Ms C in my 
decision. 
What happened
In November 2018, Barclays carried out a review of Ms Cs current account. Whilst doing so 
Barclays placed restrictions on Ms Cs account. After this review, Barclays notified Ms C it 
was closing the accounts she held with it. 
Barclays closed two of Ms Cs savings accounts and transferred the money held in them into 
Ms Cs current account. Barclays sent just over £17,000 from Ms Cs current account to 
another bank. Ms C says this money had come from an investment company she had 
investments with. 
The current account didnt close until April 2019. 
 
Ms C applied to another bank - who I will refer to as Bank A  for a new current account. A 
short while after opening this account, Bank A told Ms C that it was going to close the new 
account as it had noticed an adverse marker on searches it had carried out. 
Ms C then complained to Barclays. She also complained about poor customer service  
principally that other customers had overheard a conversation with Barclays staff about 
blocks being applied to her accounts. 
In summary, Barclays said the following in its final response: 
Barclays doesnt have to provide reasons for why it placed Ms Cs account under 
review and placed restrictions on it. This was in line with the account terms and 
conditions. Barclays apologised it took twelve working days, as opposed to the ten 
days, it said the review would take. 
Barclays had made the correct decision in closing Ms Cs accounts. Barclays 
explained it had sent a notice of closure letter to Ms C in December 2018.
Barclays branch staff should have taken Ms C into a room to talk about the matter 
privately. Also, there was some miscommunication from Barclays branch members. 
One staff member had said her account was under investigation, and another said it 
wasnt. Barclays apologised for both issues.
The £17,000 that was removed from Ms Cs account and returned to the senders 
bank was the remainder of the £25,000 that had been sent to Ms Cs account by an 
individual. The money was sent back in line with Barclays processes as the funds 
had been confirmed as fraudulent.  
After speaking to Ms C and reviewing information she had sent, Barclays said it 
would remove any adverse credit markers it had applied against her. Barclays 
apologised for the inconvenience the matter had caused Ms C as Bank A had said it 
would close her account because of the marker.  
As an apology for the service Ms C received, Barclays offered Ms C £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Ms C referred her complaint to this service. In addition to 
what shes already complained about, Ms C wants Barclays to pay for any charges incurred 
by her partner for having to borrow money to help her, and for any unpaid direct debit costs 
and her legal fees.
One of our investigators then looked into the matter. 
I note our investigator made several findings, but later changed his opinion on some of the 
points after the complaint was passed back to him by another Ombudsman for more 
investigation. 
To keep things simple, Ill summarise the key findings at the stage this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide: 
As a regulated business, Barclays has ongoing regulatory obligations it must follow. 
To meet these, it may decide to review its customers accounts at any time. When a 
bank does this it may decide to block the account whilst this happens. Sometimes it 
may return funds to source, and it may even decide to end the banking relationship.
The account terms and conditions allow for Barclays to close an account by giving 
sixty-days notice, or immediately, if it has reasonable grounds to do so. 
Barclays complaint handler had explained to Ms C the funds sent to her by her 
financial planner had been returned to their bank. And as they had been confirmed 
as fraudulent, Ms C would need to contact either her financial planner or their bank. 
So Ms C had been made aware of the location of the funds, and what shed need to 
do to try and obtain them.
Ms C has not provided any evidence she was entitled to these funds.  
Our investigator initially said Barclays should pay an additional £200 as 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused - on top of the £300 it had already 
offered Ms C. But they later changed their mind about this because Ms C was able to 
withdraw cash amounts from her Barclays current account and transfer her wages to 
her new Bank A account just before Christmas 2018. 
Also, they had seen evidence that showed Bank As restriction was only applied for 
twelve days in early January 2019. And this was after the festive period when Ms C 
said she was without any money. So they thought Barclays didnt need to pay 
anymore compensation for the impact its incorrectly applied credit marker had. The direct debit which was rejected from Ms Cs Barclays current account was due to 
there being insufficient funds in the account  not any error on Barclays part. So 
Barclays doesnt need to refund any fees for that.
The investigator noted three of Ms Cs direct debits from her Bank A account were 
returned unpaid during the period the restriction was applied to it. But Ms Cs account 
started operating normally, and direct debits were being paid after the restrictions 
were lifted. Our investigator added he had not seen any evidence to show Ms C 
incurred any late payment charges in relation to this or any adverse impact on Ms Cs 
credit file.
Ms C was unhappy with what our investigator has said and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. It follows that I must now decide this matter. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Ms C, so Ill explain why. 
Account restrictions and closure 
The investigator was right to point out Barclays has important legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened.
To comply with its obligations Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict its
customers access. If Barclays didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Barclays is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Barclays to block Ms Cs account and ask her for information relating to activity on the
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Ms C inconvenience, I cant say
Barclays treated her unfairly when it blocked her account. 
Just under two weeks after restricting Ms Cs bank accounts, Barclays took the decision to 
close all three of her accounts. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Ms C had to comply with, say
that it could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are, and
when Barclays can close it immediately.
Given the information presented to me by Barclays, and other relevant parties; and having 
looked at the wording of the applicable terms, I cant say Barclays acted unfairly in closing 
Ms Cs account with immediate effect. I understand its concern. 
So it follows that Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close the account in the way that ithas done. 
Funds returned to source
Ms C says Barclays had accepted previous payments into her account from the same 
investment company without issue. And it hasnt given any indication what was different on 
this occasion. She also says that the investment company hasnt received the funds 
Barclays say it sent. 
Barclays have made Ms C aware the funds which were returned to source from her financial 
planner were confirmed as fraudulent. I have looked at the bank statements both Ms C and 
Barclays have sent me. I note the previous funds Ms C is referring to appear as though they 
were sent by a foreign exchange company  and it had the reference of the investment 
company Ms C refers to. This means it wasnt from the same source as the money Barclays 
returned in late 2018 as Ms C suggests.    
The payment of £25,000 Ms C received was also not from the investment companys 
account. But it was sent from a private individuals account Ms C says belongs to her 
financial planner. 
Barclays is under no legal obligation, that Im aware of, which requires it to give the exact
basis for its actions. Because of that I wont be revealing any more than what Ive already 
said about the funds being confirmed as fraudulent in my decision. But based on the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays had a lawful basis for taking the action it did. 
When reaching this finding, Ive also considered Ms C hasnt provided any documentary 
information that shows she was entitled to these funds.
Ms C says the funds havent been returned to the investment company. But these funds 
were returned to the bank they originated from  and, it wasnt sent by the investment 
company as Ive already said. So I think this is a matter for Ms C to take up with her financial 
planner and/or their bank. 
Customer Service and adverse marker impact 
Barclays have accepted it got things wrong with the way its branch staff handled its 
communication  both in terms of confidentiality, and misinformation. Because of this, it 
offered Ms C £300 compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered. 
Ms C complains that an adverse credit marker Barclays added caused her financial loss and 
added trouble and upset. Shes explained her partner had to lend her money over that period 
which they themselves had to borrow, and thereby incurred interest and charges. 
Ms C adds that when Barclays closed her account, she was unable to open a current 
account with an alternative bank. As many of her financial commitments are paid using direct 
debit, she was unable to meet these, and incurred fees and interest. And, as Barclays closed 
her account before she was notified, she had no opportunity to withdraw her funds or make 
alternative banking arrangements. 
Ms C also says she had no access to funds over the festive period in 2018, which has 
caused her trouble and upset, especially as she wasnt able to buy everything she needed.  
So, it follows that I need to consider the information I have in relation to this to determine if 
Barclays should pay further compensation to Ms C  both for any financial loss and further 
trouble and upset. Firstly, I note from Ms Cs Barclays current account statements she was able to withdraw 
over £800 from the branch and transfer her wages to her new Bank A account, just a few 
days before Christmas 2018.  
Bank A have sent information which shows a temporary restriction was placed on Ms Cs 
new account with it for twelve days from the 2 January 2019. And Ive seen a statement from 
this account which shows Ms Cs wages were paid into it before Christmas 2018. 
So based on what Ive seen, I think Ms C did have funds over the period she says she didnt 
and had access to her wages up until the temporary restrictions were placed on Bank As 
account  which, as Ive already said, was in January 2019. 
Ms C has sent us information listing the amount of money she says her partner had to 
borrow to help her out over this period, and how much interest and charges they incurred as 
a result. But Ive already said Ms C had access to funds over the period she says she 
needed it for. And any funds her partner gave her represent his loss, and arent something I 
can compensate Ms C for.  
Ms C has said the funds available to her were insufficient to pay her bills and buy the gifts 
she needed for Christmas. But I note the amount she says she borrowed from her partner is 
roughly equivalent to her wages  which she did have access to until early January 2019. So 
I think its likely she did have access to enough of her own money. 
The restriction on Ms Cs Bank A account lifted once Barclays wrote to it to explain the 
adverse marker was applied incorrectly. So I think Ms C is mistaken when she says her new 
bank account application was refused. 
From the evidence available to me I cant see that Ms C incurred any charges for failed 
direct debits when her account was restricted by Barclays. I note one direct debit was 
returned unpaid, but that was because of insufficient funds. Ms C may argue that this 
wouldnt have happened had her investment funds not been returned. But Ive already said 
Barclays acted fairly by sending them back. 
There are some failed direct debits on Ms Cs new Bank A current account during the period 
it was placed under restriction. From the statements for this account, I cant see Ms C 
incurred any fees because of this from Bank A. Our investigator had asked Ms C if she had 
any evidence to show she incurred fees or charges from the creditors. But as Ms C hasnt 
provided anything to show she suffered a loss, Im satisfied there isnt a financial loss here 
for me direct Barclays to compensate her for. 
I accept the application of the fraud marker by Barclays, and then having to get it removed, 
has caused Ms C trouble and inconvenience. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied an award of £300, already offered by Barclays, is enough to compensate her for 
this and the customer service issues Barclays say it got wrong.    
Finally, Ms C has asked that her legal costs are covered. But this was Ms Cs choice. She 
could after all have referred the complaint to this service without appointing a professional 
representative.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman