DRN-4153338
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) did not treat her fairly when 
she tried to apply for a savings account.
What happened
Miss B had an appointment at a Halifax branch to open a savings account, she says shed 
been encouraged to do this by various staff members as moving her money to a savings 
account would mean she was eligible for Halifaxs savings account prize draw.
On arriving for her appointment Miss B was very unhappy with the way things were handled. 
Specifically, she was unhappy with the following issues:
- the nature of the meeting was not made clear to her before she arrived
- the meeting was recorded
- the meeting was not held in a private area (so her personal information could have 
been overheard)
- she was asked what she felt were unnecessary and intrusive questions
- Halifax then refused to proceed with the application when she declined to answer a 
question about savings account she held elsewhere
Miss B raised a complaint with Halifax about these issues, but Halifax did not agree it had 
done anything wrong. It said that it had followed its own procedures for a savings account 
application and did not think it had treated Miss B unfairly. Miss B remained unhappy so she 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, they agreed with Halifax that it 
had acted reasonably and had followed its processes in how it treated Miss B. Miss B did not 
agree, so her complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 20 April 2023. In that decision I explained 
that while there were areas where I felt Halifax had acted reasonably, I did not think it was 
fair for it to have refused to proceed with the savings account application. I recommended 
that Halifax pay Miss B £100 to recognise the impact of this. 
Halifax did not entirely agree with the detail of my findings, but nonetheless agreed to accept 
my provisional decision. Miss B made several comments regarding my findings which she 
felt still needed to be addressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
I acknowledge that Miss B was frustrated and annoyed by the way the meeting was handled 
but there are certain aspects of the meeting where I consider that Halifax did behave 
reasonably. Firstly, I appreciate that Miss B may not have come across this practice before, 
but I dont think it is unfair or unreasonable for Halifax to record meetings of this nature. The 
staff member Miss B was speaking with explained why meetings were recorded when she 
asked, and those reasons are, in my view, reasonable. Miss B was given the option to refuse 
the meeting if she did not want to be recorded.
I also appreciate that Miss B did not feel the location of the meeting was appropriate, she felt 
that it was not adequately private and that this could lead to a breach in her personal data, 
particularly when the staff member read her account balance out loud. Miss B has also 
commented on the staff member taking written notes during the meeting which she feels 
were unnecessary and, again, could lead to a potential breach in her personal data. I can 
understand why Miss B feels the way she does, but Halifax had evidently assessed the 
location as being private enough for this sort of meeting. And if Miss B disagreed then she 
could have objected at the time, and perhaps asked if a more private area was available if 
she felt uncomfortable. I acknowledge that Miss B says she did not know how much of her 
private date would be discussed prior to the meeting but any account application is likely to 
involve some level of personal data being discussed.
I also dont think it is unreasonable for a staff member to take written notes during such a 
meeting, as long as those notes are adequately stored or destroyed afterwards, and Halifax 
has confirmed they would have been. In any case, Ive not seen anything to show that there 
was any breach of Miss Bs data, so while I appreciate her strength of feeling I dont consider 
that Halifax has made any clear error here for which compensation or any other remedy 
would be appropriate.
Turning to the questions that Miss B was asked during the meeting, I can understand her 
frustration with these. But it does appear that the questions she was asked were in line with 
Halifaxs savings account application process at the time. So while I dont doubt that it was 
irritating to be asked questions she felt were irrelevant  or that Miss B was aware Halifax 
already knew the answer to  I cant find that Halifax actually did anything wrong in asking 
these questions. 
I also dont agree that Miss B was misled to any great degree about what she would need to 
bring to the meeting, the documents shes provided indicate that existing customers will 
need to bring their bank card  which she did  and if they are interested in opening an ISA 
they will also need details of ISA accounts held elsewhere. Miss B was not interested in 
opening an ISA, but Halifax was not necessarily aware of that prior to the meeting, an ISA is, 
by definition, an Individual Savings Account and Miss Bs meeting had been arranged to 
discuss opening a sole savings account. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to 
ask Miss B about the savings account she held elsewhere.
However, I dont think it was reasonable for Halifax to then refuse to proceed with the 
application when Miss B declined to answer this question. Miss B was not willing to share 
detailed information about her other savings accounts. Halifax then stated it would not be 
able to proceed with the application unless Miss B answered this question, I dont think that 
was fair. 
I understand why this question was likely asked  to enable Halifax to determine whether 
Miss B was using her full ISA allowance or similar and so determine what savings accounts 
Halifax could offer her  but Ive not seen anything to show why Halifax could not proceed 
without an answer to this question. For example, Halifax could have simply set out the 
various savings accounts it offered and told Miss B that some (such as ISAs) would not be available if she was using her full ISA allowance elsewhere. Or it could have rephrased or 
reworded the question so that it was less intrusive. Or even simply explained why this 
information was needed. It seems unfair for Halifax to refuse to proceed with Miss Bs 
application purely because she was unwilling to share personal information that there does 
not appear to have been any legal or regulatory requirement for providing in order to 
complete the application.
So unless Halifax can provide a reasonable explanation as to why Miss Bs savings account 
application could not proceed without this specific information, I am currently intending to 
find that it did not treat her fairly when it ended the application meeting. It follows that I also 
intend to find that Halifax should pay Miss B some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She had, after all, made a visit to the branch specifically to apply for 
a savings account, and was unable to do so because of Halifaxs refusal to proceed. 
I welcome comments from both parties, and its possible my findings may change depending 
on any further comments I do receive, but with the information I have seen so far, I am 
currently intending to uphold this complaint and to direct Halifax to pay Miss B £100 in 
compensation.
Im grateful Miss B took the time to respond in detail to my provisional findings, but having 
carefully considered what she has said my findings remain unchanged.
I appreciate her comments that it was what was said  rather than the specific location of the 
meeting  that caused her concerns about the security of her personal data. But while I 
acknowledge that information such as her account balance was read out loud there is 
nothing to show that anyone overheard that information, or was able to overhear it given the 
location and specific conditions in the branch at the time. So I cannot reasonably find that 
Halifax did anything wrong here.
Miss B has commented that she does not see how I could consider that the pre-meeting 
information she was provided about what to bring was satisfactory. I acknowledge that the 
documents she was sent do not seem to suggest that she would need photo ID or proof of 
her address, I do though consider they make it clear that for some savings accounts she 
would need details of her savings held elsewhere. And, overall, while I acknowledge the 
frustration this caused, Miss B did have the required documents with her. And my role here 
is not to direct Halifax to change its processes or procedures, but to consider the individual 
impact on Miss B.
Miss B has also commented on the staff member she spoke to lying about his awareness or 
otherwise of the prize draw accounts. Nothing I have seen or heard has suggested to me 
that the staff member lied to her about this. I think it is helpful to clarify here that there is not 
a specific prize draw savings account. Customers who hold £5,000 or more in savings in all 
their qualifying accounts (which includes all savings accounts and ISAs, but not child 
savings accounts) for a month can qualify for the prize draw in the next month. I think what 
happened here was more a misunderstanding than a deliberate act of lying, although I 
appreciate that doesnt lessen Miss Bs frustration.
Miss B has also asked whether she would now be able to open a savings account with 
Halifax without any further issues. I cannot say exactly what would happen if Miss B were to 
try again to open a savings account with Halifax, as Ive said, its not my role to tell Halifax to 
change its processes or procedures. I can only suggest that if Miss B does decide to open a 
savings account and there are then further issues, she would be able to make a new 
complaint to Halifax and then to our service if she did not feel any concerns were resolved.Overall, while I appreciate Miss B remains unhappy with the way her application and 
complaint were handled, I am satisfied that what Halifax has now offered to do  pay Miss B 
£100  is a reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Miss B £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should put things right in 
the way set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman