DRN-4031898
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to an 
investment scam and lost money.
What happened
Around August 2021 Mr W was introduced to a crypto investment opportunity by one of his 
friends, who reported receiving profits of 5% each week. The friend introduced Mr W to the 
CEO of an online investment company, who Ill refer to as Ms M, who persuaded Mr W to 
invest. Having satisfied himself the opportunity was genuine, Mr W made the following 
payments from his Santander account to a legitimate crypto exchange platform:
Date Transaction type Amount
24 September 2021 Faster payment £50
24 September 2021 Faster payment £200
7 October 2021 Debit card payment £1,000
12 October 2021 Faster payment £350
15 October 2021 Faster payment £1,100
15 October 2021 Faster payment £2,800
From there, Mr W transferred his funds on to what he understood was an investment trading 
platform. Although its likely this was when the funds moved into the control of the 
scammers.
Mr W initially saw his investment making good profits. But after a while he began 
experiencing technical difficulties and tried to contact Ms M. She suggested that Mr W 
withdraw his funds, but that to do so he would need to pay additional taxes and fees. Unable 
to pay these fees, Mr W continued to contact Ms M to try to access his account. Around 
June 2022 contact with Ms M ended abruptly. At this point Mr W realised hed been 
scammed and contacted Santander for help. 
Santander considered what had happened but explained it would not reimburse Mr W for the 
money hed lost. It was satisfied the payments had been properly authorised by Mr W. It also 
explained that, as the payments had gone into a genuine account in his name held with a 
legitimate crypto platform, the payments were not covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. 
Mr W was unhappy with Santanders response and so referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, with the help of a professional representative (Ill refer to as C). He 
complained that Santander had failed to alert him to the risk that he may be falling victim to a 
crypto scam and didnt provide him with an effective warning. C suggested that the 
payments were highly unusual and out of character for Mr W, so should have triggered 
intervention from the bank. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded the transactions were 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious that Santander should have intervened before processing 
the payment. As such, he did not think Mr Ws loss could reasonably have been prevented. 
C disagreed on Mr Ws behalf and asked for this complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. C maintained that the payment was unusual and so should have 
triggered an intervention from Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Im sorry to hear Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost money 
as a result. I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But 
I can only direct Santander to refund Mr Ws losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for them.
Mr W authorised each of the scam payments from his Santander account. So, although he 
didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, Santanders obligation is to follow the 
instructions Mr W provides.
I should clarify that in this case, as Santander has said, the CRM code doesnt apply. This is 
a voluntary code which requires signatories, such as Santander, to reimburse customers 
who are victims of scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code 
does not apply in these circumstances, as Mr Ws payments were made to a crypto 
exchange platform where the money was held in a wallet account held in his own name.
While the CRM code doesnt apply, there are other relevant obligations that could apply. In 
accordance with the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers, as far as is reasonably 
possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. But a bank would only need to intervene and ask 
more questions about the payment if an instruction was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account.
Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. So, the starting 
point for me is to consider whether any of Mr Ws payment instructions were particularly 
unusual or uncharacteristic, either individually or collectively, taking account of his usual 
usage.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws account statements from March 2021 to October 2021 and, having 
done so, I cant reasonably conclude the payments to the scam were sufficiently out of character with Mr Ws normal account usage or otherwise so unusual/suspicious that 
Santander should have intervened. 
The initial payments to the scam were of a relatively low value (£50 and £200) that would 
have appeared in keeping with Mr Ws day-to-day account usage. So, I would not have 
expected Santander to have intervened when he instructed the initial payments. 
I appreciate that later payments were more significant in value  he made a debit card 
payment of £1,000 on 7 October and on 15 October 2021 he instructed two faster payments 
totalling £3,900. While these payments were larger than Mr Ws day-to-day transactions, I 
dont think they were so large that they should automatically have stood out to Santander as 
suspicious. Im also aware that on 30 September 2021, Mr W had made a payment of 
£4,000 from his account that was unrelated to this scam. While this appears to be the first 
time Mr W had made a payment of this size, it meant the scam payments did not appear out 
of character for Mr Ws usual account usage. While we know with the benefit of hindsight 
that Mr W was sadly falling victim to a scam, I dont think this ought to have been apparent to 
Santander from the payment instructions he made. 
Overall, I can find no reason why Santander ought to have intervened before processing 
Mr Ws payment instruction. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should 
have prevented his loss.
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Santander should have done 
anything to recover Mr Ws losses, but I dont think it should have. 
In terms of Mr Ws debit card payment, the only possible option for recovery would have 
been via a chargeback claim. But given this transaction was used to purchase crypto from a 
legitimate crypto exchange wallet, I dont think a chargeback claim would have been 
successful, as Mr W received the service he paid for. In terms of the faster payments, again 
these were made to a wallet account held in Mr Ws name. Any transfer onwards from that 
wallet would have been untraceable and irrecoverable. As such, I dont think Santander 
could or should have attempted to recover Mr Ws lost funds.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr W being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Santander to refund his loss if I 
thought it was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything 
considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable in these circumstances. It 
follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman