DRN-2128225
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Miss M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 2000 Miss M opened a store card account. She remembered completing an 
application form at the till when queuing to pay for her purchases and she said that taking 
out the store card meant she was able to take advantage of an offer to save money on her 
purchases. Miss M told us that was the only reason she took out the store card and at that 
stage she took out her card without PPI. 
In June 2001, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Miss M owed on her store card 
and it protected Miss Ms store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. Miss M disagreed. 
In summary, Miss Ms main complaint is that the policy was only useful to someone who 
knew they had it.  Miss M said her policy was mis-sold because she didnt know she had it 
and so wouldnt have been able to claim on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Miss M when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was to sell PPI. So it seems 
likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to 
see if Miss M wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for around 
6 months without PPI, I think Miss M wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Miss Ms circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy. (Ill say more about this later).
On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the phone call 
when Miss M chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and deciding 
she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Miss M to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Miss M with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Miss M had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Miss M couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. It wouldve paid out on top of sick 
pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Miss M 
needed to claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or disabled. 
I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of savings shes 
mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. 
I've taken into account that Miss M mentioned also that she couldve relied on her family to 
help out. But relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Although Miss M also said shed had a student loan, I cant assume she wouldve always 
been able to use her student loan to make her store card monthly repayments. And once 
she reached the earnings threshold, shed have to start repaying it as well. 
Looking at everything Miss M told us about her financial situation at the time, it doesnt 
appear to me that Miss M had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the 
store card monthly repayments if she wasnt working. So I think Miss M couldve benefitted 
from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think having 
more information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve 
affected her decision to take out PPI. I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve 
been any reason why Miss M wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the main 
policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Miss M off taking the policy out.   
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Miss M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Miss M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the evident benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for 
Miss M when she signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt have to, so it 
seems she wanted the cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Miss M off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Miss M all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Miss M is worse off as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman