DRN-1989666
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between 
1997 and 2002. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account at the
same time as Mr D applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D applied for his card some time between 1997 and 2002 and its possible 
that he bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is 
the case. Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. 
So I think its most likely Mr D bought the PPI at the same time as applying for 
his credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr D aware the PPI was optional and he chose 
to take it. Mr D says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed and he didnt know 
it had been added to his account. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr D and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no 
longer available. Thats not surprising as its over twenty years since the policy 
was sold. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect a business to retain records 
for that length of time. 
But from what we know about Lloyds sales processes between 1997 and 2002, 
Mr D wouldve had to actively select the PPI during the credit card application 
process. On balance I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr 
Ds account if he hadnt chosen to take it. 
Mr D has said he didnt claim on the policy when he was made redundant, 
because he didnt know he had it. But even though Mr D didnt make a claim, I 
dont think I can safely say this meant Lloyds hadnt told him about the policy. Its 
possible Mr D had forgotten the cover was in place.
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the policy to Mr D, but it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. 
Mr D says that in addition to his employer sick pay he was in a well paid job when 
he took out the policy. He was a home owner and had savings he couldve used to 
cover his credit card repayments. So I can see why Mr D might consider he didnt 
need the PPI. Ive noted everything hes said. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ds employer benefits. And it 
wouldve meant he could leave his savings and property equity intact, or he 
couldve used them to cover other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve been 
useful to Mr D if he couldnt work, despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr D would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
him buying it.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman