DRN-2832852
The complaint
Ms M complains about four personal loans provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which she says were unaffordable. 
What happened
L2G agreed four loans for Ms M between June 2016 and June 2018. Loans 2 to 4 were each 
used to repay the previous loan and Loan 4 hasnt been repaid. The balance on Loan 4 was 
sold to a third party, (T), in November 2019. Some of the information L2G provided about 
the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 11/6/2016 3/10/2017 £300 £58.67 18
2. 2/10/2017 6/2/2018 £350 £79.29 18
3. 6/2/2018 8/6/2018 £550 £124.61 18
4. 8/6/2018 Unpaid £650 £147.26 18
Ms M says that in 2016 she applied for a small loan with L2G. She was at that time 
borrowing heavily from payday lenders and other loan companies. She topped up the
initial loan three times and believes that the lender was irresponsible in lending to her. 
Repaying the loans had caused her financial hardship. She became trapped in a cycle of 
irresponsible borrowing to meet her financial commitments. She lost her tenancy due to 
arrears and she and her family were homeless for a period as she was unable to secure 
rented accommodation due to her credit score and borrowing history. It was evident at the
time of borrowing that she had financial problems and her wage slips clearly showed earning 
attachments.
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loans. It considered Ms Ms declared income which it 
verified via an income verification tool and it also reviewed Ms Ms credit file. L2G referred to 
the amount declared by Ms M for her credit commitments and said that its systems took an 
additional amount into consideration for expenses such as rent/mortgage and other 
household expenditure as well as credit commitments. L2G also discounted Ms Ms income 
by a buffer of £90 to account for any fluctuations in her monthly expenditure. After doing this, 
L2G said that Ms M was left with an amount to deem the loans to be affordable. L2G said it 
took into consideration all the available information whilst calculating the affordability of the 
loans taken out with it, and it was determined that Ms M had enough disposable income to 
afford her contractual instalments.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He thought 
the lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Ms Ms financial 
situation. He couldnt see that it did this. He also couldnt see that Ms M had sent us 
information which would have shown anything concerning which might have affected L2Gs 
decision to lend. The adjudicator said that Ms M should send him such information if she 
was able to provide it.
Ms M then sent in a credit report (which was a copy of a lenders credit checks) and 
information about other loans taken out in 2016. She believed that L2G failed to complete 
adequate checks into her true financial situation. She said that the lender ignored clear signs 
that her borrowing had spiralled out of control. Her credit file clearly showed repeated access 
to payday and guarantor loans, increasing in amount with each application. She said that 
she was reliant on pay day loans and guarantor loans to survive and used loans to pay off 
others. She had been in a cycle of debt since 2010. She wasnt making rent payments in full 
or on time. She had attachment of earnings orders on her salary in relation to housing and 
council tax debts. She said that if more detailed checks had been carried out, it would have 
been clear that L2Gs loans were compounding her debt issues and causing more problems. 
She had raised a number of unaffordable lending complaints with other lenders which had 
been upheld in all cases.
The adjudicator noted that Ms M did have some financial difficulty and that she had
defaulted on some payments. But he couldnt see enough to say that L2G shouldnt have 
provided the loans.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms M 
and to L2G on 20 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that Ms M had referred to other complaints she had made for unaffordable lending. 
But I said that we assessed each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to 
compare the outcomes of complaints as the circumstances might be very different.
When L2G lent to Ms M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and 
guidance obliged L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that L2G needed 
to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford 
to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so L2G had to think about whether Ms M could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Ms M. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ms case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ms loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ms loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Ms M about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £300. The interest rate on Loan 1 was 168%, (679% APR). The loan was to 
be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of around £58.67. If Ms M made each 
payment when it was due, shed pay £1,056 in total. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Ms M had a county court 
judgement (CCJ) against her from around four months prior to her loan application. The 
amount due was £568. It also would have seen that Ms M had five accounts in arrears (two 
credit card accounts, one loan account and two telecommunication accounts). Two of the 
accounts had been in arrears for three months. Ms M also had two active loans including a 
£7,000 loan taken in December 2015 for which she was paying £276 per month. Ms M had 
also taken out short term loans in February, March and April 2016. The March 2016 loan had 
not yet been repaid. The credit checks also showed that there were 12 credit searches in the 
last three months which I thought showed that Ms M had a recent need for credit. 
I could see that on L2Gs loan authorisation form, L2G had noted the CCJ but I was 
concerned to note that it hadnt referred to the five accounts in arrears. Altogether, I thought 
the results of its checks should have caused L2G concerns as Ms Ms finances appeared to be under pressure as shown by the relatively recent CCJ, the five accounts in arrears, the 
relatively recent need for short term credit and the number of credit searches in the previous 
three months. At the very least I would have reasonably expected L2G to have taken steps 
to verify Ms Ms actual monthly expenditure to gain a more thorough understanding of her 
financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan. L2G 
didnt say that it took steps to do this.
In addition to the credit checks, I noted that L2G had also considered Ms Ms income and 
expenses. With regard to Ms Ms income she had supplied her two most recent payslips and 
a child tax credit (CTC) letter from HMRC.
I noted that L2G had calculated an average monthly net income of £894.51 for Ms M on the 
basis of her two payslips from April and May 2016. But I could see that her payslip for         
April 2016 included around £97 for additional hours. Ms Ms May 2016 payslip didnt show 
any amount for additional hours. As it appeared that Ms Ms additional hours were variable, I 
didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to use an average of the two months net pay for the 
purpose of assessing affordability. If L2G had used Ms Ms net pay without the addition of 
pay for additional hours, this would have meant a monthly net income of around £866 being 
used in the affordability assessment rather than £894.51. 
L2G would also have seen on the two payslips that there were deductions for attachment of 
earnings orders of around £120. I couldnt see that it had referred to these. But I thought 
they added to Ms Ms debt history which L2G had also seen on her credit checks and ought 
to have raised further concerns.
I also noted that in L2Gs disposable income calculation, L2G had calculated a monthly 
amount for CTC of around £495 based on the four weekly amount payable as shown in the 
CTC letter from September 2016. But the CTC letter showed that until late July 2016, Ms M 
was to receive four weekly payments of less than £349 (a monthly equivalent of around 
£378) which was at least £117 less than the amount it had calculated. 
I could also see from L2Gs application form that it had asked Ms M about her expenses. 
L2G had amended some of these following what it had seen on its credit checks. She had 
provided information about rent, council tax, TV licence, satellite TV, mobiles, social use and 
travel which totalled £825. L2G had provided information about Ms Ms credit commitments 
totalling £387.50.
Using L2Gs figures it appeared that Ms M had a disposable income of around £176 and she 
would have been left with around £117 each month after her monthly repayment was made. 
But I could see if Ms Ms net income for May 2016 had been used to calculate Ms Ms 
disposable income (which was her income without additional hours), she would have been 
left with around £90 each month after making her monthly loan repayment. In addition, she 
wouldnt have had enough money to make her loan repayments in July and August 2016 
when she was due to receive the reduced CTC payments Id referred to above.
I noted from the CTC letter that L2G had seen that Ms M had three dependents under 16. 
The payslips L2G had seen referred to deductions for a car scheme. In Ms Ms 
circumstances, I thought it would have been reasonable for L2G to expect that Ms M would 
be likely to incur unexpected expenses, especially over a term of 18 months. So, I thought 
Ms M would have needed a larger disposable income than she had for the loan to be 
sustainable. When I also took into account what L2G was likely to have seen in its credit 
checks, overall, I thought L2G was wrong to give Ms M this loan.
I noted that Ms M had difficulty with some of her loan repayments, with payments declined 
on the September 2016 and November 2016 payment dates, and the November 2016 payment being made a week late. Nevertheless, L2G agreed to provide Ms M with Loan 2 in    
October 2017.
Loan 2
The loan amount for Loan 2 was £50 higher than Ms Ms previous loan and her monthly 
repayments had increased by around £20. L2G used £119.98 from the Loan 2 proceeds to 
repay the balance on Loan 1, leaving Ms M with £230.02.  
I noted that the interest rate on Loan 2 was 205.2%, (1,128.7% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months. And if Ms M had made each payment when it was due, shed pay 
£1,427.22 in total. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Ms M had 18 active 
accounts. She had a CCJ against her from February 2016. L2G knew about this from its 
checks before Loan 1. But L2G would also have seen from its checks that Ms Ms financial 
situation had significantly deteriorated. Since August 2016, she had 11 defaulted accounts. 
Five of these had been defaulted in 2017, with the most recent account defaulted in    
August 2017. It didnt appear that she had repaid any of the defaulted balances. Shed also 
taken out an unsecured loan for £7,500 in July 2016 and had missed payments on this in 
December 2016 and February and July 2017.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. I thought L2Gs credit checks 
suggested that Ms M was facing significant financial pressures. 
I could also see that Ms M had given L2G a bill from her local authority for council tax. This 
showed that there was a summons in June 2017 for unpaid council tax of around £900.
I could also see that on L2Gs loan authorisation form, L2G had noted the CCJ and said that 
Ms M had a good payment history notwithstanding the payment difficulties Id referred to 
above.
Altogether I thought the extent of Ms Ms indebtedness that L2G would have seen on its 
checks should have put L2G on notice that Ms M was having serious problems managing 
her money. I didnt think it could be confident that Ms M would be able to repay Loan 2 
sustainably. And I didnt think L2G made a fair lending decision to provide Loan 2 to her 
based on what it had already seen in its checks. Agreeing further credit for Ms M was only 
likely to add to her financial difficulties.
I said that I wasnt going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of what 
Id said above. But I thought it worth mentioning that Id noted that L2G had used Ms Ms 
three payslips from July to September 2017 to provide an average net monthly income of 
£2,085 in its affordability assessment. Id noted that the July 2017 payslip was the first for a 
new job and included a one off adjustment of around £1,550 in addition to the basic salary. 
The August 2017 payslip used the basic salary, but only £1.80 tax was deducted. As the 
September 2017 payslip included a deduction of income tax of £143.20, I thought it was 
likely to be more representative of Ms Ms income going forward, although I thought that not 
all the mileage amount of around £261 on the payslip was likely to be available. The net 
income on that payslip was around £1,660 and so more than £400 less than the monthly 
income figure used in L2Gs assessment. As L2Gs final response letter referred to using an 
income of £2,061.80 and a disposable income of £176.85, it didnt seem that if a more 
realistic income figure had been used by L2G in its assessment that there would have been 
any disposable income left for Ms M to make her loan repayments.   Around four months after taking out Loan 2, Ms M applied for Loan 3. Ms M used the 
proceeds of Loan 3 to repay Loan 2 and received £217.91 from the loan proceeds.
Loan 3
The loan amount for Loan 3 was £200 higher than Ms Ms previous loan and her monthly 
repayments had increased by around £45. Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 3 was     
205.2%, (1,038.5% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months. And if Ms M made 
each payment when it was due, shed pay £2,242.98 in total. 
Id again reviewed L2Gs credit checks. As Loan 3 was only around four months after     
Loan 2, the checks showed broadly the same situation as L2Gs credit checks for Loan 2. 
Although the checks didnt show any further credit being taken out since Loan 2, I couldnt 
see that the defaulted balances had decreased. And agreeing Loan 3 simply added to       
Ms Ms debt and prolonged her indebtedness. So, based on its credit checks, again I didnt 
think L2G could be confident that Ms M would be able to repay Loan 3 sustainably. And I 
didnt think L2G made a fair lending decision to provide Loan 3 to her based on what it had 
already seen in its checks. 
I thought Ms Ms difficulties managing her money were shown when she repaid her       
March 2018 repayment five days late and her April 2018 a day late. And then around four 
months after taking out Loan 3, Ms M applied for Loan 4. Ms M used the proceeds of Loan 4 
to repay Loan 3, and she received £219.15 from the loan proceeds.
Loan 4
The loan amount for Loan 4 was £100 higher than Ms Ms previous loan and her monthly 
repayments had increased by around £23. Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 4 was     
205.2%, (990% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months. And if Ms M made each 
payment when it was due, shed pay £2,650.68 in total.
Loan 4 was Ms Ms fourth loan from L2G in around two years without any break. The amount 
of Loan 4 was over double Loan 1. 
Looking at the overall history and pattern of lending, I thought by the time of Loan 4, L2G 
ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Ms Ms indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. I said this 
because
Ms M had struggled to make some of her payments on Loans 1 and 3;
Ms M wasnt making any inroads to the amount she owed L2G. By Loan 4 the 
amount being borrowed was over double the amount of Loan 1 and £100 more than  
her previous loan and the loan repayments had significantly increased;
Ms M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to L2G over an 
extended period. And by taking out Loan 4, Ms M would be indebted for a further 18 
months to L2G;
By Loan 4, Ms M had been borrowing from L2G for around 24 months without a 
break. Shed not yet managed to repay any of the loans without borrowing further 
from L2G and increasing her debt. It didnt seem to me that Ms M had managed to 
free herself of a need for credit;
As Loan 4 was for 18 months, Ms M would be required to make even higher 
repayments for this period and would continue to be reliant on this expensive credit 
for an extended period, potentially keeping her in the market for higher cost loans.I thought that the overall cost of Loan 4 unfairly prolonged Ms Ms already difficult financial 
position. And taking everything into account, I didnt think L2G treated Ms M fairly when it 
agreed to lend Loan 4 to her. I noted that Ms M hadnt managed to repay this loan as agreed 
and it was still outstanding and had been sold to T.
So, subject to any further representations by Ms M or L2G, I intended to say that I didnt 
think L2G had acted fairly when it provided Loans 1 to 4 to Ms M and that it needed to pay 
Ms M some compensation. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understand that Loans 1 to 3 were repaid from the proceeds of Loans 2 to 4 and that    
Loan 4 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Ms M back into the position she would have 
been had Loans 1 to 4 not been agreed for her, L2G needs to ensure that Ms M only repays 
the principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, Ms M shouldnt repay more than the 
combined capital amount of £1,850 she borrowed on these loans. So, L2G needs to:
a) treat all payments that Ms M has made towards Loans 1 to 4 as payments towards the 
principal amounts borrowed;
b) if Ms M has made payments above the combined capital amount of £1,850, then these 
should be refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then L2G needs to 
treat Ms M fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This might mean agreeing a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with her.
d) remove any adverse information about Loans 1 to 3 from Ms Ms credit file; 
e) remove any adverse information about Loan 4 from Ms Ms credit file; and 
f) remove all information about Loan 4 from Ms Ms credit file once it has been settled.
As L2G has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 4 to T, it should buy it back if it is able to do 
so or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt 
back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with T to bring about steps a) to c) and e) and f) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If L2G
intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax. 
Ms M responded to my provisional decision by thanking me for it.
L2G hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Given that Ms M and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require L2G to pay Ms M some compensation as set out above.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above under 
the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman