DRN-3722212
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc shouldnt have continued to provide him with a 
£1,000 credit limit on his credit card from December 2015.
What happened
Mr S was provided with a Santander credit card. In April 2015 his credit limit was increased 
from £500 to £1,000. He says that by December 2015, it was clear that he had reached a 
position where he couldnt reduce his indebtedness without help. He says that Santander 
should have stopped providing him with the £1,00 credit limit at that time.
Santander says that Mr S was making the minimum repayments on his credit card at the 
time and that interest and charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions. In 
its correspondence from August 2022, Santander said that Mr S had only recently contacted 
it about his financial difficulties.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that the charges had been correctly 
applied and that there was little room for Santander to reduce Mr S credit limit in December 
2015 as he was operating at the limit and could have incurred overlimit charges. 
Mr S reiterated that he shouldnt have continued to have a £1,000 credit limit from December 
2015 and referred to another case he had upheld from that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr S comments about his other complaint being upheld and I can understand why he 
has raised this complaint about his credit card limit and charges from December 2015. 
However, each complaint is assessed individually and based on its merits. Mr S other 
complaint was about a different product. This decision considers the information expected to 
be taken into consideration by a credit card provider, in this case Santander, and assesses 
whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably by continuing to provide Mr S with a £1,000 
credit limit from December 2015 and apply charges accordingly.
Having considered the evidence provided I agree with our investigator and do not uphold this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Mr S credit limit was increased in April 2015 to £1,000. This lending decision hasnt 
been raised as an issue. I can see that following the limit increase Mr S started to 
increase his spending on the credit card and by July 2015 his credit card was 
operating at near the new £1,000 limit. In the months leading up to December 2015, 
Mr S remained within his credit limit and was making monthly payments towards the 
outstanding balance. While I appreciate his balance was remaining near the credit 
limit, I do not think his account activity raised concerns at that time. 
Mr S repaid a significant amount of his credit card balance in December and after 
further spending on the card his balance on his January 2016 statement was around 
£700. I do not think that this behaviour on his account would have raised concerns 
and could suggest he was in a position to start reducing his balance. 
Mr S kept his balance at around £700 for the next few months until it started to 
increase again in June 2016 and was around the limit in July 2016. However, Mr S 
was still making his monthly repayments and was operating within his credit limit. He 
was then able to make payments that meant his balance reduced each month from 
July to November 2016. 
Mr S balance increased to just over £900 in December 2016 but then reduced and 
was kept below £900 until July 2017. As Mr S appeared to be managing his account 
and was operating within the account terms, I do not think that Santander should 
have been concerned about his account at this time.
Mr S did then increase his account balance to around £950 and it remained around 
this level for the following year. While Mr S wasnt significantly reducing his balance 
at this time, he was making regular repayments and was within his credit limit. As he 
hadnt made Santander aware of issues around this time, I do not think Santander 
was wrong to continue to apply the charges in line with the agreement. 
Over the following months, Mr S account balance was, at times, near its credit limit, 
but it didnt exceed it. He was making his monthly repayments and on occasions 
higher repayments to reduce the balance. It wasnt until October 2019 that Mr S 
exceeded his credit limit. At this point I think this should have raised concerns and I 
note that Santander has said that his account was referred to its collections team in 
November 2019.
Overall, while I understand the point Mr S has raised about this other complaint being 
upheld, having considered the evidence regarding his credit card account I do not find that 
Santander was wrong to keep Mr S credit limit in place and to apply interest and charges in 
line with the agreement until April 2020. As our investigator has noted, had his credit limit 
been decreased this could have caused other issues regarding over limit charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman