DRN-4199098
The complaint
A company I will refer to as M complains about issues it experienced with an international 
transfer made from its HSBC UK Bank Plc bank account.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of events. M has a business bank 
account with HSBC and, on 19 September 2022, made an international transfer of around 
£90,000. The transfer was not credited to the recipients account, so M complained to HSBC.
HSBC identified that the transfer had been made correctly, and been received by the 
recipients bank. But had not been credited to the recipients account. It requested the funds 
be returned to Ms account. 
M complained about this process. HSBCs final response confirmed that the request to 
return the funds had been chased. 
Subsequently, M received the majority of the funds back. It seems there was a slight 
deduction by the recipient bank in the amount returned. The funds were actually returned to 
HSBC a number of days before they were moved to Ms account though, and HSBC has 
offered just over £700 to compensate for this. 
I understand that M experienced issues with other transfers from the account. However, 
these transfers or related issues do not form part of this complaint. 
M was unhappy with the outcome of the situation and brought its complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. But our Investigator did not think HSBC was responsible for the funds 
not arriving with the recipient. He did also say that he thought the compensation offered 
since the final response was fair.
M remained unhappy. It considered HSBC should be responsible for consequential losses it 
had incurred as a result of the failed payment. As the Investigator was unable to resolve the 
complaint, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as our Investigator, largely for the 
same reasons. 
My role in considering this complaint has been to consider the single transfer made on 
19 September 2022. Whilst I appreciate other transfers may have been attempted, these 
and any related issues do not form part of this complaint.
It isnt entirely clear why the attempted transaction was not received by the intended 
recipient. However, I have seen nothing to suggest that HSBC is responsible for this. 
Ive then thought about what HSBC did upon the issue being discovered. Requests were 
sent to the recipient bank for the funds to be returned. And these were chased on multiple 
occasions. I am unable to say that HSBC should have done more in the circumstances.
Technically, HSBCs final response marks the limit of what falls under this complaint. And at 
the point of the that response, I dont consider HSBC had acted inappropriately. I will 
nevertheless comment on the subsequent events in relation to this particular transfer. 
I do note that it took around a month for the funds to be returned following the issue being 
discovered. But, ultimately, HSBC was waiting for the funds to be returned and this initial 
delay does not appear to be due to anything HSBC did or did not do. 
There was then a delay of around a week before the returned funds were actually 
transferred to Ms account. HSBC has acknowledged this and offered just over £700 
compensation. It has said this is based on 8% interest for M not having the funds it should 
have over this period. This is generally in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service 
would award in these circumstances. However, I also note that HSBCs calculation is based 
on 8% of £400,000. This is seemingly an error on HSBCs part, as the transfer was for 
400,000 SAR. But this means M has received an offer greater than it otherwise would have, 
so this error by HSBC is to Ms benefit. The correct interest award would be closer to £140.
I note that M has referred to consequential losses relating to this payment not being 
completed. However, as above, I do not consider the non-completion of the transfer to be 
due to any error by HSBC, so I cannot fairly and reasonably ask it to do anything further. I 
also have seen nothing to confirm that the delay between HSBC receiving the funds and 
transferring them to M caused the consequential losses referred to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman