DRN-2532371
The complaint
C  a limited company  is complaining about the amount The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) has valued its car at after it made a claim on its 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. Its also unhappy with the length of time NFU took to 
assess the claim.
C has been represented by one of its directors in this complaint  Mr L.
What happened
In April 2018 a theft took place on Cs property. Mr L parked his car in a way to try to prevent 
the thieves from leaving. But the thieves ramraided his car to enable them to escape. Mr L 
initially tried to pursue the alleged thieves for his losses. But the police ultimately concluded 
there was insufficient evidence to prosecute them. So Mr L contacted NFU to claim for the 
damage on Cs commercial vehicle insurance policy.
NFU investigated the claim and instructed a claims investigator to look into what had 
happened. NFU eventually declared Mr Ls car a total loss and said it would settle the claim 
by paying the cars market value, less the excess. And it valued the car at £3,000. Mr L 
didnt accept the valuation as he said he couldnt replace it for the same specification. And 
he highlighted it was a limited-edition commercial model. 
NFU still thought its initial valuation was fair, but it increased the valuation to £3,500 as a 
goodwill gesture. Mr L still didnt think the valuation was fair and provided adverts of similar 
models to his vehicle which he said suggested the fair valuation was between £4,000 - 
£5,000. He was also unhappy with the length of time it had taken NFU to settle the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said NFU had valued the car by using 
valuation guides, which he thought was fair. And he thought NFUs valuation was within the 
range of the guides so he thought it was fair.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Cs policy, NFU has to pay the market value of the car, less the 
excess.
The market value is defined as the amount it would cost to replace the vehicle (or trailer) 
with one of the same make, model, specification, age and condition.
NFU has valued Mr Ls car at £3,500. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main industry 
valuation guides. Mr L doesnt think this valuation is fair because he says he cant replace 
the car for the amount NFU has valued it at. And he thinks NFU has based the valuation on 
the entry level specification of his car, but his was the commercial version which he says is 
worth a lot more.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars value to take into 
account the cars age, mileage and any optional extras.
Ive looked at the valuation guides and I agree with Mr L that NFU does seem to have 
assessed the value of the vehicle against the wrong model. But Im not persuaded that this 
has meant the valuation is unfair. Ive got updated valuations from the guides myself and I 
think they give a range of between £3,900 and £4,500. But this is for a car in good condition. 
NFU has said the car was in poor condition and made a sizeable deduction for the alleged 
pre-existing damage. Given the cars age and high mileage, I think its reasonable to expect 
some wear and tear on the car. However NFU has provided photographs of the car and I 
agree with NFU that the car does have a reasonable degree of damage that wasnt accident 
related or would be considered commensurate of the age of the car. 
NFU initially deducted £500 from the cars market value for the damage and I dont think 
thats unreasonable given the non-accident related damage thats on the car. Deducting this 
from the valuation I obtained from the valuation guides, give a range of between £3,400 and 
£4,000. NFU has valued the car at £3,500 which is within the range of the guides. So I dont 
think this is an unfair valuation of the car.
C has also complained about the length of time NFU took to deal with the claim. But I dont 
think it acted unfairly. It took C 18 months to report the claim to NFU. So NFU were naturally 
going to want to investigate the claim in full. And I havent seen anything to show that it 
handled the claim unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman