DRN-2982267
Complaint
Miss T has complained about an overdraft and subsequent limit increases Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) provided to her. She says the overdraft and subsequent limit increases were 
unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Lloyds initially provided Miss T with an overdraft with a limit of £250.00 in June 2020. Within 
the space of a month the credit limit had been increased a couple of times until it reached 
£2,000.00 in July 2020.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss T and Lloyds had told us. And she thought 
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss T unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Miss Ts complaint be upheld. Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ts complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, and while I appreciate at least part of this 
complaint is finely balanced, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss T 
could afford to repay before agreeing to any credit. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds says it agreed to Miss Ts initial overdraft application and her limit increases after it 
obtained information on her income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Miss T says she had previously had credit difficulties and returned direct debits 
on this account.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss T and Lloyds have said. 
I have to start by saying that Lloyds did ask Miss T about her income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft and limit increases. And the information provided did suggest that 
what was being advanced was affordable. However, Im mindful that Miss T made three 
applications within a short period of time. And in these circumstances, I think there is an 
argument for saying that Lloyds should have taken a closer look at her circumstances before 
agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Miss Ts statements, in the lead up to the limit increases 
being provided, I dont think that there was anything concerning during this period of time. 
Miss T has referred to having returned direct debits. But an arranged overdraft was a way of 
avoiding this and any charges. Equally I think its likely that some of the previous negative 
information referred to had fallen off her credit file and thats what Lloyds is likely to have 
considered had changed in Miss Ts circumstances. 
Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly there wasnt anything in Miss Ts account 
transactions prior to the increases which contradicted what Miss T had declared during her 
applications. Indeed, Miss T has confirmed that the information she provided during her 
applications was accurate. And given the level of disposable income Miss T appears to have 
had at the time, I suspect its possible that Lloyds agreed to the limit increases within a short 
period because it was prepared to lend £2,000.00 at the outset.  
So while I have do have some concerns as to whether Lloyds checks for the final limit 
increase, in particular, did go far enough and Id say this matter is finely balanced, Miss Ts 
statements didnt contradict the income and expenditure information she provided. And as 
Lloyds was most likely prepared to agree to a limit of this size at the outset and all parties 
appear to have believed, at the time at least, that the overdraft could be repaid, I dont think 
that Lloyds treated Miss T unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her overdraft or 
the subsequent limit increases. And Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss T. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman