DRN-4060074
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the valuation of his car provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited when making a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Admiral has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It also has an obligation 
to handle insurance claims fairly.
The policy terms provide cover for damage for Mr Bs car. Its reflected that when 
Admiral gives a cash sum rather than pays for the repairs of the car (as is the case 
here), it will only pay the market value of the car. 
Market value is defined as: the cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of the similar 
make, model, year, mileage, and condition based on market prices immediately 
before the loss happenedThis value is based on research from the industry 
recognised motor trade guides. 
Given the age of Mr Bs car, only one of the industry recognised motor trade guides 
could be used to provide a valuation. And thats in line with the valuation set out in 
the independent desktop assessment.
The independent desktop assessment report dated October 2022 (the report) 
valued Mr Bs car at £2,824. In support, an advert was included from a trade website 
of a car of the same age and similar make and model being sold for £2,600. An 
increase was made to reflect that Mr Bs car had been driven around 18,000 less 
miles. 
The report describes the pre-accident condition of the interior and exterior of Mr Bs 
car as average. Mr B doesnt think thats fair; hes described it as immaculate. But I 
dont think Admiral has unfairly relied on the contents of the report, the photos of the 
car and experience of the author of the report when describing the condition of the 
car.
When submitting a complaint to our Service Mr B included adverts of cars of the 
same make and model as his. They were being advertised at between £6,999 and 
£8,250. Ive taken these adverts into account but two of the cars have been driven 
significantly less miles than Mr Bs car. And Mr Bs car was a few years older than 
the other. So, I dont think this is persuasive evidence that Admiral hasnt fairly 
offered him the market value as defined by the policy terms. 
Mr B has provided more recent adverts from a trade website showing cars of the 
same age as his car or a year younger being advertised with similar specifications.  
Theyre priced between £4,895 and £6,250 (although theres one priced above 
£10,000 which has been driven considerably less miles, so Ive placed less weight of 
that valuation). Mr B has also provided adverts on other websites showing similar 
cars a year either side of age of his car, and of different mileages and condition. One 
is described as immaculate. Theyre priced between £5,000 and £7,000. However, 
differences in mileage and year of registration can have a big impact of the value of 
the same model of car. Further these adverts are from around six months after the 
date of his loss. So, Ive placed more weight on the advert attached to the report 
which was much closer to the date of the accident. The report is provided by an 
independent third party and theyve provided evidence of a similar car available for 
sale around the time of the report  and adjustments have been made to reflect the 
lower mileage on Mr Bs car. 
Im satisfied is more reflective of the market price immediately before the loss 
occurred. Particularly as thats in line with the one industry recognised motor trade 
guide that was able to produce a valuation.
Ive seen nothing to show that Mr B provided alternative adverts of cars (of the same 
age, mileage, model and specification as his) at the time to contradict the valuation 
provided by Admiral. And although hes since provided adverts to our Service, these 
are more recent so Ive placed less weight on what they show. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman