DRN-4161428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined an 
application for a further advance on their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy at the way NatWest dealt with their complaint.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs P want NatWest to pay them compensation.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs P being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have a BTL mortgage with NatWest. In September 2022 they contacted their 
mortgage broker as they wanted to take out a further advance for home improvements and 
put a product switch in place. However, it wasnt possible for the broker to go ahead with the 
further advance, because NatWests policy was that it would only allow further advance 
applications on BTL mortgages to be made directly through the bank, rather than through a 
broker. 
Mr and Mrs P spoke to NatWest on 26 September 2022 and received an Agreement in 
Principle (AIP) for the extra amount they wanted to borrow. They needed to speak to a 
mortgage adviser, and an appointment was made for 28 November 2022, and a 
pre-appointment call was made on 18 November 2022.
Prior to that the adviser confirmed to Mr and Mrs P in an email dated 27 September 2022 
that the bank wasnt able to provide copies of its calculations that led to the AIP. The email 
also said:  
In relation to the approval in principle itself this does not constitute an offer, but 
simply provides an indication, based on the initial information that you have provided, 
of the amount that you can potentially borrow.
A Mortgage Offer will only be produced once a successful application has been 
received and fully assessed. Your mortgage application will be subject to the lending 
criteria of the day of the application (the day of our appointment [28 November 2022]) 
but once a mortgage offer has been produced it will be valid for six months from the 
date of issue.
Also in September 2022, the broker applied for a product switch, which was put in place to 
begin on 1 January 2023.
However, before Mr and Mrs P could discuss the further advance, NatWest changed its 
lending criteria, as a result of which Mr and Mrs Ps application was declined on the basis of 
affordability.
Mr and Mrs P complained. They say that the length of time NatWest took to deal with their 
application and the failure of the banks procedures in systems resulted in the banks failure 
to honour the AIP. Mrs P, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, said that NatWest 
had acted unfairly and that the bank should have honoured the AIP and offered them the 
amount they wanted to borrow.
In its final response letter NatWest explained that the application for the additional borrowing 
should have been completed first, followed by the product switch application. But it wasnt 
possible for NatWest to process an application for a further advance whilst there was a 
pending new interest rate product. 
Unfortunately, by the time Mr and Mrs P were able to discuss the further advance with 
NatWest its lending criteria had changed and the bank wasnt able to lend any additional 
funds.
NatWest acknowledged that Mr and Mrs P had spent a long time on the telephone and 
offered £50 compensation for this. But the bank didnt chance its decision to decline the 
additional borrowing.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this and raised their complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. In addition to their dissatisfaction that the bank refused to honour the AIP, they 
raised additional queries that they would like answers to:
how many of these mistakes might have happened in the context of the September 
governmental chaos, and why did NatWest not have more robust precautionary 
measures in place to prevent their customers being penalised because of it?
how have these mistakes been amplified by NatWest's demonstrated failures of 
basic clerical accuracy?
how, given how long it has taken to garner a response, has possible staffing 
incapacity further exacerbated NatWest's inability to respond to or resolve 
complaints?
what does the Financial Ombudsman Service recommend be done?
An investigator looked at what had happened. He explained that the AIP isnt a mortgage 
offer and, whilst he acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ps frustration, he didnt think NatWest was 
obliged to offer Mr and Mrs P the additional borrowing. The investigator thought the £50 
compensation was fair in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They reiterated all the points theyd previously made, but said that they 
wanted to change the terms of their complaint. Mr and Mrs P said that they didnt now want 
the additional borrowing NatWest had promised them, but would instead like compensation 
for the time spent since September 2022 trying to resolve the complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes and systems, or how they operate generally; thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We also have no power to oversee, 
sanction, punish or fine businesses  thats also the role of the FCA. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. So although Ive 
noted the questions which Mr and Mrs P would like answered about NatWests systems and 
the potential impact of the mini-budget in September 2022 on other customers or the banks 
staffing levels, those arent issues that fall within my remit.
NatWest is entitled to set its own lending policies, and I dont have any power to interfere 
with those. NatWests policy is that it will not allow further advances on BTL mortgages to be 
applied for via a broker; the customer has to contact NatWest directly. That does not seem 
to be an unreasonable policy and it is one that NatWest is entitled to implement.
In addition, where a customer requires both additional borrowing and a product switch, the 
banks policy is that, if the new interest rate product is to apply to the whole of the borrowing 
(including any additional borrowing), an application for the additional borrowing has to be 
completed first, and then the product switch applied for. Im satisfied that this is clear from 
the intermediaries portal used by the broker. Again, this is a reasonable policy, and indeed it 
is fairly standard across mainstream lenders.
Following the mini-budget that took place in September 2022 which immediately impacted 
on interest rates, there was a high demand across all sectors of the mortgage market from 
customers requiring new products. I can understand how frustrating it was that Mr and Mrs P 
werent able to get an appointment any earlier than the end of November 2022 for their 
further advance application. However, as I said above, the way NatWest organises its 
operations and staffing isnt something I have any power to consider.
NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that NatWest makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend or not are clearly discretionary matters for NatWests own 
commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Where an application does not meet 
lending criteria, NatWest isnt under any obligation to lend.
Although Mr and Mrs P have repeatedly claimed that the AIP was a binding promise from 
NatWest to lend them the money they wanted to borrow, Im not persuaded they were ever 
led to believe by NatWest that this was the case. In fact, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that the AIP wasnt a binding mortgage 
offer, and that their application would be assessed against the lending criteria applicable on 
the day of their application, on 28 November 2022. I say this because all of this was very 
clearly explained in the email from the bank dated 27 September 2022, which Ive quoted 
above.
Mr and Mrs P have confirmed they are no longer seeking the additional borrowing they 
(mistakenly) believe NatWest promised them; instead they want compensation for the time 
spent dealing with the matter from September 2022 onwards. NatWest offered Mr and Mrs P 
£50 to compensate them for the inconvenience caused for the time they spent on the 
telephone with the bank in relation to the abortive application. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.I dont have any power to award compensation for the way NatWest dealt with the complaint. 
Thats because I can only consider a complaint about a regulated activity (in this case, 
lending money secured on land) or activities ancillary to that, such as account 
administration, debt collection, etc. The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated 
activity, nor ancillary to a regulated activity. It is something that the FCA requires financial 
businesses to do, but that isnt enough to bring it within the scope of a regulated activity, or 
an ancillary activity, within the meaning of our rules. 
Given this, whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling about what they say are 
NatWests failings in relation to its handling of their complaint, I have no legal power to 
award compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, if it has not already 
done so, National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs P £50 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman