DRN-3602970
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2017, Mr C and his wife were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs C decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook (Mr C was the sole borrower). The system was subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator thought that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr C and recommended that Shawbrook pay compensation to Mr C.
Shawbrook didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the system was generating as much energy as P had estimated it would at the point 
of sale (or within 96% of the estimate, which is well within the range that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service considers to be reasonable);
the FIT payments in the first year had actually exceeded the estimated FIT income;
there was no evidence that the other savings expected from the system had been 
less than estimated;
consequently there had been no misrepresentation by P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, one titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation, which is unsigned, and one titled Getting Started, which has been signed by 
Mr C. Ive considered these, along with Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr C, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. It isnt clear which version of the quote this refers 
to, but since one has been signed and one has not, I think it is likely to mean the signed one. 
I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that the unsigned quote gives a significantly wrong 
figure for the monthly loan repayments (it is off by £10), while the signed one is almost 
correct (being off by only a few pence).
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
signed quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with 
Mr Cs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments  estimated and actual
Mr C has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Cs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period. The excerpts below are taken from the signed 
quote titled Getting Started.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £244.49. I have looked at Mr Cs FIT payments, and on average he 
has received £239.06 a year, or 98% of what P estimated. So Im satisfied that this was not 
misrepresented.
Savings
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £432.91 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,091.40. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.92. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £90.26, but the difference  66p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a positive figure for every 
year of the loan, meaning that the system would make enough money to cover the loan 
payments from the first year (although not necessarily from the first month, because FIT 
payments are paid quarterly).
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would be sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments throughout the loan term.
The CMC says this turned out to be untrue. The electricity statements it has provided are too 
incomplete for me to verify this, since although they cover the period 2013 to 2020, each 
year has different months missing, and so it is not possible to fairly compare the years 
before and after installation. Nevertheless, later in this decision (under the heading 
Performance) I will assume that the CMC is correct about this, and will explain why this 
may be so.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
I accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain period 
of time. The Key Facts page of the unsigned quote states in large font that it would take 
eight years for the overall benefits that Mr C could expect to receive to match the cash price 
of the system. However, that timescale is based on the system costing £9,528. The signed 
quote gives a reduced price of £8,609, and an estimated payback time of seven years (in the 
Putting it all together section).
The signed quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 25 
years. This too shows that during year seven the overall benefits that Mr C could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,609.
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced Mr C to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. The CMC says it is untrue, so Ive gone on to consider the performance 
of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr C.
Performance
The MCS certificate and both quotes set out that the system is expected to produce 3,707 
kWh a year. I have looked at Mr Cs FIT statements and can see that his system, on 
average, has generated 3,387 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale (91.4%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of 
energy generation, if perhaps not financially. So if Mr C has not seen the expected financial 
returns he was expecting, this is not because the system is defective, but for some other 
cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr C hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
The CMC pointed out that  based on its own review of Mr Cs FIT payments and energy 
savings  it will take him 23 years to break even. It argued that this meant that P had made 
untrue statements which had resulted in Mr C buying the system.
I am not persuaded by that point, for the reasons I have already explained in the part of my 
provisional decision headed Performance, on pages 5 and 6. So there is no reason for me 
to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here. (I have not waited for 
Shawbrooks response.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman