DRN-3425673
The complaint
Mr A says Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr A took out two instalment loans from Dot Dot Loans. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken out repaid value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £
1 05/02/2021 18/11/2021 700 9 151.20
2 23/11/2021 24/12/2021 100 3 50.90
Mr A says his financial situation was not checked sufficiently before he was given the loans. 
If the lender had checked his bank statements it would not have lent to him, his credit file 
was not up-to-date. A more thorough analysis of his income and outgoings should have 
been done.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said the lenders checks were 
proportionate and didnt show anything that ought to have led it to make different lending 
decisions.
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Dot Dot Loans was required to
establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Dot Dot Loans has told us about the checks it carried out for each loan. It asked Mr A for 
details of his monthly income and outgoings. It has told us it verified his income using 
payslips. And it checked his expenses using national averages and his credit file. This meant 
for loan 1 it increased his declared expenses from £558 to £1,185 and for loan 2 from £450 
to £1,125. 
I would note, by way of explanation for Mr A, that whilst Dot Dot Loans completed
credit checks at the time of each application the information it saw wont have been exactly
the same as Mr A could have seen on his full credit file. It may only have seen part of the
file, and some data may be missing, summarised or not up-to-date. But Dot Dot Loans
could only make its decisions based on the information available at the time from the
credit reference agencies. 
Based on the result of these checks combined Dot Dot Loans concluded Mr A could afford 
both loans.
Overall, I think Dot Dot Loans completed proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2. To decide 
this I have considered the value of the loans, the monthly repayments in relation to Mr As 
income and the stage in the lending relationship. Mr A said that the lender didnt ask for bank
statements, but this isnt something it had to do. It checked his declarations using external
data sources which I find to be proportionate in the circumstances of his loan applications. 
And I dont think there was anything in the information it gathered, that I have seen, that 
should have led it to make different lending decisions. 
I note Mr A applied for his second loan just days after settling the first, but it was for a much 
lower amount and I dont think at this stage in the lending relationship the lender ought to 
have done more. Mr A had repaid loan 1 on time each month.Mr A says the data held on his credit file wasnt up-to-date and wasnt a reliable tool to use 
as part of the checks - but as I explained previously I can only fairly expect the lender to 
respond to the data its credit checks returned. 
Ive looked carefully at the results of the credit checks Dot Dot Loans completed to see if 
there was anything in its checks that ought to have shown it there was a risk these loans 
would not be affordable for Mr A. But I cant see there was. Its checks showed Mr A had no 
defaults in the previous 12 months, and no active arrangements to pay in place. They show 
that whilst he had historically used payday loans, he had none active at the time of either 
application and hadnt applied for any in the six months prior to each application. So it didnt 
seem that Mr A was in a cycle of borrowing short-term high-cost loans to repay other such 
loans. 
I understand that may not have been the case and I accept that Mr A may have been 
struggling financially, but I dont think it would have been reasonable or proportionate for Dot 
Dot Loans to have carried out the level of financial checks needed to learn this given the 
nature of these loans; the early stage in the lending relationship; and the significant 
reduction in loan value between loans 1 and 2. 
It follows I dont think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Mr A.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman