DRN-1585112
 
The complaint
Mr P, represented by Mr M, complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a 
Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB). 
What happened
Mr P took out the GEB in 2004. Its performance was linked to the performance of the FTSE 
100 index, but it was guaranteed to return at least the amount invested, even if the index fell 
during the five-year term. Mr P committed £5,000, to which a small of interest - £15 - was 
added prior to investment. At the end of the term only the original £5,015 was returned. 
In 2019 Mr M complained to Nationwide on Mr P's behalf. He said that it had failed to 
properly take into Mr P's health and financial circumstances. Nationwide didn't uphold the 
complaint because it said no advice had been provided about the bond. It had simply 
provided information about how it worked and the risks involved and it had then been 
Mr P's decision to proceed, with a 30-day cancellation period offered if he wanted to change 
his mind. It also noted that, although the bond had made no return on Mr P's money, it had 
operated correctly, in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr M didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator 
reached the same conclusion as Nationwide. He explained that there was no evidence that 
Nationwide had carried out the usual processes associated with the provision of regulated 
advice - like completing a 'fact find' about Mr P's circumstances - and he felt this supported 
Nationwide's position that it had not given any advice to Mr P. The investigator also 
confirmed that the bond had worked in accordance with its terms and that he felt the risks 
had been made clear to Mr P. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied. He was unhappy that the investigator had relied upon a copy of 
the bonds Key Facts document, which Mr M said had not been provided to Mr P. He 
maintained that advice had been given to Mr P and that Nationwide had failed to take into 
account Mr P's health and financial status. 
Mr M also highlighted a letter sent to Mr P once the investment had been made, in which it 
was said that Nationwide "was confident that Mr P had made the right choice". Mr M felt that 
this had misleadingly given Mr P the confidence that he'd made a suitable choice. He also 
noted that investment in the bond had been available for a limited time, which would've 
prompted Nationwide staff to push for commission. And he said that the money had been 
taken from Mr P for the investment before he'd received written confirmation. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly that Mr P was misadvised about the bond and 
incorrectly persuaded into investing, when it would've been more suitable in his 
circumstances to have simply placed the money into some sort of fixed-rate deposit product. 
I note Mr P's recollections of the sale (and Mr M's, as he's confirmed he was present when 
the bond was sold). But I have to take into account that the sale took place over 15 years 
ago and recollections do become less reliable over time. But, more importantly, there is no 
documentary evidence that supports advice having been given to Mr P. If it had been, I 
would expect to see documents like a completed fact find and a formal 'reasons why' 
letter setting out the reasons why the adviser felt that the bond was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P.
Conversely, all the documentation that is available - the Key Facts and Policy Document, the 
application form - clearly indicated that this was a sale conducted without advice. For 
instance, the key facts document said that: 
 "We believe that we have given you all the information you need to make your own decision 
about our Guaranteed Equity Bond. Therefore we have not given you any advice. However, 
if you would like advice on any of our products you should contact the financial consultant at 
your local branch."
Further, the application form featured a declaration that Mr P signed to confirm that no 
advice has been given. 
This being so, I'm satisfied this was a non-advised sale and that Nationwide's responsibility 
was therefore limited to providing clear information about how the bond worked and its risks, 
so Mr P could make his own informed decision about whether to proceed. I note what Mr M 
has said about failing to take into account Mr P's serious health problems and his financial 
situation. But this is not something that it would be expected to do when making a non-
advised sale. 
Mr M has also said that Mr P didn't receive the Key Facts document and only received a 
copy of the application form once the money had been taken from him for the 
investment. But Mr P was sent confirmation of the investment in the form of a 'welcome 
letter' that included the bond schedule and policy document and which made it clear he had 
30 days in which to cancel if he wasn't happy. It also gave him a customer services number 
to call if he was concerned with the way in which the bond had been set up. 
I recognise that this is the letter in which Mr P was told that Nationwide was confident he'd 
made the right choice. But I don't think there's anything wrong in it having made that 
statement once he'd decided to proceed with his application. I don't think it was in any way 
unduly persuasive. In my view it was simply part of a polite welcome to the service and, as 
noted, was followed by contact details if Mr P felt anything wasn't right.
In summary, I'm satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and that Nationwide correctly 
carried out its responsibilities in light of that.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
James HarrisOmbudsman