DRN-3218096
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms W took out the PPI in 1998 at the same time as applying for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms W originally said that the policy was added to the card account without her knowledge or 
consent.  Ive seen a copy of the card application form that Ms W completed. There is a 
separate section for PPI with a box that needed to be ticked to request the policy. As well as 
ticking the box, Ms W has also printed her name and date of birth in that section to confirm 
herself as the person to be insured.
In response to our adjudicators view, Ms W has more recently said that she ticked the box 
because she didnt understand that the PPI was unnecessary and in fact thought that it was 
mandatory. 
Ive thought very carefully about this, but Ive also considered how long ago the sale took 
place and how this may have affected Ms Ws memory of the sale. I have no doubt that she 
has provided her genuine recollection of events but, given that the sale was in 1998, it 
wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded.
Looking at the layout and wording of the application form, it is more likely than not that Ms W 
would have known that the policy was optional. On balance, I consider that Ms W probably 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers 
doing so.  
Allianz needed to provide Ms W with sufficient information for her to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Ms W says she would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Ms W would have received full pay 
for. And Ms W didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Overall, I think 
Ms W had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Allianz could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms W wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy. As I consider that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont consider that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is 
no worse off as a result of anything Allianz may have done wrong, so theres nothing Allianz 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman