DRN-2660854
The complaint
Ms D, on behalf of the estate of Mr D, says that amongst other failings, The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) didnt provide a duty of care to her father 
when it advised him to transfer benefits from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a 
personal pension plan.
Ms D is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr D engaged with the Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (CIS) about his pension 
arrangements. CIS has since been taken over and Royal London now has responsibility for 
its historical acts and omissions in this case. To keep things simple, Ill generally refer to 
Royal London in my decision.
Mr D had accrued deferred OPS benefits from service with an employer between April 1981 
and February 1984 when hed been a member of its pension scheme. These had a transfer 
value of around £985. In 1987 he decided to transfer these benefits to a section 32 
personal pension plan. 
Section 32 plans, like personal pension plans, are money purchase arrangements. This 
means the pension is invested and the benefits the consumer will receive at retirement 
depend on how well the investments grow. Illustrations showing the benefits Mr Ds plan 
might provide at retirement based on assumed growth rates were produced.
Because Mr Ds employer had contracted-out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS), his OPS had a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). And this 
undertaking was transferred to his section 32 plan. That meant Royal London had to take on 
the responsibility to pay the GMP when he reached 65 irrespective of how well his 
investments had performed.
On transfer, Royal London guaranteed to provide a GMP of at least £92 per annum at his 
then state retirement age of 65. The GMP was re-valued at a rate of 8.5% per annum from 
the date of withdrawal - which meant his annual pension guarantee was around £1,726 by 
2020.
FR says Mr D was informed that the transfer of his deferred OPS benefits would give him a 
larger pension income in retirement. But it says he had little experience or knowledge of 
pensions or investments. And that he accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
FR says Mr D was exposed to risks that werent properly explained, such as moving from a 
position where his employer provided certain guarantees about his pension fund to one 
where he was exposed to the market. It said his funds were placed in a single, complex, and 
costly investment. And that Royal London hadnt adhered to the regulatory requirements of 
the time.
Royal London said the pension plan Mr D had entered into offered the prospect of better 
returns than thought couldve been achieved with his OPS. It noted however there were no 
guarantees provided in this regard and results depended on investment performance.
Royal London set out the process CIS wouldve followed in selling Mr D his personal 
pension. It noted he benefited from a good GMP. It also said that projections it had used in 
the illustrations provided at the time complied with industry standards.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. FR disagreed, it said:
On to the merits of your decision. You have (correctly) stated that Royal London had legal 
obligations and duties to:
1. advise with reasonable skill and care; and
2. disclose material information.
It is in respect of these legal obligations and duties that the advice was negligent. As we 
explained in the original complaint letter submitted on [Mr Ds] behalf, Royal London had a 
duty to make [him] aware of the material risks and ascertain if he was willing to accept those 
risks. It did not do so. If it had done so, [Mr D] would not have been willing to accept those 
risks.
Subsequently this Service has been informed of Mr Ds passing. His daughter, Ms D, now 
represents her fathers estate in this complaint. And as agreement couldnt be reached 
following the Investigators view, the case has been passed to me for review and a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1987. It is perhaps inevitable given the passage 
of over one third of a century that I dont have perfect information to review. Im also mindful 
of the dynamic regulatory position over that time. The way things must be done today isnt 
necessarily the way things could be done 35 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Royal London says that CIS wouldve followed a two stage process when selling the pension 
plan to Mr D. It says hed have been provided with a leaflet explaining the plan. And because 
hed been interested in transferring his OPS benefits, hed have completed the general 
enquiry form attached to it.
Royal London says Mr D would then have been provided with written confirmation of the 
benefits it was prepared to offer, based on the information provided by the Trustees of his 
OPS and the transfer value it would receive from them.Royal London has provided documentation from around the time of the transfer. This 
includes an illustration produced for Mr Ds transfer in July 1987. It indicates that by moving 
his benefits his annual pension couldve been worth around £3,221 by June 2020 when he 
reached 65. This included reversionary and vesting bonuses. 
The illustration noted the actual pension payable may be higher or lower than the figures 
quoted. It explained that bonuses added to his plan were not guaranteed and were 
dependent on future investment returns. Mr Ds illustration also confirmed his policy came 
with a GMP which would be worth over £1,700 per year by 2020.
Mr Ds CIS pension plan was arranged before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into 
force (on 29 April 1988). In effect, there werent specific regulations that firms were required 
to follow at the time. That said, businesses like CIS had to adhere to a framework of 
common law, and some guidelines from industry bodies. 
The introduction of the Financial Services Act 1986 brought about significant changes in the 
requirements on firms which arguably speaks to weaknesses of the former regime. 
Nevertheless, I must consider this case against the relevant laws, regulations and standards 
of the time.
Prior to April 1988, there was no regulatory requirement for the business to give advice, or to 
ensure that the policy was suitable. If a firm did give advice it had a legal duty to advise with 
reasonable care and skill. And if it provided information, it had a duty not to misrepresent 
matters.
Bearing these matters in mind, even if I accept he was encouraged to transfer his pension by 
Royal London and ultimately persuaded by the adviser, I havent seen evidence which leads 
me to conclude the transaction was unfair to him.
My conclusion here is strengthened by what we know about some of Mr Ds circumstances 
at the time of the transfer of his OPS benefits. He was 32 years old and had a normal 
retirement age of 65. So, he was many years away from retirement. The benefits he was 
transferring were relatively modest. And from the illustration hed been provided with, there 
seemed a reasonable prospect of growing this element of his pension provision. 
Mr Ds funds were invested in a with-profits fund, which could reasonably be regarded as a 
cautious plan. And Ive seen nothing which makes me think the projections were out of kilter 
with industry norms. While standard projection rates were not introduced across the industry 
until July 1988, its instructive at that point the lower, mid and upper rates for pension returns 
were 8.5%, 10.75% and 13% respectively. The corresponding return rates from 2014 were 
substantially lower at 2%, 5% and 8%.
At the time Mr D decided to transfer his pension benefits, it wouldve appeared there was a 
reasonable prospect hed be better off at retirement as a result. Unfortunately, factors 
affecting the whole sector including lower investment returns, lower annuity rates and 
changes in life expectancy, have led to significantly reduced prospects for pension plans like 
the one he held.
The documents Ive seen, which I think its more likely than not were representative of the 
information provided to Mr D, make clear that the illustrations were not a guarantee of 
investment returns. 
Further, any risk Mr D was taking on was somewhat mitigated because his plan benefitted 
from a GMP.From the available documentation, it seems Mr D had been exploring the transfer of his OPS 
pension benefits from as early as 1986, so it certainly wasnt the case that he was rushed 
into the decision he took.
Overall, having reviewed all the information available to me, FR hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me that the advice it says Mr D received in 1987 shouldve been considered 
inappropriate at the time given the relevant law and industry best practice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman