DRN-3484825
The complaint
Mr C complains that Plus500UK Ltd re-categorised him as an elective professional client 
despite him not meeting the required criteria. He has a gambling addiction, and feels 
Plus500 shouldve recognised and acted upon this, as the increased leverag e the 
professional status provide d him with led to increased losses on his trading account.
What happened
The circumstance s of the complaint will b e familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Inste ad, Ill briefly recap the key points: 
Mr C opened an account with Plus500 as a retail client in 2017.
In April 2018, prompted by an announcement that the European Securities and  
Markets Authority (ESMA) was to introduce new protective measures for the  
provision of CFDs to retail clients, Mr C enquired about what this would mean for  
leverage limits on his account.
Plus500 provided some information about the new measures, which among other  
things set maximum leverage levels for retail accounts. It also highlighted that these 
maximums wouldnt apply to professional clients.
A couple of months later in July 2018, Mr C applied to be re-categorised as an  
elective professional client. However, his application was turned down at that point  
because he didnt demonstrate that he met the necessary criteria  specifically,  
sufficient trading activity over the previous four quarters.
Mr C indicated his dissatisfaction with Plus500s decision to turn him down. He 
highlighted his extensive trading experience with other 
providers in previous years  
along with his financial status. But his application was still not approved. He was 
reminded on several occasions over the following weeks that he needed to provide  
further evidence of his trading activity, but nothing was forthcoming.
Mr C continued to carry out a significant volume of trading with Plus500 and in  
August 2018 it pro-actively completed his application process and re-categorised him  
as a professional client. This was on the basis that, by this point, he had  
demonstrated the required trading activity on his Plus500 account alone. Mr C was 
informed of the re-categorisation of his account.
Mr C then continued to trade with Plus500 as a professional client in very significant  
volumes for the next two years.
In June 2020, following an issue with making deposits to the account, Mr C 
complained to Plus500 that the issue had caused him a loss. He also began to raise 
more general concerns about the account and Plus500. He indicated he had a  
gambling problem and thoughts of harming himself. In response, Plus500 refunded  
losses caused by the deposit problems, restricted his account, then closed it shortly 
after.
In January 2021 Mr C made a more detailed complaint to Plus500, covering a variety  
of issues  his account status, risk warnings, leverage, advertising and fees. Plus500  
didnt uphold any aspect of the complaint as, in brief, it was satisfied Mr C had been  
correctly re-categorised as a professional client and that his account has been  
administered correctly in all other respects.
Mr C then referred the matter to this service in March 2021. 
An investigator considered the evidence and Mr Cs concerns but also didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She said, in brief:
She was satisfied Mr Cs account had been correctly assessed for appropriateness at 
the outset and that the process had demonstrated his knowledge and experience of  
this type of trading.
Plus500 provided an execution-only service, so thered been no requirement that the 
account and Mr Cs ongoing trading activity be monitored.
It had explained why Mr Cs application to be re-categorised as a professional client  
had been initially turned down, what it had required for the application to be  
successful and how this requirement had been met by August 2018.
Plus500 had also cross-referred Mr Cs trading activity with the information hed  
provided to it and felt that the account funding was consistent with what it had been  
told about Mr Cs income and the size of his portfolio.
The application process included the provision of information to Mr C about the risks 
associated with the features of a professional account compared with a retail account
 particularly in respect of leverage levels.
She was satisfied all other related processes had been properly followed  thered  
been no excessive marketing, no approaches made to Mr C once the account was  
closed, and any bonuses paid to his account had been in line with ESMA guidance.
Plus500 had restricted the account once it had been aware of Mr Cs difficulties, then  
closed it. Thered been no reason prior to this for it to suspect any issues.  
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He maintained that he shouldnt have been re-
categorised as professional as his financial position hadnt been as hed indicated. He said 
he was borrowing mone y to fund his trading and che cks Plus500 shouldve carried out 
wouldve shown thi s to be the case. He sa id it couldnt have checked his company accounts 
at the time of his professional application in 2018  thi s had only been done in response to 
the complaint.
He felt that Plus500 shouldnt have proceeded further with the application once hed failed to 
provide the requested additional evidence of trading activity. And it shouldve been aware he 
had a gambling addiction, as his behaviour and trading history was well-known, including to 
many people within the industry.
Although she sympathised with Mr Cs situation, the investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change her opinion. So as no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me 
to review.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise that Mr C will be very disappointed, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investig ator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explai n why in more 
detail. 
Although, as noted above, Mr Cs main complaint to Plus500 made in January 2021 covered 
several issues, I think its fair to say that his prima ry concern centres on the re-categorisation 
of him as a professional client in August 2018. He feels that Plus500 wrongly and unfairly 
created a situation whereb y the subsequent losse s made fro m his high volume of trading 
were significantly magnified by the absence of the restricted leverage level s that applied to 
retail accounts.  
Looking in more detail at the circumstances around Mr Cs application to be re-categorised, 
it appears that he first asked Plus500 about the new leverage restrictions at the end of April 
2018. He w as given some information, which pointed out th at a professional account would 
not be subj ect to the new restrictions. 
He then began the process of applying for re-categorisation some months later, in early July 
2018. Over the course of the next couple of days there was correspondence between Mr C 
and Plus500 in which he was informed that his application couldnt procee d as he hadnt 
demonstrated sufficient recent trading activity. 
The requirements for a business to treat a client as an elective professional client are set out 
in the Financial Cond uct Authoritys Conduct of Busine ss Sourcebook at COBS 3.5.3. In 
brief, a business is required to assess the knowledge and experience of a client to 
reasonably assure itself that they can make their own decisions and understand the risks 
involved. Furth er, the client must satisfy at least two of three criteri a around previous trading 
activity, the size of their financial portfolio and their financial sector work experience. 
Mr C didnt have the relevant work experience, so it was the first two criteria that were 
pertine nt to hi s applicatio n. Upon receipt of it Plus500 wa s satisfied he met the portfolio 
criteria, based on the figures hed provided when he opened the account at the end of 2017 
and when he made the application to be re-categorised. However, as note d, Plus500 didnt 
feel that hed provided sufficient evidence in respect of his trading activity, for which the 
specific criterion was the need to have  carried out transactions, in significant size, on the 
relevant market at an average frequency of ten per quarter over the previous four quarters . 
Mr C explained that hed had a break from trading prior to opening his account with Plus500 
in 2017. But he supplied documentation showing his considerable trading activity prior to this 
break. He also voiced his dissatisfaction with Plus500s decision, highlighting his 
professional background and stressing his considerable experience of trading very 
signifi cant, highly leveraged positio ns. But Plus500 maintained its position and reiterated the 
need for it to be demonstrated th at he met the trading activity criteria as set out in COBS. 
Plus500 followed up with several reminders of the evidence that was needed but as noted, 
there was no response from Mr C. Despite this, some weeks later in August 2018, it 
reviewed the situation and concluded that by this point the trading hed carried out on his 
Plus500 account alone by was sufficient to satisfy the criteria  hed traded significant 
volumes over four quarters, well in excess of the requirement for an average frequency of 10 
significant transactions per quarter. He was sent a message by Plus500 explaining that his 
professional account application had now been approved.  Ive thought carefully about the approach Plus500 took to Mr Cs application. While it clearly 
had regard for the rules and relevant criteria  demonstrated b y it seeki ng further evidence 
of his trading activity  Im conscious that it chose to pro-actively complete the application 
despite Mr C failing to respond to its requests for further evidence.
But that said, Plus500 had received a formal application from hi m, foll owing which he made 
it very clear that he felt he satisfied the criteri a, providing evidence to support his vie w, and 
strongly voicing his dissatisfaction with Plus500s decision no t to proceed. He subsequently 
gave no indication that hed changed hi s mind and that he no longer wished to be re-
categorised. He continued to trade a t very high volumes and was clearly informed when 
Plus500 reviewed the matter and re-categorised hi m. He d idnt say at that point that he no 
longer wanted to be re-categorised, and he wouldve been aware of the highe r leverage that 
was available to him as he continued to trade for the next two years. 
Clearly given Mr Cs situation and his gambling issues its clear why he might not have 
acted to prevent the re-categorisation and I accept that the change to the account wouldve 
magnified losses (and gains) for his subseque nt trading. But having reviewed the way in 
which Plus500 handled the application for re-categorisation, despite the somewhat unusual 
circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that it acted incorrectly such that it 
should be held responsible for any losses incurred by Mr C. 
I note also that Mr C has challenged that he met the criteria regarding portfolio size, saying 
that he didn t at the time of the application, or indeed at any ti me, have the required 
€500,000 portfolio. But he stated he did have thi s size of portfolio when h e originally applied 
to Plus500 , and he confirmed it in more detail when he applied for his accou nt to be re-
categorised. In the context of the level of deposits he was making to his Plus500 account, 
the information provided by Mr C wouldve been plausible. So, I also dont think it acted 
unreasonably in this respect. 
I have great sympathy with Mr Cs situation and entirely understand why he feels the way he 
does about what happened. This has clearly been a very difficult situation for him as the 
amounts of mone y involved are substantial and his health has been impacted. 
But in the context of what Plus500 knew about his circumstances and given the type of 
trading involved  and with the facility being provided on an execution-onl y basis  I dont 
think there was anything that would, or should, have acted as a red flag to suggest there 
might be an issue. For instance, the problem with depositing to the account that Mr C 
encountered in June 2020  caused by hi m hitting the daily li mit o n numbers of deposits (as 
opposed to size of deposits)  had not previously happened in over two years of trading. 
Once Plus500 was made aware of Mr Cs situation and problems in June 2020 it acted to 
restrict his trading and Ive no reason to think it wouldnt have done so sooner if similar 
information had come to light. This is what I would exp ect it to have done, in line with its 
overarching responsibilities to act fairly, responsibly and in the interests of a consumer. 
Mr C has indicated that he told Plus500 on multiple occasions about his issues prior to June 
2020 . But having carefully reviewed all the evidence Ive seen nothing to support a finding 
that it had previously failed to respon d or act wh en asked for help with his issues while he 
was trading with it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
James Harris
Ombudsman