DRN-4486758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were unable to contact Inter Partner Assistance SA when 
they needed medical assistance whilst abroad. 
What happened
Mrs P fell whilst on holiday and injured her back, foot and ankle. She wanted to access 
medical treatment but says she couldnt contact IPA to discuss this despite making repeated 
attempts to phone their assistance line. She says this meant she spent the holiday in a lot of 
pain which ruined an expensive holiday for a special occasion and has potentially impacted 
on her longer-term recovery. 
IPA offered Mrs P a total of £200 compensation. They said the number was fully operational. 
However, they acknowledged Mrs P wouldnt have been able to get an immediate response 
from the email address provided on the assistance line and thats what shed have needed. 
Unhappy, Mrs P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She thought the £200 compensation offered 
was fair. She acknowledged Mrs P had experienced issues in contacting IPA but didnt think 
they were responsible for Mrs P not accessing medical treatment and impact this had on her 
holiday. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She thought the investigator hadnt taken into account that she wasnt 
able to contact IPA by email and that the insurance policy wasnt fit for purpose. She 
explained shed just had surgery on her foot and was no where near recovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
I think the £200 compensation offered is fair and reasonable. I say that because: 
Mrs P was unable to contact IPA by phone. The reasons for that are unclear as the 
number was operational and there were no other reported issues about the line at the 
relevant time. So, I cant fairly rule out that there were other factors which impacted 
on Mrs Ps ability to contact IPA, such as more general issues with using her phone 
whilst abroad or other factors beyond IPAs control. Given that there were no other 
reported issues with the phone line I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
this was something, on balance, that IPA was responsible for.  
Mrs P has said that she wasnt able to make contact with IPA and their agents via 
email. I cant direct IPA to change their processes and procedures. However, I can 
see that in their final response letter IPA acknowledged the feedback and agreed to 
take action. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
I dont think its fair to conclude that IPA should refund Mrs Ps premiums. Mrs P still 
had the benefit of cover for this trip, and any other trips she wanted to take during the 
policy year. That includes the legal cover Mrs P may wish to utilise. 
Mrs P has had to take time off work and has had to have surgery on her foot. Im 
sure that its been a difficult and worrying time for her. However, these issues stem 
from the accident itself. And, in any event, Ive not been provided with any medical 
evidence which confirms her recovery or prognosis was impacted by not accessing 
treatment abroad. 
Ive considered what Mrs P has said about not wanting to incur medical expenses 
without speaking to IPA first, especially as shes aware that insurers sometimes wont 
reimburse the costs incurred. However, I think she did have the option to seek 
medical treatment if she wanted to. So, I dont think its fair to conclude that IPA 
prevented her from doing so. 
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £200 to Mr and Mrs P to settle 
the complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay £200 to Mr and Mrs P if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman