DRN-2768368
The complaint
Ms B complains that the advice Pensionhelp Limited gave her to transfer her deferred 
benefits from a defined benefits occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2017 Ms B was referred to Pensionhelp by another financial adviser to discuss her 
deferred occupational pension scheme benefits.
The suitability report prepared by Pensionhelp in October 2017 set out that Ms B was in her 
early forties and was married with three financially dependent children. The adviser noted 
that Ms B had an annual salary of £23,000 and was a member of her employers group 
personal pension (GPP). She had around £19,000 in an ISA and held shares worth around 
£30,000.
Ms B had a mortgage of £100,000 on her home (owned jointly with her husband) and her 
home was estimated to be worth around £310,000. She also had a mortgaged buy-to-let 
property worth £200,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £104,000. I understand that the 
rental income covered the mortgage on the buy-to-let property.
The adviser recorded that Ms B was hoping to retire at around age 60 and that her attitude 
to investment risk was adventurous.
At the time the advice to transfer was given, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
Ms Bs deferred defined benefits pension was over £255,000. She also had a small 
additional voluntary contribution (AVC) plan worth around £2,000, giving a total transfer 
value of over £257,000.
Pensionhelp advised Ms B to transfer her CETV to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
In the suitability report it provided to Ms B, it said she wanted;
greater flexibility in how you can take your benefits including the option to access your tax-
free cash lump sum (Pension Commencement Lump Sum  referred to in the rest of the 
report as PCLS) when required without having to commence pension payments at the 
same time. You would also like the potential to pass your pension funds on to your family 
eventually rather than be limited to the more restricted benefits paid by the Scheme on 
death.
Pensionhelp received a fee of over £7,600 (deducted from Ms Bs CETV lump sum) for its 
initial advice. It also applied an on-going management annual fee of 0.5% of the fund value.
In February 2020 Ms B complained to Pensionhelp about the advice it had given her to 
transfer her deferred occupational pension scheme benefits. She said she felt she had been 
completely mis-sold and had been advised to take a highly risky course of action.
She said she felt the adviser had put words in her mouth and said she had not told the 
adviser she didnt want the guaranteed income she would have received from the 
occupational scheme. And she said that the risks and implications of re-structuring her 
pension benefits in order to have a flexible income in retirement had not been made clear to 
her.
Ms B also said she hadnt understood the value of the benefits she was being advised to 
give up. She said that if she had understood the level of risk involved, to match the benefits 
available from the occupational scheme, she would not have gone ahead with the pension 
transfer.
Ms B said she was;
now aware the return of 6% per annum, year in year out after charges is a very ambitious 
prospect. Had you told me how valuable the benefits were I was giving up in the [name of 
employer] scheme it would have changed my opinions on how much risk I was happy to 
take. I now find myself in the unenviable position of having to take lots of investment risk in 
order to stand a chance of providing similar benefits to those I have given up.
Pensionhelp did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. It said that, having reviewed the pension 
transfer advice it had given Ms B it found no evidence that it had provided unsuitable 
advice. It said its advice had been suitable for Ms Bs circumstances, needs and objectives,
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Pensionhelps response and referred the matter to this service.
Having reviewed all the information provided, our investigator said she was of the view that 
Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. 
She explained that, when considering whether to transfer a defined benefit pension plan, the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out that an adviser should, as 
a starting point, assume that transferring would be unsuitable and would need to clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best interests. 
COBS19.1.6 sets out 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
She said that, in order to assess whether the transfer was suitable, she had considered 
whether there was a reasonable chance that Ms B would be better off in retirement if she 
went ahead with Pensionhelps recommendation to transfer her deferred pension benefits. 
She said that a transfer that resulted in a similar level of benefit was unlikely to be 
considered sufficient, when the risk of losing the guaranteed benefits of the occupational 
scheme were taken into account, unless there were other highly motivating factors to risk a 
transfer that could leave a consumer worse off.
She noted that the transfer analysis (TVAS) report, carried out in 2017, gave a critical yield 
(the amount of growth required each year to match the value of the benefits available from 
the occupational scheme) at age 62 of 6.71% per year without taking tax free cash, or 5.64% 
per year if a tax-free lump sum was taken.At age 60 the TVAS report set out that Ms Bs pension pot would need to grow by 6.86% 
each year to match the benefits she would receive from her occupational scheme, if no tax-
free cash was taken, or by 5.55% each year if tax free cash was taken.
Our investigator explained that the FCAs Final Guidance FG17/9 sets out how businesses 
can calculate future discount rates in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer is upheld.
She said these discount rates were a useful indication of the growth rates that would have 
been considered reasonably achievable, at the time Pensionhelp advised Ms B to transfer 
her deferred benefits. 
The TVAS report set out that the critical yield required to match the occupational pension 
scheme benefits Ms B was giving up, based on a retirement age of 62 was 6.71% per year, 
(5.64% if tax free cash was taken). She said the closest discount rate to this time frame (as 
published on the Financial Ombudsman Service website) for the period before 1 October 
2017 was a rate of 4.5% per year for a consumer with 20 years to retirement. 
But she noted that Pensionhelp had set out that one of Ms Bs objectives was to retire at 
around age 60, not age 62. The critical yield required to match the occupational scheme 
benefits Ms B was being advised to give up, at a retirement age of 60 was 6.86% per year 
(5.55% if tax free cash was taken). The closest discount rate published by this service for the 
period before 1 October 2017 was 4.4% per year for a consumer with 18 years to retirement.
She explained that this meant that an annual growth rate of 4.4% was considered to be 
reasonably achievable, if Ms B took her pension benefits at age 60. 
But she noted that for Ms Bs pension pot to grow sufficiently to match (not exceed) the 
benefits Ms B was being advised to give up, her pension pot needed to grow by at least 
1.1% more each year than the growth rate considered to be reasonably achievable.
Our investigator said that in order for the transfer to be viable, she felt there needed to be a 
reasonably achievable opportunity to exceed the critical yield in order to improve the benefits 
 otherwise she could not safely find that it would be in Ms Bs best interests to give up the 
guaranteed benefits available in her occupational scheme.
She said that, even taking into account Ms Bs adventurous attitude to investment risk, she 
wasnt satisfied that Ms B was likely to be better off in retirement if she transferred her 
deferred pension benefits and gave up the guarantees she was entitled to.
She said she had also considered whether there were other, highly motivating factors that 
meant it was in Ms Bs best interests to risk a transfer that could leave her worse off in 
retirement.
Having done so she noted that Ms B hadnt actively sought advice about the pension 
transfer. Ms B said the advice only came about after shed met with her husbands IFA to 
discuss a different matter and the adviser had asked about her pension provisions. 
Ms B said the only reason she had continued with the advice to transfer was because shed 
been told that if she transferred the investment growth on her pension pot would turn it into a 
life changing amount. 
Pensionhelp said Ms Bs main objective for the transfer was that she wanted to be able to 
access her pension flexibly. But the investigator said she hadnt seen anything to show Ms B 
had a genuine need to access her pension via drawdown. She also said she felt Ms Bs objective to retire at age 60 and supplement her income as 
needed could have been achieved without transferring her deferred occupational pension 
benefits. And she said she felt it was likely that Ms Bs income in retirement would be higher 
if she had remained in the occupational scheme, than could reasonably be achieved by the 
personal arrangement recommended by Pensionhelp.
She noted that Ms B was in her early forties at the time the advice was given and had 
around 18 years to her intended retirement age. She said she was mindful that Ms Bs 
circumstances might change significantly over the next 18 years and this in turn could have 
a significant impact on Ms Bs attitude and capacity for risk. 
So, although the adviser had recorded that Ms B felt she could risk losing some of this 
pension in order to try to achieve a higher rate of investment growth she wasnt satisfied, 
given Ms Bs personal and financial circumstances, that this might not change in the future. 
With regard to the enhanced death benefits that Pensionhelp said were also a 
consideration for Ms B, our investigator said she didnt think this was a legitimate reason to 
justify advising Ms B to give up the guaranteed benefits available from her occupational 
scheme. She said that if Ms B had wanted to increase the money available to her family if 
she died the adviser should have considered arranging additional life cover for Ms B to meet 
this objective.
In order to put matters right she said Pensionhelp should, as far as possible, put Ms B in the 
position she would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. She said Pensionhelp should 
also pay Ms B £250 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused her.
Pensionhelp did not accept our investigators view. It provided a detailed response 
reiterating that it felt the advice it had provided to Ms B was suitable and met her stated 
objectives. 
In summary it said:
We agree that if the recommendation had been to retain the existing benefit, [Ms B] would 
probably have done that. However, that was not the most suitable option. She did not need 
the benefits and they would provide a taxable income in an inappropriate format, whereas 
the alternative gave her the flexibility she required, whilst also allowing her to preserve death 
benefits for her husband and potentially provide an inheritance for her children. It would not 
have been in her best interests to retain the scheme benefits and so that recommendation 
would have been unsuitable.
It said the suitability of a pension transfer had been driven by the consumer's circumstances 
needs and objectives and it did not accept that the critical yield was a relevant factor in 
determining whether the pension transfer was suitable. 
It explained that it felt:
A Pension Transfer Specialist would not suggest to a client that they could obtain better 
benefits from the alternative plan. It is the shape of the benefits which differs and so may be 
more appropriate for their needs, aims and objectives.
As identified earlier, the alternative plan does exactly that for [Ms B] and that is why the 
transfer is suitable.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the advice Pensionhelp gave Ms B to transfer her deferred 
occupational scheme benefits to a SIPP was suitable. Ill explain why.
I note that Pensionhelp has provided a very detailed response to this service. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service and I am not required to address every point raised. I 
have instead focussed on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint.
Assumptions about Ms Bs future circumstances
At the time the advice was given Pensionhelp said Ms B was seeking advice on her deferred 
pension benefits as:
You have indicated that your priorities are to have greater flexibility in how you can take your 
pension benefits, to be able to maximise your PCLS with a potential loss of income, to 
guarantee your spouses death benefits and to be able to maximise your income with a 
potential loss of guarantees.
You stated that you do not depend upon this pension and you are prepared to take some 
risks. You accept that the fund value on transfer is likely to fluctuate, and you have a high 
capacity for loss.
You want to achieve higher medium term returns than inflation and you understand there 
may be occasional extended periods where the investments might fall. You are not 
concerned about falls in value as you would expect the pension fund to recover any falls by 
the time you need to start taking withdrawals from your pension.
I think, given Ms Bs personal and financial circumstances at the time the advice was given, 
Pensionhelp should have done more to understand why Ms B was so confident that she 
would not need to depend upon this pension and had a high capacity for loss. 
It seems to me unusual that a young parent with three dependent children, modest savings, 
a mortgage and earning £23,000 per year would have such a bullish view on the level of risk 
she was willing to take with her main source of income in retirement. Even if Ms B was 
willing to take a high level of risk, I am not persuaded that, at the time the advice was given, 
Ms B did have a high capacity for loss.
As Pensionhelp has acknowledged in its most recent response to this service, this pension 
pot represented 35% of the total assets Ms and Mr B held. In calculating their assets 
Pensionhelp included the equity in Mr and Ms Bs home, their buy-to-let property and the 
value of their money purchase pension plans. It said it believed that this pension pot, 
would therefore be a significantly lower proportion of their assets by the time they retired, 
in 19 years' time. By then, both mortgages would be cleared, and their pension pots and 
other investments would have grown.
These figures are relevant in considering her capacity for loss or ability to replace the [name 
of employer] pension. They are however, in current terms and as retirement was many years 
away, the analysis undertaken by Pensionhelp also included Cash Flow Forecasts. Those 
confirmed that the transfer would allow them to meet their income requirements - based on 
current expenditure plus 2.5% per annum inflation.But, as Pensionhelp ought to have considered, there is no guarantee that Ms Bs personal 
and financial circumstances will remain the same over the course of the next 18 years. For 
example, Ms or Mr B may well choose, or be unable to continue working full time. 
Were this to be the case they may need to dip into their savings or downsize and it is 
unlikely that in such circumstances their current level of pension contributions would be 
maintained. I am therefore not persuaded that Pensionhelp acted reasonably when it 
accepted at face value that Ms B had, and would continue to have, a high capacity for loss 
based on its assumption that this pension pot would definitely be a significantly lower 
proportion of their assets by the time they retired.
growth required to match scheme benefits
In its response to this service Pensionhelp said it didnt think it was reasonable for our 
investigator to have considered the level of growth Ms Bs pension pot would need to 
achieve each year, to match the level of benefits she would be entitled to from her defined 
benefits pension, when assessing whether the advice to transfer was suitable. It said:
A Pension Transfer Specialist would not suggest to a client that they could obtain better 
benefits from the alternative plan. It is the shape of the benefits which differs and so may be 
more appropriate for their needs, aims and objectives.
As the investigator set out, in order to match the benefits Ms B would be entitled to from the 
occupational scheme she was being advised to give up, at a retirement age 60 the growth 
required was 6.86% per year (or 5.55% if tax free cash was taken). 
The closest discount rate published by this service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
4.4% per year for a consumer with 18 years to retirement. So, in order to match the benefits 
Ms B was being advised to give up, her pension pot would need to grow at, at least 1.1% 
more each year than the growth rate considered reasonably achievable.
I think these figures showed what would be relinquished, in monetary terms, by transferring. 
Its not in dispute that Pensionhelp provided warnings on the guarantees Ms B was giving 
up. But, as Pensionhelp will appreciate, risk warnings alone dont make unsuitable advice 
suitable. Pensionhelp needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that 
giving up the guarantees and taking on the investment risk was a suitable course of action 
for Ms B.
Pensionhelp says that when considering the suitability of its advice it shouldnt be restricted 
to monetary considerations and it says that what was important to Ms B was the shape of 
the benefits.
I am mindful of Pensionhelps position, but the prospect of an alternative arrangement not 
matching the scheme benefits, in monetary terms, on the basis of reasonable assumptions 
does make it all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were sufficiently 
compelling. I have therefore carefully considered these reasons.
requirement to change the shape of the benefits 
Pensionhelp says this was a key objective for Ms B. In the suitability report it said:
- Your existing Scheme pension does not meet your preferences in terms of how you wish to 
be able to access your pension fund in retirement. You wish to have full flexibility with your 
pension as opposed to trying to replicate the Scheme benefits.- You will be able to take higher levels of income in the early years of your retirement and 
then reduce it in later years, for example when your State Pensions become payable. This 
flexibility is not available to you from the Scheme. You are aware that taking a higher PCLS 
and income in the early years will have an impact on the pension/income you will receive in 
the future.
- You require the ability to vary any income payments to suit your needs and take account of 
your other income and tax position. You wish to be able to access your pension fund at will, 
and you do not want a guaranteed pension income payable to you from the Scheme.
It isnt clear to me why Ms B needed such flexibility. 
Ive carefully considered whether Ms B could have met her objectives of retiring at age 60 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by her occupational pension scheme.
I accept that there was no facility for Ms B to take tax free cash from her occupational 
scheme at age 60 without also starting to take an income.
But by age 60, (using the same assumptions made by Pensionhelp, that Ms B continued to 
work full time and contribute to her GPP) she would have accrued around 20 years worth of 
contributions in the GPP. And so, its likely that she could have chosen to take her GPP pot 
benefits flexibly to cover any income shortfall, from age 60, together with the guaranteed 
benefits from her defined benefits occupational pension from age 62, if required, until she 
became eligible for a state pension.
In my view it is likely that she would have been able to rely upon the accrued benefits from 
the GPP pot  and she could have determined the shape of the benefit she took from this 
pension pot to take higher levels of income in the early years of your retirement and then 
reduce it in later years, for example when your State Pensions become payable.
I am therefore not satisfied that Ms B needed to transfer her deferred defined benefits in 
order to meet her objective to vary any income payments to suit your needs and take 
account of your other income and tax position.
I think Pensionhelp should have carefully considered how Ms B could have used her GPP 
pot when considering her objective of being able to vary her income in retirement.
I appreciate that Ms B was recorded as having an adventurous attitude to investment risk, 
and I think she could have invested her GPP pot in-line with her stated attitude to risk if she 
was keen to expose a portion of her long-term savings to a higher level of investment risk.
My view is that the defined benefits should not have been relinquished lightly in favour of a 
flexibility, which could in any case have been met by fairly uncomplicated planning around 
Ms Bs GPP pot, allowing her to take a higher level of income from this pension pot until she 
became eligible for a state pension.
Death benefits
Pensionhelp says Ms B wanted, 
to restructure the death benefits from your pension to ensure that the full value of the fund 
on death is available as a lump sum benefit or income once you have passed away. You do 
not want your beneficiaries to be restricted to the income only option. 
In other words, after the transfer, in the event of Ms Bs death a lump sum would be payable 
to her beneficiaries, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the 
scheme.I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Ms Bs benefits. Firstly, it does not 
appear that she had any health issues which would mean that death benefits, or the 
likelihood that she would not benefit from a pension income derived of her scheme 
membership upon retirement for a reasonable amount of time, were of concern.
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals family. I accept that the 
financial wellbeing of her family would inevitably have been a priority for Ms B, but the 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Ms Bs best interests in 
terms of her retirement needs.
And under the schemes terms, Ms Bs husband would in any case have been entitled to a 
spouses pension, and her children would have received a dependents pension (up to age 
23 if they remained in education) if Ms Bs husband had pre-deceased her. I am also mindful 
that the fund value of her GPP would also have been available as a lump sum.
It isnt clear from the information recorded at that time the advice was given, why 
Pensionhelp didnt consider advising Ms B to take out additional life cover if she wanted to 
leave a lump sum for her family, rather than transferring her defined benefits pension. And 
there is nothing that sets out why a lump sum was so important to Ms Bs family that it would 
justify a transfer of Ms Bs guaranteed benefits.
I accept that Ms B had an entirely understandable desire to leave a financial legacy to her 
family, but this objective could have been met by taking out additional life cover. I dont think 
it was of sufficient importance to justify Ms B compromising the security of her own 
retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but I dont think the right 
conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Ms B retaining her deferred benefits 
were present here.
I think the objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against 
the guaranteed benefits Ms B was relinquishing, and I think Pensionhelp should have 
advised Ms B that her own financial security in retirement should take priority.
So, for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Ms Bs family 
by way of transferring her defined benefits pension constituted sufficient reason to transfer 
and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Ms B.
Summary 
Ive very carefully considered whether the advice provided to Ms B was suitable based on 
her personal and financial circumstances. Pensionhelp says:
 
A Pension Transfer Specialist would not suggest to a client that they could obtain better 
benefits from the alternative plan. It is the shape of the benefits which differs and so may be 
more appropriate for their needs, aims and objectives.
As identified earlier, the alternative plan does exactly that for [Ms B] and that is why the 
transfer is suitable.However, I am mindful that Ms B says she was persuaded to go ahead with the transfer 
because she was led to understand that if she transferred the investment growth on her 
pension pot would turn it into a life changing amount. 
As I set out above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income outweighed 
the guaranteed benefits of the scheme, and I think that Ms Bs objective of flexible income 
needs could have been met by well-planned access to her GPP pot when she retired at age 
60. 
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that Ms Bs objective of controlling the shape 
of her pension benefits was a sufficiently compelling reason for Ms B to give up valuable 
benefit guarantees.
And I think, if properly discussed, Ms B would have understood that in order to meet her 
objective to restructure your pension benefits in line with your own requirements, she was 
being advised to give up important guaranteed benefits for the sake of income flexibility, 
which she didnt need and could in any case access in other ways. And that she would 
instead receive a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns.
Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different 
format. As I set out above, I dont think this should have been a more important 
consideration than Ms Bs own retirement guarantees which she was being advised to give 
up.
I am also mindful that if Ms B wanted to take a high level of investment risk with her long-
term retirement savings (in line with her adventurous attitude to investment risk) she could 
have been advised to meet this objective by investing her GPP pot in higher risk funds whilst 
retaining the valuable guarantees attached to her defined benefits occupational scheme.
Although I am mindful of the comments Pensionhelp has made about the critical yield, I think 
it is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. The critical yield 
was, based upon the growth rates deemed achievable by the industry regulator, unlikely to 
be achievable, to even match the scheme benefits Ms B was being advised to give up.
The justification for transferring was that, monetary considerations aside, it was suitable in 
view of Ms Bs stated objectives.
I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of 
a transfer, but I am not satisfied that what Pensionhelp considers to have been the other 
justifications for proceeding with the transfer were sufficiently important when weighted 
against the guarantees Ms B was advised to relinquish.
Having carefully considered this matter my decision is that the recommendation to transfer 
wasnt suitable for Ms B, nor was it in her best interests. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. 
Pensionhelp Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Bs acceptance of the decision.
Pensionhelp Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Ms Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms B within 90 days of the date 
Pensionhelp Limited receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Pensionhelp Limited to pay Ms B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition, Pensionhelp Limited should pay Ms B £250 for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused her.
Determination and money award: 
I require Pensionhelp Limited to pay Ms B the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Ms B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I can only require Pensionhelp 
Limited to pay Ms B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Pensionhelp Limited pays 
Ms B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Ms B.
If Ms B accepts my final decision on the above basis, the money award will be binding on 
Pensionhelp Limited. My recommendation would not be binding on Pensionhelp Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Ms B could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Ms B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right 
Pensionhelp Limited should calculate and pay the redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman