DRN-1908134
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with a Level Term Assurance Policy she was sold by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Lloyds sold Miss P a Level Term Assurance Policy in 2002 which had an expiry date of 8 
December 2019.
Miss P says that she didn't realise there was an expiry date on the policy until she received a 
letter in July 2019 saying the policy would end in December that year.
Miss P thought the policy would continue until she died, so complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds didn't uphold the complaint saying they were confident the advisor gave suitable 
advice. They explained Miss P had been given all the relevant information showing the term 
and there was also a cancellation period if she thought the policy wasn't suitable.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought the policy wasn't mis-sold 
as Miss P had been given clear information about the term. Miss P disagreed saying she felt 
harassed to take out the policy with hard sell tactics. Our investigator considered this but still 
thought the term was clear in the paperwork that Miss P took away and signed at a later 
date. Miss P asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint saying she didn't know there 
was an expiry date, and if she had known, she would've cancelled the policy. So the 
complaint has come to for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons.
The Personal Summary and Recommendations says that Miss P was looking for protection 
so that her children wouldn't suffer financially if she was to pass away. She wanted to 
provide protection until her youngest child was 21 years of age. Her youngest child was 
around 4 years of age at the time, so the term of the policy was set for 17 years. Miss P 
signed this form saying the details were correct. Looking at the information from the time I'm 
satisfied the advice for a 17 year term was suitable for Miss P's needs.
Miss P took the information away after the initial sale to read and decide if the policy was 
suitable. Miss P signed and returned the documents a while later. So whilst Miss P says that 
Lloyds used hard sell tactics, I'm persuaded Lloyds gave her the opportunity to read the 
documents after the initial sale before signing and taking out the policy.
Looking at the documentation I'm satisfied Lloyds made the 17 year term clear in the 
recommendation and the application. Whilst I can't say what was said in the initial meeting, 
I'm satisfied the documentation is clear. Also, Miss P was given the opportunity to take the 
documentation away and read it at her leisure before agreeing to take out the policy. For these reasons, although I understand Miss P's frustration that the policy has ended, I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman