DRN-2403496
The complaint
A charity that Ill refer to as O have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) refused to pay the costs theyd incurred in appointing a 
representative after turning down their insurance claim. Mr J has brought the complaint to us 
on Os behalf. 
 
For ease of reading, reference to NFU will include the actions and comments of its agents. 
What happened
O hold a legal expenses policy with NFU. O became involved in a dispute with a building 
company, which the building company took to adjudication. O contacted NFU on                    
9 November 2018 to claim on their insurance policy.  
 
O said they agreed with NFU that O would appoint a company Ill refer to as R, to act on 
their behalf.  
 
NFU said it let O know that they could appoint their own legal representative, but would need 
more information from them, including a completed Claims Management Report 
(CMR), before the claim or any costs would be accepted, as it needed to establish whether 
O had a valid claim under the terms of the policy. 
 
O and R returned the required forms, but NFU said the CMR needed to have been 
completed by a law firm. Thats because a law firm was required to give a view on whether 
the dispute had reasonable prospects of success before the insurance claim could be 
accepted. As R was a loss adjuster and not a law firm, NFU said it would not cover the 
costs of the appointment.  
 
NFU got a legal opinion which said O didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in their 
dispute with the building firm. As a result, NFU turned down Os claim and said it wouldnt 
pay for any costs incurred in appointing or working with R.  
 
O said that, due to the quick turnaround of the adjudication, theyd needed to appoint a 
representative quickly. O said Rs work had enabled them to fight the adjudication and 
thought the costs should be covered by NFU. O said the terms of the policy didnt specify 
that a representative needed to be a solicitor. O also thought there was an inaccuracy in the 
legal opinion provided to NFU about Os prospects of success. 
NFU said it was correct to turn down the insurance claim as O didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success in their dispute. It also said that any costs incurred before the written 
acceptance of an insurance claim wouldnt be covered. For both reasons, NFU said it didnt 
think it needed to pay the costs O had incurred in appointing R. However, NFU said it would 
reconsider things if O provided their own legal opinion which showed that their dispute had a 
reasonable prospect of success.  
 
As O remained unhappy with NFUs decision they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Os complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
terms and conditions of the policy required a legal representative in order that prospects of 
success could be considered before a claim was accepted. So, he didnt think NFU needed 
to pay the costs O had incurred in appointing R because they werent a law firm.  
 
O disagreed with the investigators view. They felt theyd had no option but to appoint R due 
to the timescales involved and the delay caused by NFU. O asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Os policy provide cover for legal costs and expenses following 
an insured incident, including the costs of a representative. The policys definition of costs 
and expenses says that NFU needs to have agreed to the costs in accordance with its 
standard terms of appointment. The policy also says that NFU must have agreed that the 
claimant has reasonable prospects of success in their action before it pays any costs or 
expenses.   
 
Reasonable prospects of success 
 
NFU accepted that Os contractual dispute with the building firm was an insured incident but 
turned down the claim because O didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. It said this 
meant that any costs O had incurred in appointing R wouldnt be covered.  
 
Ive seen the legal opinion which says that Os action against the building firm didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success. As this opinion is from a legal professional, I think it was 
reasonable for NFU to rely on it when turning down Os claim. I understand O believed there 
was an inaccuracy in the opinion, but the legal opinion maintained that O didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success whichever way this point was considered. I appreciate R 
believed Os action would be successful but as R isnt a legal firm, I think it was reasonable 
for NFU to rely on its own legal opinion and decline the claim.  
 
As I think it was reasonable for NFU to turn down the claim, I dont think NFU needed to 
reimburse O for Rs costs.  
 
Agreed costs of representation 
 
O believes that R could be appointed as a representative under the terms of the policy and 
have referred to the definition of representative in the policy, which says  
 
The PREFERRED LAW FIRM, law firm, TAX CONSULTANCY, accountant or other suitably 
qualified person [NFUs agent] will appoint to act on the INSURED PERSONS behalf.  
 
While there may be circumstances when a representative isnt a law firm, in this particular 
case NFU needed a legal opinion on whether the claim had a reasonable prospect of 
success. The policy says that reasonable prospects of success will be assessed by either 
NFUs agent, its preferred law firm or a tax consultancy acting on its behalf. As R arent a 
law firm, I think it was reasonable for NFU to say it wouldnt cover the costs O had incurred 
in appointing R, as a legal opinion was needed instead.  
 
Ive considered Os point that they had to deal with things quickly and needed to appoint a 
firm to deal with the adjudication process. O appointed R on 10 November 2018 after first speaking to NFU on 9 November 2018. O said that by the time NFU asked for more details 
about R on 16 November 2018, they had already started work on the adjudication process.  
 
I can see that the adjudication timeline required a response within seven days, so I can 
understand why O needed to act quickly. However, the documents provided with Os policy 
make it clear that any costs need to be agreed by NFU in writing and I dont think NFU took 
an unreasonable amount of time to process the claim. It let O know by 16 November 2018 
that their representative needed to be a law firm.  
 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to O, but I dont think I can fairly 
require NFU to cover the costs they incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman