DRN-2593521
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Standard Life Assurance Limited. He is unhappy about the way 
its managed his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr C has a SIPP with Standard Life. He has made four specific complaints. He says:
Standard Life failed to communicate in a clear way in relation to his life time 
allowance (LTA) between October 2016 and February 2017.
There were unacceptable delays in cooperating with a claim for an LTA tax refund 
from HMRC.
Standard Life failed to understand and correctly calculate the allowable tax-free 
drawings from his pension.
Standard Life raised a complaint on his behalf in March 2020 without any 
consultation, and before he could make his formal complaint in April 2020.
Standard Life had upheld the complaint in part, accepting that it had miscalculated the tax-
free drawings. It had apologised and offered £500 for any distress caused. It didnt uphold 
other aspects of the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. An investigator considered the 
complaint, but he didnt think that it should be upheld. He thought the offer was fair. 
In summary, the investigator said;
As the pension provider, Standard Life was required to carry out a Benefit 
Crystallization Event (BCE) test when Mr C was 75 years of age. This was to 
determine how much of the LTA had been used and what, if any, tax was likely to be 
payable. Standard Life was also required to issue a BCE statement within 12 weeks 
of Mr C reaching 75. 
Standard Life had emailed Mr Cs financial adviser on 26 October 2016 explaining 
the potential tax implications of the BCE. It wasnt responsible for any delay by the 
adviser or for the answers the adviser gave.
Standard Life had also issued correspondence about the BCE test and the LTA 25 
weeks, and ten weeks before as it was expected to do. These letters had been 
copied to Mr C.
The investigator was satisfied that there had been clear communication by Standard 
Life.
In November 2019 Standard Life were informed that Mr C had been granted 
retrospective enhanced protection. This meant he could apply for a refund on the tax 
paid in 2016, plus interest. The investigator said that obtaining this type of refund 
from HMRC wasnt a quick or simple process. And so, taking the time to understand 
how the refund would be applied to the account was reasonable given the complexity 
of the transaction. Once it was confirmed the refund would need to be issued to 
Standard Life because it had originally raised the charge, Mr Cs account was 
brought up to date. This was despite the fact HMRC hadnt paid the refund of tax that 
was owed.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Standard Life had failed to cooperate or that the 
time taken to achieve the refund was unreasonable.
In January 2020 Mr C was incorrectly advised he could take £50,000 tax-free from 
his SIPP when this shouldve been restricted to £14,390. The investigator noted that 
Standard Life had already tried to put things right and acknowledged a mistake was 
made. A plan had been put in place to allow Mr C to keep the funds. Although Mr C 
had planned on having £50,000 tax-free cash, had the mistake not been made it 
wouldnt change the fact tax was payable on the additional funds when drawn. 
Standard Life had offered £500 by way of apology and to acknowledge the stress 
caused. 
The investigator thought the offer was reasonable.
On the issue of the complaint itself, the investigator explained that where an 
expression of dissatisfaction is raised Standard Life were required by the regulator, to 
record the complaint and deal with it in line with the regulators requirements. 
Standard Life acted in this way on receipt of a message from Mr Cs adviser.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in summary:
He didnt receive the letters sent at 25 weeks or 10 weeks before the BCE.
On the refund, he said that Standard Life had been slow and unhelpful. It took too 
long, and this wasnt good enough.
On the tax-free allowance, Mr C said the investigator was wrong. Standard Life had 
said that a much higher amount was available tax-free, £192,000. He had based his 
decision on that. All his financial planning for that year was thrown into confusion and 
he was faced with a cash shortfall because of the tax payable. This caused expense, 
worry, and stress.
Mr C accepted the investigators view in relation to the expression of dissatisfaction 
being treated as a complaint.
The investigator didnt change his view. He said:
Standard Life said that it had written to Mr C and there was a copy of its letter from 
September 2016 (the 10-week letter) which was correctly addressed. It had also 
written to the adviser. There was no reason to believe a correctly address letter 
wouldnt have reached Mr C.
Although Mr C wasnt copied in on the email dated 26 October 2016, his adviser 
wouldve been authorized to discuss the pension. Standard Life isnt responsible for 
the actions or inactions of the adviser. It had communicated as it was expected to.
On the delays experienced when looking to obtain the tax refund, the time it took 
Standard Life to resolve and respond to the queries wasnt unreasonable. It isnt 
unusual for refunds like this to take months rather than weeks to resolve. Standard 
Life also brought the account up to date before HMRC had issued the refund. 
Standard Life had made an error about the tax-free allowance, but it had already taken steps to put right what had happened. As the funds drawn cant be repaid, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Standard Life to put a plan in place which allowed Mr C to 
keep the money. This does mean there is additional tax, but tax wouldve been 
payable on whenever Mr C did choose to draw them.
There was a loss of expectation in terms of what Mr C believed he was able to draw 
tax-free. The mistake caused stress and worry, but Standard Life has apologized and 
offered £500.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator in relation to the delays in dealing with the tax refund 
and the calculation of the tax-free allowance.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has resolved two aspects of the complaint with Mr C. I wont directly 
address those two aspects here save to say that I agree with the investigators conclusions 
on them as Ive set out above.
Ill consider the outstanding issues here.
Was there delay or lack of cooperation by Standard Life in the claim for an LTA tax refund 
from HMRC?
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint. Mr C successfully 
appealed to HMRC and was allowed an increased LTA (Enhanced Protection). The 
success of the appeal was confirmed in November 2019. There was then dialogue between 
Mr Cs new adviser and Standard Life about how the tax refund would be achieved. 
Standard Life said from the outset that this was not a routine situation. Mr C must have 
understood that as he engaged a tax adviser as well as his financial adviser to deal with the 
issues. There was ongoing correspondence between HMRC, the financial adviser, the tax 
adviser and Standard Life through December and January. Standard Life was told what 
steps it needed to take and seems to have made the necessary application on 8 February 
2020. HMRC applied the refund which was made in May 2020. 
Im satisfied that it was clear from an early stage that this was an unusual situation. Mr C 
was involved in a claim against his former adviser, and the underlying problem which had led 
to the refund being necessary was not caused by Standard Life. Mr C was told by his new 
adviser in November 2019 that this was only the second time Standard Life had faced this 
problem and that it was making them think and would take a bit longer than usual. 
Given the unusual nature of the transaction, I dont think there was any unreasonable delay 
by Standard Life in applying for the refund. But in any event, Standard Life applied the 
refund to Mr Cs SIPP on 13 February 2020 even though it wasnt received from HMRC until 
three month later. This meant that Mr Cs SIPP was reconciled with the refund just three 
months after the appeal succeeded, I dont think there could have been any expectation that 
this would happen sooner. It did actually take HMRC three months to process the refund 
once the correct process had been agreed by all involved. So even if there was any delay by 
Standard Life, and I dont believe there was, this didnt have any impact on Mr C or on his 
SIPP funds.Standard Life failed to understand and correctly calculate the allowable tax-free drawings 
from the pension.
Standard Life upheld this aspect of the complaint. It accepted that it had made an error in its 
understanding of what tax-free payments remained after the change in Mr Cs LTA status to 
enhanced protection. It acknowledged its error and agreed a method which allowed him to 
retain the payment subject to most of it being taxable. 
Its clear that Standard Life made an error in its calculation of the available tax-free cash. It 
wrote to Mr Cs new adviser on 28 January 2020 setting out its new calculations after 
enhanced protection had been granted. This protection meant that the tax-free allowances 
needed to be recalculated. Standard Life suggested then that there had been an 
overpayment of around £160,000 and an option was for Mr C to repay this sum. I agree with 
Mr C that this would have caused him a great deal of shock. However, on the same day, Mr 
Cs new adviser responded and corrected Standard Lifes misunderstanding. On 4 February 
2020 Standard Life acknowledged and accepted that correction. It confirmed that the 
overpayment was £35,000 and not £160,000. Steps were then agreed to address this.
There is no doubt that Standard Life got things wrong and it accepts that. But the error didnt 
cause any loss, as Mr C would have faced a tax liability if he had drawn the funds later. 
However, I do appreciate that the error would have caused Mr C distress, but any immediate 
shock should have been relatively short-lived as his adviser was able to identify the error 
and have it corrected swiftly. I can accept that the error may have had some impact on Mr 
Cs confidence in Standard Life and on his tax planning, but I think that must also be 
considered along with the fact that his protection status had changed in November 2019 
which would have had some retrospective effect and impact.
Overall, I think Standard Lifes offer of £500 is fair. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I think the offer Standard Life made of £500 was fair. I 
understand this sum has already been paid to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman