DRN-2790447
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with Premium Plan Limited.
What happened
Mrs H took out a hire purchase agreement with Premium Plan for a car in April 2018. There
were a number of repairs completed to the vehicle during 2018 and 2019. Mrs H complained
to Premium Plan about the quality of the vehicle in May 2019 after the anti-pollution warning
light came on.
Below is a summary of the faults and work completed, compiled from job sheets and
invoices supplied by Mrs H.
15 May 2018  Refit door aperture seal and A pillar trim, replace door strap and test the air
conditioning system.
20 May 2019  Replace and fit radio.
31 May 2018  Replace leaking condenser, recharge and add deodoriser to air conditioning
system.
18 December 2018  Replace headlight bulb, steering track rod and tyre, and clear fault
code memory.
05 April 2019  Replace fly wheel, clutch and rebuild with new gearbox trumpet housing and
clutch fork. Remove and replace seized bolts from subframe.
May 2019  Anti-Pollution warning light came on and the car cut out.
Premium Plan asked Mrs H for an inspection report, which she provided in September 2019.
This report highlighted a number of faults the engineer thought would have been occurring
since purchase, and specifically noted that the clutch failure was as a result of premature
wear due to the vehicle having a tow bar fitted.
Premium Plan arranged for their own inspection in October 2019. They sent Mrs H their
response to her complaint to say that the required repairs were as a result of fair wear and
tear so they wouldnt be taking any further action.
Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into
things for Mrs H. They thought that most of the repairs were as a result of normal wear and
tear, but that Mrs Hs engineer had noted that the clutch had failed due to excessive wear
from the use of a tow bar prior to Mrs Hs ownership.
Our investigator was persuaded that the clutch wasnt reasonably durable as a result, and so
it made the car not of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mrs H. They
recommended that Premium Plan reimburse Mrs H for the cost of repairs to the clutch, for
her monthly payments while the car was unable to be used during the repairs to the clutch,
for the breakdown costs associated with the clutch failure and for the diagnostic report fee
that Mrs H paid.
Premium Plan didnt agree, they provided evidence from their engineer which suggests a
tow bar wouldnt have any more of an effect on the clutch than normal driving. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021 recommending that it was not 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can
consider a complaint relating to it. Premium Plan as the supplier of the goods under this type
of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale.
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £5,000. It was seven years old
and had travelled approximately 90,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires
a used car like Mrs Hs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than
that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower,
and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a
serious issue sooner, is higher.
During 2018 Mrs H arranged for a number of minor repairs to be completed to the vehicle.
None of these repairs rendered the car undriveable, and Im satisfied, given the age and
mileage of the vehicle, that these can all be attributed to fair wear and tear. So, I find these
earlier repairs dont render the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mrs
H.
At the time of the clutch failure in early 2019, the car had travelled approximately 97,000
miles. Mrs Hs engineer has noted that the vehicle had a tow bar fitted, and that the clutch
has suffered excessive wear as a result.
Premium Plans engineer noted that a tow bar wouldnt add to the wear of a clutch unless
oversized loads were being towed. They also noted that the clutch has an expected lifespan
of up to 40,000 miles.
Ive thought about the evidence provided by both parties, and Im not persuaded that the tow
bar itself means the clutch has been subject to unusual wear.
The clutch is not expected to last the life of the vehicle, so it is expected that it will need to
be replaced.
Mrs H didnt fit the tow bar to the vehicle, it was in place when it was supplied to her. Mrs H
hasnt used the tow bar whilst shes been in possession of the vehicle. So, whilst it may be
possible that towing a vehicle could cause unusual wear to the clutch, I havent seen any
evidence that this is the case here. Its also possible that the clutch has already been
replaced on the vehicle and the tow bar hasnt been used for some time.
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that the clutch failure experienced by Mrs H
in early 2019 is linked to the existence of the tow bar on the vehicle.Given the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time that it was supplied, and the use that
Mrs H has had of it since owning it, it seems more likely that the fault is due to fair wear and
tear rather than an inherent defect with the vehicle.
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Mrs Hs car was of
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision to say she didnt have anything further to add.
Premium Plan responded to my provisional decision to say they had no further information to 
provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman