DRN-2392322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd avoided their mortgage cover plan and 
declined their critical illness insurance claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
On 5 December 2012 Mr and Mrs T applied for a decreasing mortgage cover plan with 
Zurich. It had an initial sum assured of £180,000 and provided cover in event of death or if 
they suffered from a specified critical illness. Cover commenced on 1 January 2013 with a 
term of 24 years. 
In 2019 Mrs T was unfortunately diagnosed with breast cancer and so she made a claim 
under the plan. Zurich declined the claim as they considered Mrs T had mis-represented her 
smoking status at the time of applying. They said, had they known otherwise, they wouldve 
offered cover on different terms. But, as they considered this misrepresentation to be 
deliberate, Zurich cancelled the plan and arranged for the premiums to be refunded. 
A complaint was raised but Zurichs position didnt change. They remained of the view that 
not all relevant information was disclosed to them when the plan was applied for, and that 
the claim had been correctly handled in line with their procedures.
The plan premiums, after a cheque payment issue, have been refunded. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Zurich had acted 
fairly as he felt there wasnt enough evidence to demonstrate Mrs T had misrepresented her 
smoking history when the plan was applied for. And so, he thought Zurich should reconsider 
the claim in line with the remaining plan terms. He also recommended £250 compensation 
be paid to Mr and Mrs T for the trouble and upset caused as a result of this.  
Zurich disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive got to consider here is whether Zurich has acted fairly and in line with the relevant 
legislation and industry guidance applicable at the time the plan was sold - in this case, the 
ABI code of Practice on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly. Having done so, Ive 
come to same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mrs T had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying for 
the plan. And, as part of the application process, she was asked:
Have you smoked any cigarettes, cigars or pipe tobacco or used any nicotine or 
replacement products in the last twelve months?
Mrs T answered No to this question. She says that while she has smoked over the years on 
a very occasional basis, she hadnt smoked in the 12-month period prior to applying for 
cover. And that at the time of a doctors appointment she attended on 13 December 2011, in 
which a smoking number of 1 was recorded, they were planning for their first child. So, she 
wasnt smoking for this reason and she then became pregnant by July 2012. Mrs T says the 
doctor is required to enter a number to record smoking even for very occasional use in the 
past and so this record doesnt evidence she smoked in the two weeks prior to the 
appointment (or the 12-month period in question).
Zurich however argues that Mrs T ought to have answered this question yes. Theyve 
explained that there is no safe level of smoking and that their question seeks to identify 
those who smoke against those who do not. And, in Mrs Ts case, there are multiple GP 
records of smoking cessation advice being provided to her along with a read code inside 
the 12-month period showing her as a smoker. So, while they accept her habit appears to 
have been occasional or social in nature, it was Zurichs right to have been informed of 
Mrs Ts smoking status to allow them to make the necessary underwriting assessment. 
The effects of smoking arent in question here as its widely accepted that it is detrimental to 
a persons health. Its therefore common for insurers to ask applicants about their smoking 
status for underwriting purposes. This is because those who smoke are likely to pose a 
greater risk to insurers. And I think Zurich asked Mrs T a clear question as it gave a specific 
timeframe  12 months - for which she had to disclose whether she had smoked or used any 
nicotine or replacement products. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mrs T has smoked. This is supported by her medical 
records from 2004 onwards. That said, Mrs T says that at the time of applying she hadnt 
smoked for the 12-month period in question. Zurich however think Mrs T ought to have 
disclosed she had smoked during that 12-month period given shed declared to her GP that 
she was a smoker on 13 December 2011, prompting smoking cessation advice recorded as 
being provided. 
When considering the 13 December 2011 record, Ive also taken into account what Mrs Ts 
GP  Dr M  has said about this:
She maintains that she has never smoked cigarettes but has had the occasional one 
when at parties. This declaration would trigger a code smoker in our notes as it is 
not possible on GP computer systems to apply occasional smoker. Therefore when 
smoker is written in the notes, or coded more accurately, a qualifying number has to 
be written and this has been indicated in her notes on a number of occasions as 
being 1) indicating no regular smoking.

You will see that in the entry for 24th March 2005 the GP at that time, [Dr S], noted 
both that she was a smoker and that she had never smoked, indicating only very 
occasional use. 
There is no code for occasional and we have to put in a number in relation to 
smoking habit. This has been coded in her notes as the number 1 and on the odd 
occasion 2, denoting that she not habitually smoke. I reiterate this point by again 
pointing out the entry dated 24 March 2005 denoting both cigarette smoker 1/day and 
never smoked. 
Based on Dr Ms explanation of how smoking is recorded, along with what Mrs T has told us 
about her smoking history, I think its reasonable to conclude that she wasnt smoking 
regularly when she visited the GP on 13 December 2011. But rather, her smoking habit was 
occasional in nature. Im therefore not persuaded that this medical record sufficiently 
evidences that Mrs T had smoked after 5 December 2011  that being the start of the 12-
month period relevant for the application question. 
Ive also not seen anything to evidence Mrs T smoked between this medical appointment 
and applying for cover on 5 December 2012. I also find Mrs Ts testimony persuasive in that 
shes explained that she wasnt smoking at this time as she was planning for her first child 
with Mr T. This is supported by her becoming pregnant in July 2012  about seven months 
after the GP meeting and five months before applying for cover.  
I understand why smoking is an important consideration for Zurich and that they consider 
Mrs Ts medical records show that she is a smoker. But, while her records may show a 
pattern of occasional smoking behaviour over the years, I dont think it evidences smoking 
during the 12-month period that is relevant here. And so, any records of smoking or 
cessation advice being provided to Mrs T outside of this 12-month period are irrelevant when 
determining whether a misrepresentation has occurred.
It follows that, in the absence of anything to show otherwise, Im not persuaded Mrs T 
smoked (or used any nicotine or replacement products) between 5 December 2011 and 5 
December 2012. So, I dont think Mrs T made a misrepresentation when answering no to 
Zurichs question. I therefore dont think Zurich acted fairly, or in line with the ABI code of 
Practice on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly, by avoiding Mr and Mrs Ts plan 
and declining their claim. 
Im aware that Zurich has since raised concerns that Mrs T also failed to disclose in the 
application that shed suffered from breast lumps. Zurich considers this relevant as they 
believe it shows Mrs T didnt provide honest and accurate responses when answering 
specific questions. I havent considered this potential non-disclosure(s) as part of this 
decision. But, while Ive noted what Zurich have said in respect of how Mrs T answered the 
questions, this doesnt change my view that Mrs T didnt make a misrepresentation when 
answering Zurichs question about her smoking status/history. 
To put things right, Zurich should reinstate Mr and Mrs Ts plan and reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining terms. If the claim is subsequently paid then Zurich can deduct the 
premiums that have been refunded to Mr and Mrs T from the settlement amount. Id also 
encourage Zurich, should the claim be paid, to consider whether Mr and Mrs T have suffered 
from a loss of use of the money during this time  and so whether it would be fair to add 
interest in recognition of this. 
Furthermore, Ive also considered the £250 compensation recommended by our investigator. 
Having done so, I think whats happened will have likely caused Mr and Mrs T a great deal of 
worry given the financial implications of the plan being avoided and the claim declined. I 
think £250 compensation is fair amount to recognise this.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to:
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ts plan and reconsider their claim in line with the remaining 
terms.
pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman