DRN-3374594
The complaint
Mr S complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly 
increased the limit on his credit card when he couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Mr S was provided with a credit card by 118 118 Money in September 2019, with an initial 
credit limit of £250. The credit limit was increased, at his request, to £1,000 in October 2020. 
The card had no interest or charges added, instead he had to pay a monthly subscription of 
£3. Mr S had advised us that he got into difficulties over the repayments. He complained to 
118 118 Money that it had irresponsibly increased the limit on the card putting him into 
difficulties.
118 118 Money said that it was satisfied that it had carried out the necessary affordability 
checks and acted correctly when issuing the credit card and approving the increase in credit 
limit.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator said overall, based on the 
way Mr Ss credit card account was being run, together with his circumstances and the 
information 118 118 Money obtained about his external debt, he didnt think 118 118 Money 
were given reason to believe he wouldnt be able to manage the £1,000 credit limit it 
provided to him. He further pointed out that since no interest or charges were added Mr S 
wouldnt benefit if a finding of irresponsible lending was made.
Mr S disagreed and said that nevertheless he wanted an ombudsmans decision. So the 
matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing [Cs] 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
card issue
Mr S hasnt complained about this though for the sake of completeness I will deal with it. The 
card was issued in September 2019, with an initial credit limit of £250. With such a low limit I 
think proportionate checks that considered Mr Ss application and reviewed his credit record 
were appropriate. 118 118 Moneys credit search revealed he had non-mortgage debts 
totalling £18,771. It showed his worst payment status in the last 36 months was two months 
of arrears. He had no CCJs. 118 118 Moneys affordability assessment calculated, using 
Mr Ss figures and those from its credit search, that he would have had a monthly disposable 
income of over £400. Bearing in mind no interest was charged and Mr S had only to pay a 
monthly subscription of £3, I think 118 118 Money acted appropriately in issuing the card.
increase in credit limit
This was in October 2020, at Mr Ss request. It appears that 118 118 Money did an up to 
date credit search. Mr Ss credit commitments had increased to around £23,000. I 
understand that he was near his limit on the card, but bearing in mind the minimal amount of 
credit I dont think this was a concern. I havent seen an updated calculation of Mr Ss 
disposable income. But even with his increased credit commitments I think he still had 
enough disposable income to cover any payments even if he borrowed the entire £750 at 
once.
I acknowledge that Mr S was spending a fair amount of his income on his credit 
commitments. However I do have to take account of the fact that the credit being given was 
a small amount, that no interest or other fees were charged on it (even if he missed 
payments or went over limit) and that his monthly subscription remained the same, at £3.
So I think that 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision. And, as our investigator pointed 
out, even if I were to make a finding Mr S wouldnt get any benefit. The appropriate remedy 
would be to remove interest and other charges over the initial credit limit, and no such 
charges have been levied. And the monthly subscription remained the same so he would 
have continued to be liable for it even if the limit hadnt increased. Mr S suggested that 118 
118 Money waive any balance over £250, but even if I had made a finding that wouldnt be 
the appropriate remedy where he applied for and received the benefit of the credit.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman