DRN-2687548
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to repair his boiler for over 14 
months under his home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr B had a HomeCare home emergency policy with British Gas. In November 2019, British 
Gas cancelled a scheduled boiler service. A month later the boiler developed a fault which 
left Mr and Mrs B without heating or hot water for several days. Mr B believes this wouldnt 
have happened if the boiler had been serviced as scheduled.
British Gas thought it had fixed the problem in December 2019. However, in March 2020 the 
central heating system developed a pressure fault. Mr B had problems over the next five 
months trying to get British Gas to repair it. He says, in summary, that British Gas:
Failed to repair the boiler despite multiple visits between March and August 2020.
Cancelled and rescheduled several more appointments during that time.
Sent engineers who didnt have the expertise to fix the problem.
Pressured him to buy a new boiler.
British Gas agreed that it failed to provide a good service to Mr B. It said in its final response 
to Mr Bs complaint: It simply was not good enough. Engineer visits, lack of promised 
engineer visits, telephone conversations and handling of your complaint all havent been up 
to standard and caused further stress at a difficult time for you and your family. It offered 
him £392 to apologise for this.
Mr B didnt think that was enough and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He agreed that 
British Gas had missed and postponed appointments, failed to repair the boiler for five 
months, and generally provided a poor service to Mr B. However, he noted that the boiler 
was 23 years old and that British Gas had recommended Mr B replace it. He thought it 
wasnt unusual for heating systems that old to fail and understood why it might have been 
difficult for British Gas to find replacement parts. Overall, he was satisfied that British Gas 
compensation offer of £392 was reasonable.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Page 10 of Mr Bs home emergency policy sets out whats covered. This includes: 
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
Its less than seven years old 
Or, its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been 
continuously covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare 
agreement.
Mr Bs boiler was 23 years old so couldnt be replaced under the policy. I understand that 
British Gas first recommended that Mr B replace the boiler in 2012. I appreciate Mr B 
believes its still fit for purpose and that he was being pressurised to replace the boiler. 
However, I think British Gas explanation is reasonable  that it had a duty to recommend a 
replacement if the boiler was old and/or inefficient.
Its clear that British Gas service to Mr B  from both its engineers and its customer service 
staff  was poor and Im glad to see it accepts this. However, given the boilers age and that 
this model was no longer manufactured, I dont think its a great surprise that it developed 
faults or that it was difficult for British Gas to easily source replacement parts. Im also 
conscious that it might have been difficult to obtain parts from suppliers or send engineers 
out while the UK was in lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.
British Gas doesnt dispute that it failed to provide Mr B with a good service between 
November 2019 and October 2020. So the main issue for me is to decide whether the 
compensation it has offered is fair. In March 2020, it offered Mr B £50 to apologise for the 
problems he had in November and December 2019. Its final offer in September 2020 
increased this to £392 to reflect the more serious problems from March 2020 onwards.
Mr B believes British Gas broke its contract with him so should refund his 2019/20 premium 
as well as pay compensation. I dont think thats reasonable. While its service was poor, it 
did eventually repair the boiler. So I dont agree with Mr B that British Gas breached its 
contract with him. 
Having said that, its offer is equivalent to a full refund of Mr Bs 2019/20 premium plus £100. 
I know this isnt how British Gas calculated it but, in the circumstances, I think this is fair. I 
dont think British Gas needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman