DRN-2832414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way TSB Bank plc handled a chargeback claim they 
sought to make when they couldnt go on holiday during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs S has 
expressed particular concern that the bank didnt make reasonable adjustments to its 
process in response to her disability.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a joint current account. Mrs S used her debit card to pay for a villa holiday 
overseas, which she booked through a third party A. Unfortunately, shortly after Mrs S made 
her payment, the UK and other governments brought in travel and other restrictions due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant Mr and Mrs S werent able to travel. They contacted A to 
see if it would refund their payment. A wasnt willing to do so. Instead, it offered them the 
option to rebook for a later date.
Mrs S was reluctant to make another booking and asked TSB if it could assist in recovering 
her money. The bank discussed the possibility of raising a chargeback against A and 
completed a dispute form with her by phone. However, TSB said it would need further 
documents from Mrs S to support the claim. Mrs S wasnt able to provide these and the bank 
didnt progress the claim. Mrs S went on to rebook, albeit at a different villa and at additional 
cost.
Mrs S says her disabilities  of which TSB holds a record  mean she has difficulty using the 
communication methods TSB usually offers for this purpose. And because she was shielding 
due to the pandemic, she felt it wouldnt be appropriate to take the documents to a branch. 
She feels the bank didnt do enough to assist her by making adjustments to its usual process 
for dealing with chargeback in light of her disability.
TSB says that it required the additional documents (including the booking terms and 
conditions) to assess and progress the chargeback claim. The bank acknowledges Mrs Ss 
personal communication needs but says it offered her several alternative ways of providing 
the information. While it disputes that if failed to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly, it has paid her £52 
compensation for her upset and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought TSBs position was fair in the circumstances. He was satisfied the 
bank had acted reasonably in seeking the information to progress the chargeback claim, 
having taken as much detail as it could over the telephone. It had given her different options 
to submit the evidence it needed, including by post  a method shed dais she could use.
The investigator didnt think the fact the claim wasnt progressed caused loss to Mr and 
Mrs S. He considered A would have been able to defend it on the basis of relevant 
government legislation allowing the option of rebooking or a voucher, consistent with Covid-
19 guidance issued by the card scheme.
Overall, he wasnt persuaded TSB had treated Mrs S unfairly, and so he didnt think it 
needed to offer her further compensation. Mrs S hasnt accepted the investigators 
conclusion and so the matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSBs internal records show Mrs S had previously told it about her disability and personal 
communication needs. I can see the bank understood this; from what I can see it took most 
of the key information about the dispute over the telephone. One of the key aspects of Mr 
and Mrs Ss dispute with A, though, was around the terms under which they might be entitled 
to a refund of their payment.
I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask Mr and Mrs S for their booking terms in considering 
whether to progress the claim. And Im satisfied the bank offered Mrs S a number of different 
ways of getting the information to it. Some of those methods caused Mrs S concern  
particularly as she was shielding from the pandemic at the time. But I consider they are 
indicative that the bank attempted to make reasonable adjustments in light of Mrs Ss 
disability, balanced against the evidence it felt was necessary to move forward with her 
claim.
I know Mrs S feels TSB ought to have gone much further, and obtained this information 
directly from A. I dont doubt that had TSB taken this action, it would have meant she didnt 
need to. But I dont think thats quite what is intended by the obligation on a service provider 
to make reasonable adjustments to its processes to avoid placing someone with a disability 
at a disadvantage compared to other customers. In my view, what the bank did was 
appropriate to ensure Mr and Mrs S had a fair opportunity to pursue the claim.
I must also take into account that the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss booking were such that, when 
read in conjunction with the card scheme guidance and government legislation, the claim 
was unlikely to have resulted in them getting a refund through chargeback. A offered them 
the option to rebook, which was a provision under the legislation in place at the time to deal 
with the pandemic situation in the country they intended travelling to. And Mr and Mrs S 
have taken up that option. That might have been at additional cost, but it doesnt strike me 
as being attributable to the banks actions in deciding not to proceed with the chargeback.
It's clear Mrs S is particularly unhappy about the way TSB dealt with her. I dont doubt shes 
found things frustrating and upsetting. For the reasons Ive set out Im not going to require 
TSB to pay more than the £52 compensation its already credited to the joint account. I hope 
my review, and the previous explanations and apologies shes received, are helpful to her in 
understanding why.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman