DRN-2022203
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H originally took out the mortgage with his then partner in 1997. He also took out PPI at 
that time. In 2000 the mortgage was transferred into Mr Hs sole name, the original PPI 
policy was cancelled and Mr H was sold a new PPI policy.
To be clear, this decision only relates to the PPI policy that was sold in 2000 that protected 
the mortgage Mr H had in his sole name. It does not relate to the 1997 sale. Neither does it 
relate to the sale of a life and critical illness policy that Mr H bought in 2006 which is the 
subject of a separate complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told he had to take out the PPI. He says the meeting with BoS in 2000 
was about transferring the mortgage into his sole name and there were lots of forms to fill in, 
which he found confusing as he is not good with forms.
From what we know of BoSs sales process at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different happened in 
this case. Ive seen the PPI application form that Mr H signed. The form has the relevant 
information printed on it which is typical of branch meetings. It is likely that there would have 
been some discussion about PPI and the form was printed off for Mr H to sign after he 
expressed interest in having it. Mr H says the form doesnt say anywhere that the PPI is 
optional. Ive thought about this but, on balance, I consider that Mr H would have known from 
the wider sales process that the policy was optional.
I have no doubt that Mr H has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs memory has faded. Indeed, he has 
said himself that he only has a vague recollection of what happened. Overall, based on the 
available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mr H decided to buy the PPI, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mr H to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, the 
policy was suitable for him.
Mr Hs employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. Mr H had £8,000 in savings, split between 
a savings account and a current account. However, having the policy would have allowed 
him to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time. Overall, I consider that Mr H had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
BoS also needed to provide Mr H with enough information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H says that the policy only provided a benefit of 12 months of mortgage repayments per 
claim, whereas BoS is saying that it provided 24 months benefit. Mr H has provided a policy 
booklet which shows 12 months of cover. This service has a library of BoSs policy 
documents for different dates so Ive been able to check the applicable terms and condition 
for the sale date. It looks to me that the policy booklet provided by Mr H relates to the 1997 
sale when Mr H originally took out the mortgage. By 2000 the policy terms had changed and 
the benefit term had been increased. Im satisfied that the policy in question had a benefit 
term of 24 months.
Mr H says he wasnt told that the policy didnt run for the same length of time as the 
mortgage. It seems that there has been some confusion stemming from an Annual Review 
letter sent in March 2019. Mr H says this states there is one year remaining on the policy 
whereas there were three years remaining on the mortgage at that time. This letter actually 
says that the remaining term of the loan agreement is one year. There is no reference to the 
end date of the policy.
I think that Mr H would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to buy the PPI without knowing anything at all about 
it.  And, as our adjudicator mentioned, the costs were made clear, so I think Mr H would 
have known what hed be paying for the policy.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But BoS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr H has already accepted the commission offer and says this had some bearing on the way 
the adjudicator looked at the mis-sale complaint, despite assurances that it wouldnt. I can assure Mr H again that his acceptance of the commission offer has had no influence on the 
way that Ive considered this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As it has already done this, I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman