DRN-3327711
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM).
What happened
In 2018, Mr A transferred his investment holdings to HLAM from another provider. There was 
initially a problem with HLAM getting the original cost prices but it received this information in 
April 2019. Mr As complaint relates specifically to issues he encountered with his holdings in 
the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) which was suspended in June 2019. 
Mr As complaint points can be summarised as follows:
- There was an intermittent reporting issue which led to Mr As holdings in the WEIF 
being rounded down when he viewed them on HLAMs platform
- HLAM wasnt helpful when Mr A was trying to work out the impact of the WEIF 
winding up payments on his Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability
- HLAMs correspondence about the issues wasnt reasonable. Mr A said it was slow 
to respond, showed a lack of empathy and skill and it gave poor customer service
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He went into 
detail about the correspondence dates between Mr A and HLAM which I wont repeat here. 
The Investigator concluded that Mr A had accepted compensation of £100 in full and final 
settlement of the reporting issue so didnt think it was appropriate for this service to consider 
that aspect of the complaint. He felt is should be dismissed under DISP. The Investigator felt 
HLAM had given sufficient information to Mr A to be able to get help from a tax professional 
in relation to his CGT liability. And he felt HLAM had given a reasonable level of customer 
service.
Mr A disagreed with our Investigators view. He said the following:
- There shouldnt be any discrepancies with his unit holdings and any errors should be 
resolved quickly but this wasnt the case with his unit holdings in the WEIF being 
rounded down.
- HLAM ought to know how CGT works and should be able to explain it to clients when 
they ask for help. In this case, Mr A said it shouldve provided the information he 
required to work out his losses. Mr A says it has now given him a worked example 
and it shouldve done this sooner.
- HLAM didnt commit to a resolution for the rounding down issue and only reached 
one after a lot of communication from Mr A. He felt this was because it didnt care as 
Mr A had moved his other holdings away.
I sent out my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 February 2022. In this decision I 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Both parties received the decision. 
Mr A disagreed but didnt add any additional comments or evidence. HLAM said it had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons below, which are the same 
as set out in my provisional decision.
Mr As holdings in the WEIF
I can imagine that it was frustrating for Mr A to log into his account and see that his unit 
holdings were different to what they shouldve been. But I think HLAM acted reasonably in 
trying to resolve this issue. I can see that when Mr A first reported the issue, his holdings 
had gone back to where they shouldve been  so it was difficult for HLAM to see what had 
happened. And HLAM asked its IT department to look at the issue. It was clear that the issue 
was intermittent and difficult to replicate, so I dont think it was unreasonable that it took 
some time to work out what had happened. I also think all parties understood it was an error, 
and that Mr As actual holdings in the WEIF hadnt changed.
I can see that before HLAM had concluded what the issue was it offered Mr A £50 
compensation. It was Mr A who asked for £100 and this was accepted by HLAM. I dont think 
it was clear that this would be in full and final settlement to the exclusion of being able to 
complain to this service about it. And I can see the issue happened again and wasnt 
resolved until some time later, so Ive considered whether the compensation that Mr A has 
been paid is fair. I think that it is.
Its unfortunate that the issue happened on a few occasions, but as it was difficult to replicate 
it isnt surprising that it took some time to work out why it was happening. HLAM has now 
explained that it only happens when it does a manual process to ensure Mr A isnt charged 
for holding his WEIF units through its platform. Im pleased to see that Mr A now knows the 
reason for the issue. Im mindful that Mr A knew it was an error, and so did HLAM. So, his 
holdings never actually decreased and HLAM reassured Mr A of this. The WEIF was 
suspended so Mr A wasnt missing out due to this error as he wasnt able to do anything with 
his holdings in it. So, I think the actual impact was minimal and I think £100 is fair 
compensation for this issue overall. 
It appears that Mr A, throughout this complaint, believes he should be paid higher 
compensation, and has told both this service and HLAM that higher compensation would 
make him go away. But I think the compensation hes been paid is fair and reasonable for 
the trouble and upset he experienced due to this intermittent error.
Information about Mr As CGT liability
I can see that Mr A was keen to work out what his losses would be from a CGT perspective. 
And he asked HLAM for calculations or a ready reckoner to enable him to do this. HLAM 
explained that it couldnt give tax advice as it could lead to misinformation. It gave Mr A the 
information on what his units had sold for as part of the winding up process, and I can see it 
did this in good time.
Mr A continued to ask for more information, and even gave HLAM a method to work out his 
CGT losses. HLAM continued to suggest that Mr A speak to an accountant or tax advisor. I 
think this was reasonable to do. I wouldnt expect HLAM to give Mr A any advice it wasnt 
qualified to give. And I think Mr A understood this.I do appreciate that it wouldve been easier for Mr A to have the information he wanted from 
HLAM, but I think HLAM was consistent in explaining why it couldnt do this. This included it 
not having the specific information available, as well as not being qualified to go beyond the 
information and provide calculations. I can see that HLAM sent Mr A the notifications of the 
units sold in January, March and August 2020. These notifications included how many units 
were sold and the price achieved. I understand the cost prices had already been obtained 
the previous year so Mr A had the information he needed to pass to a tax advisor.
I note that Mr A continued to communicate with HLAM about his CGT calculations, and in 
April 2021 it gave him an example calculation. But I dont think it needed to do this, and Im 
pleased to see that it tried to help Mr A where it could. Mr A feels this couldve been done a 
lot sooner, but I dont think HLAM had to provide him with a worked example so I dont think 
its done anything wrong here.
Customer service
Mr A has had a lot of communication with HLAM since he noticed the issues with the 
rounding down of his holdings in the WEIF. Mr A complains that HLAM was slow to respond 
and its responses lacked empathy and skill. Ive carefully looked at all the correspondence 
that both Mr A and HLAM have provided. I can see that Mr A wanted and expected very 
quick responses to all of his messages to HLAM. But Ive considered whether there were 
any delays and I dont think there were.
I understand Mr A wanted immediate responses to his queries, and there were times when 
he had to wait ten days for a response. But I dont think that was an unreasonable time for 
HLAM to respond. I can see that there were many times where HLAM responded within two 
days to Mr A. HLAM explained to Mr A that it responded to messages in chronological order 
but Mr A felt his issue should be prioritised. Ive not seen anything to suggest that HLAM 
shouldve responded to Mr As queries over and above any of its other customers. 
Looking at all the correspondence from HLAM I dont agree that there was a lack of empathy 
or skill. I think it answered Mr As queries as best it could. It investigated the IT issue and 
provided information when it could. It also explained why it wouldnt be able to provide 
specific advice relating to Mr As CGT liability. I can see there was an error in one of HLAMs 
letters to Mr A about the cost price of his units. But, as the cost price issue had been 
resolved in 2019, I think Mr A was aware this was a mistake. So I dont think it caused a 
level of distress that warrants compensation. I have noted that Mr As messages showed his 
frustrations, and at times he used expletives. Regardless of this HLAM continued to 
correspond with Mr A and I dont think its level of customer service was unreasonable. 
In summary, I think that compensation HLAM paid Mr A for the technical issues with the 
display of his units in the WEIF was fair and reasonable. I dont think HLAM has acted 
unreasonably when corresponding with Mr A about his CGT liability or his complaint in 
general. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman