DRN-2263004
The complaint
Mr W complains Domestic and General Insurance Plc has unfairly declined a claim on his 
gadget insurance policy following damage to his laptop.
What happened
Mr W owns a laptop insured by a gadget insurance policy underwritten by D&G. In August 
2019 his laptop was damaged and he reported this to D&G to make a claim on the policy. It 
made arrangements for the laptop to be collected but this arrangement failed.
Mr W then consulted an independent laptop engineer who recommended the laptop would 
need to be replaced. As the engineer wasnt able to do this, Mr W opted to use D&Gs repair 
network and a further collection was arranged but this also failed. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr W complained to D&G. It apologised and awarded 
him £145 for the failed collection attempts, the time Mr W was without a working laptop and 
for poor customer service. It also confirmed it would offer a cash settlement when the laptop 
was received at its offices.
During a telephone call, it supplied Mr W with the address for return and Mr W sent the 
laptop by a tracked and signed-for service. But the laptop didnt reach D&G and so it 
declined to settle the claim. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered all the evidence and concluded that D&G hadnt acted unfairly in declining the 
claim because the laptop wasnt returned successfully. He thought the compensation already 
paid by D&G was fair for the things it did get wrong.
Mr W disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The failed collections
Mr W confirmed this wasnt the issue that really concerned him, hed mentioned it as it was 
connected to the other more important issue and that was the settlement payment for the 
laptop.
But for the sake of completeness, I have considered what happened here too. 
Mr W says D&Gs courier failed to collect his laptop on a number of occasions. Despite it 
telling this service it hadnt seen any evidence to substantiate this, D&G seems to have 
accepted what Mr Ws said. 
I can see how these failed collection attempts would have been inconvenient for Mr W. He 
says they also caused him a loss of income as he had to take time off work but he hasnt 
provided any evidence to substantiate this loss. 
D&G apologised to him for the inconvenience and paid him a total of £145 for these failings 
and for the time he was without a computer as a consequence of them. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The return of the laptop
Ive listened carefully to the call during which D&G gave Mr W the address to return the 
laptop to. This was given clearly and the postcode was delivered using the standard 
phonetic alphabet. 
After the laptop didnt arrive with D&G, Mr W has said he didnt think he should have been 
given the address over the phone. But he didnt raise this issue during the call and didnt say 
he had any queries or concerns about the information he was given at the time.
Ive checked the policy booklet and I can see the address detailed throughout the paperwork 
is the same as that which was given to Mr W over the phone. In fact, this same address is 
contained in the various communications sent to Mr W throughout the claim. Overall, Im 
satisfied Mr W was supplied with the correct address to return the laptop to.
I havent seen any evidence which suggests D&G ever received the laptop. I wont speculate 
on the reasons the laptop didnt reach D&Gs offices or what the delivery company did with it 
after the failed delivery. But as Im satisfied Mr W was given the correct address and that he 
used a third-party delivery service to transport the laptop, the non-delivery is not something I 
can hold D&G responsible for. 
The terms of the policy require the laptop to be returned to D&G so it can claim ownership of 
the product being claimed for. In this case, D&G didnt receive the damaged laptop back and 
because of this, Im satisfied it acted fairly when it declined to make the settlement payment 
to Mr W as the terms of the policy hadnt been complied with.
Overall, Im satisfied D&G has paid Mr W fair compensation for the things it got wrong and I 
wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman