DRN-3560436
The complaint
Ms A complains that she was mis-sold a Silver Account (SA) in 2013 by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A says that Lloyds did not give her enough information either on the phone or online to 
make an informed decision about the SA.
Lloyds says Ms A opened the SA online and she was given the key information to make an 
informed decision and had to acknowledge this before the online process completed.
Ms A had a fee free account for many years before the SA, so she knew these were 
available. And she says she opened the SA in the first instance for the travel insurance.
So, I think its more likely than not that Ms A knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the SA.
Both parties agree that the sale took place online and this service considers online sales 
generally to be non-advised. Ms A says that she was influenced by the telephone 
conversation she had before going online. I accept that Lloyds talked positively to her on the 
phone about the SA, but Im not seen any evidence, such as an assessment of her 
circumstances to show that advice was given.
So, I think its more likely than not that this sale was non-advised. And the only requirement 
on Lloyds was to provide enough information in the online process for Ms A to make an 
informed decision.
And I think it did. I say this because Ms A would have been taken through a series of 
screens where the key information was given, and Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds 
failed to tell her anything that might have put her off. 
Ms A says she wasnt told she had to register for the travel insurance. But there was no 
requirement to do so, so she wouldve been covered if shed relied on it.
I think Ms A was interested in the SA. I say this because she says that she originally wanted 
the travel insurance and, in my view, she was able to use some of the other benefits if shed 
wished to. She also couldve closed the SA at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
Ms A says that she didnt receive any of the communications about the changes to the SA 
that took place or the annual eligibility letters.
Lloyds has produced evidence that it had the correct address for Ms A and that it sent the 
letters out. Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds failed to send such letters out on a large 
scale or regular basis. So, I think its more likely than not that Ms A received most if not all 
those letters.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the SA 
or in the years that followed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman