DRN-4171447
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) made a mistake with the 
payment date when it set up a new arrangement.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Lantern. On 30 December 2022 Mr M spoke with an agent at 
Lantern to discuss his existing arrangements. Mr M asked to increase his monthly payment 
to £50 and for the payments to be debited on the 25th of each month going forward. The 
agent confirmed the new arrangements but the payment date was set to the 2nd of each 
month instead. 
Mr M went on to raise a complaint with Lantern and said it had taken the agreed payment on 
the wrong date. Lantern sent Mr M a final response on 25 February 2023 and apologised for 
the service provided. Lantern agreed that its agent had set the wrong date when arranging 
the new payment plan and apologised for the service provided. Lantern also confirmed the 
correct payment date had been put in place. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. Within its file submission, Lantern 
advised it had reviewed Mr Ms account and taken the decision to write off the outstanding 
balance of £441.61. Our investigator agreed Lantern had made a mistake but thought the 
decision to write off the outstanding balance was a fair way to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
All parties agree Lanterns agent made a mistake when setting up the new plan on 30 
December 2022 and that the wrong date was used. But after Mr M contacted Lantern, it took 
action to resolve the mistake and reset the payment date to the 25th of the month  in line 
with his original request. So Im satisfied that after Mr M highlighted the error to Lantern it 
took reasonably quick action to resolve the mistake. 
Mr M hasnt given us any specific details about financial losses that occurred as a result of 
the mistake. Mr M has explained that the error caused him significant distress and impacted 
his mental health. Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account when deciding how to fairly 
resolve his complaint. 
Whilst I agree Lantern made a mistake, I think its fair to take into account that it has since 
agreed to write off the outstanding balance of £441.61. That meant Mr M was no longer 
required to make monthly payments to Lantern. So whilst I agree Lantern did make a 
mistake, Im satisfied its later decision to write off the outstanding balance is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Ms case. 
As Im satisfied Lantern has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lantern Debt Recovery Ltd has already agreed a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman