DRN-2835619
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc dealt with a claim 
they made under their household insurance following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a household insurance policy, which was underwritten by RSA. On 2 
June 2020, their home sustained damage following an escape of water, which was caused 
by a hot water feed pipe leaking.
Mr and Mrs D contacted RSA on 3 June to report the damage as they wanted to make a 
claim under their policy. It appointed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to in this decision 
as R1, to undertake the restoration works required. It also asked Mr and Mrs D to provide 
photographs of the damaged areas and estimates of the cost of the repairs needed.
R1 attended Mr and Mrs Ds home on 5 June. It measured the areas of Mr and Mrs Ds 
home where drying equipment was required. And, to assist with the drying process, R1 
installed dehumidifiers and fans. It also removed the flooring that had been affected by the 
escape of water.
On 17 June, Mr and Mrs D provided estimates to RSA that confirmed the cost of repairs to 
their property. Their quote for redecoration of the affected areas was £4524 and their flooring 
was estimated to cost £5384. On receipt of the estimates, RSA appointed a field adjuster, 
which Ill call S. RSA wanted S to validate Mr and Mrs Ds claim and determine the scope 
of the reinstatement works required. 
On 18 June, S contacted Mr and Mrs D to arrange a virtual meeting in view of the Covid-19 
restrictions. The appointment took place on 24 June. S provided a report to RSA the 
following day outlining the extent of the reinstatement works needed. 
On receipt of S report, RSA appointed a flooring company, which Ill refer to as R2 to 
attend Mr and Mrs Ds property to quote for the replacement flooring. Mr and Mrs D say they 
requested a virtual appointment but were informed that R2 would have to attend their home 
in person. They say they were told R2 would attend their home on 1 July between 10am and 
1pm. But R2 didnt arrive until 3:15pm  and Mr and Mrs D say they were inconvenienced by 
this delay because they and their family had to spend the day self-isolating upstairs until 
after R2 had left. 
Following R2s visit to their home, RSA paid Mr and Mrs D just over £3355 in settlement of 
the reinstatement to the building. It also paid Mr and Mrs D almost £2700 in settlement of 
their replacement flooring claim. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with how RSA, and its appointed agents, had dealt with their 
claim. They said theyd experienced a delay in the time it took for RSA to resolve their claim. 
And they said that when they complained to RSA about how it, and its appointed agents, had 
dealt with their claim they didnt receive a final response to their complaint until 15 October.
When RSA responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint it agreed thered been shortfalls in the 
service theyd received. And it accepted that thered been a two-week delay in how Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim had been progressed at the outset. To recognise the errors it had identified, 
RSA paid Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation for the trouble and upset theyd been caused.
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had responded to their complaint, Mr and Mrs D referred it 
to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and, while he empathised 
with Mr and Mrs D, he didnt recommend upholding their complaint. He thought the 
compensation RSA had paid was appropriate and fair. But Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our 
investigators view of their complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs D and their family experienced here. I 
appreciate this has been a stressful situation for them all. And I know Mr and Mrs D feel very 
strongly about this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the information provided. If I havent specifically referred to a 
point that Mr and Mrs D or RSA have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
As Ive outlined in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs D had to deal with a number 
of different companies who were appointed by RSA to assist it in handling their claim. I can 
understand why that might have been frustrating and inconvenient. And I can imagine that 
Mr and Mrs D thought, at the start, their claim was going to be sorted out with minimal fuss.
Mr and Mrs D have also told our service that they felt there was a lack of cohesion in the 
way in which their claim was dealt with by all parties that were involved. Theyve pointed 
specifically to anomalies in the flooring scope measurements between R1 and R2. 
I can see RSA took Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the difference in measurements 
seriously. It explained clearly why the anomalies had arisen. It stated that R1 had measured 
the flooring less accurately to R2 as it only needed to calculate the approximate floor space 
for the purposes of drying the room. It further stated that R2, on the other hand, had needed 
to ensure it had taken a more accurate because this was for the purposes of ordering the 
replacement flooring. I can also see that RSA offered to reassure Mr and Mrs D by asking 
R2 to remeasure their flooring. I think this was a reasonable approach.
Its clear that the sums paid to Mr and Mrs D in order to settle their claim were less than the 
estimates they obtained. So, Ive thought about whether that was unfair.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy with RSA states:
Where we can, we offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but, on request, 
we agree to pay you a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount 
we would have paid our preferred supplier.
Having carefully compared all estimates provided by Mr and Mrs D and RSA Im satisfied 
that the extent of the work quoted is largely the same. And I can see that the payments RSA 
made are in line with the costs it would have incurred if it had used the agents it appointed to undertake the reinstatement work. Im therefore satisfied that the amount RSA paid to settle 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim is fair and in line with the terms of their policy.
Based on the chronology Ive seen from both Mr and Mrs D and RSA there appears to be a 
two-week delay in the progression of this claim at the start of the claims process. This delay 
meant a field adjuster wasnt appointed to assist RSA in dealing with Mr and Mrs Ds claim 
until 17 June. 
RSA has accepted that there was a two-week delay in appointing S. And its candidly stated 
that this was as a result of a deviation from its recommended process. Its referred to what 
happened as a crucial error of judgment, which was caused by it asking Mr and Mrs D to 
provide photographs and estimates of the costs for the redecoration of their property and 
replacement of damaged flooring. 
RSAs departure from its recommended process meant that Mr and Mrs D had to find, and 
instruct, a builder to attend their home. They also had to attend a carpet shop in order to 
obtain an estimate. Mr and Mrs D have expressed their concerns about having had to do this 
during a pandemic  particularly when it wasnt required.
In view of the extent of the damage reported, I think it was inevitable that RSA would have 
appointed a field adjuster to assist it in assessing the extent of Mr and Mrs Ds claim. It was 
reasonably foreseeable that the claim would be high in value based on how the damage had 
occurred. I therefore think the two-week delay could have, most likely, been avoided had the 
field adjuster been instructed at the start of the claims process.
I can see that Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that RSA appointed S to assist it in dealing with 
their claim. They feel theyve been treated unfairly. But it isnt unusual for insurers to appoint 
field adjusters in claims where the damage is extensive and/or the value is high. And our 
service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a 
policyholders property to assist it in dealing with their claim.
Here RSA appointed S to assist it in settling Mr and Mrs Ds claim. This is in line with the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy. And S is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses 
property damage on behalf of insurers. I havent seen any evidence that RSA treated Mr and 
Mrs D unfairly in appointing S. And, while Mr and Mrs D raised concerns about how S spoke 
to them, I can see RSA has escalated this on their behalf in an appropriate manner.
Its clear that the two-week delay at the outset of this claim was avoidable. Its likely the 
claims process could have been hastened if RSA had appointed S at the outset and followed 
its usual process.
I can see that, on 26 June, RSA paid Mr and Mrs D their approved redecoration costs. The 
flooring costs were paid slightly later, on 9 July, because R2s report wasnt received by RSA 
until 6 July. This all means that Mr and Mrs Ds claim was settled by RSA within less than six 
weeks of the insured event taking place. Setting aside the avoidable delay at the start of the 
claim process, I dont think the time it took for RSA to settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim was 
protracted. 
Claims for property damage can be complex and take time to resolve - even where a claim 
has been progressed proactively by an insurer. Mr and Mrs D told our service that they 
experienced delays throughout their claim. But I havent seen any evidence pointing to other 
avoidable delays in how RSA settled this claim.
Mr and Mrs D have explained how they were affected by the delay in R2 attending their 
property. They say they were informed R2 would visit their home between 10am and 1pm on 1 July. But the visit didnt take place until 3:15pm. I can appreciate how frustrating that was 
given that Mr and Mrs D and their family were self-isolating within their home until after R2 
had left.
RSA paid Mr and Mrs D £250 to recognise the shortfalls in service they experienced. Its 
said this sum recognises, the avoidable delay at the outset of Mr and Mrs Ds claim, R2s 
delayed attendance at their home and the delay in issuing its final response letter.
I think RSA was right to pay compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr 
and Mrs D were caused. Its clear they dont think this sum adequately reflects their 
experience So, Ive carefully assessed whether RSA acted fairly and reasonably in offering 
to put things right. 
We arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked RSA to 
apologise, which its already done, and to make an appropriate award of compensation to 
reflect the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs D would have been caused. When our service 
awards compensation we look at the overall impact on the people involved. We dont award 
money for each individual error.
It's inherent with property damage claims that stress and inconvenience will be caused to a 
policyholder. But, having taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs D have said about 
how they were affected, Im persuaded that a modest award of compensation is warranted 
here. And I agree with the investigators view that the compensation already paid by RSA is 
an appropriate amount of compensation thats proportionate to the trouble and upset that Mr 
and Mrs D would have been caused here. Its consistent with our approach in similar 
scenarios and its what Id have told RSA to pay had no offer been made. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs D want me to direct RSA to pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that a higher award is warranted here.  
Finally, I can see that Mr and Mrs D have complained about how RSA responded to their 
complaint. Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think RSA hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able 
to uphold that element of Mr and Mrs Ds concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the 
law. So, I wont spend any time in this decision commenting on this part of Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint.
I know this wont be the response Mr and Mrs D will want and I understand they feel very 
strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But, in the overall circumstances, Im 
satisfied that RSA has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to resolve this 
dispute. Im satisfied that the £250 its already paid is fair to compensate Mr and Mrs D for 
the trouble and upset they were caused here. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman