DRN-3081528
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
at some point between 1996 and 2000. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form Mr B completed at the 
time of sale. This is unfortunate, but unsurprising given how long ago the sale took place. 
Lloyds has provided a sample application form which it says wouldve been similar, if not 
the same as the one Mr B wouldve completed. Looking at this sample applications there 
is a separate section for the PPI. Within this section there is a brief description of the 
cover on offer. Mr B wouldve had to tick a box within this section if he wanted the cover. 
Lloyds and Mr B say the PPI was arranged during a meeting. I dont know what was 
discussed at the time Mr B took out the card, but I would have expected Mr B to have 
had an opportunity to read over the form he wouldve completed and raise any questions 
he had at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr B was eligible for the cover and although 
he says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer at the time the PPI wouldve 
paid out alongside this. Mr B hasnt told us of any other existing means he had that 
wouldve helped him if he was unable to work. So, it seems he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr B also hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr B would have declined the 
cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions and excluded 
mental health conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite 
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
him. So I think he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman