DRN-3147765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J feel that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to their 
account when they were experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J complained to Barclays about overdraft charges and interest applied to their 
account. They specifically referred to a period of time after Mr J lost his job in 2017, when he 
was unemployed for 15 months and where they say they were seriously struggling with their 
finances. Mr and Mrs J say Barclays charges and interest made their situation worse.
Barclays did not uphold their complaint, so they referred their concerns to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Js concerns, she explained that she didnt 
think Barclays had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mr and Mrs Js account. Mr and 
Mrs J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Mr and Mrs J over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs J if it continued to apply any interest, fees and 
charges to their account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that they were 
experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where 
Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs J fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr and Mrs J unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at 
their account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties 
that should have flagged to Barclays that Mr and Mrs J might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Mr and Mrs J werent in financial difficulties, I can 
entirely understand that Mr J not working for 15 months would have had a serious impact on 
their finances. But Barclays could only help them if it was aware of their difficulties, and there 
is no sign that Mr or Mrs J contacted Barclays to ask for help. So the only way that Barclays 
would have known they were struggling is if the management of their account began to 
cause Barclays concern. But while I accept that Mr and Mrs J were using their overdraft 
regularly, the amount being credited to the account each month didnt indicate that there was 
no reasonable prospect of them seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the 
overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to the account. And while they did go over their 
overdraft limit on a small number of occasions, I dont think this was enough to flag to 
Barclays that something might be wrong.
As Ive said, I accept that this doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs J werent experiencing 
financial difficulty. But there isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered Barclays 
to review their account in more detail, or alerted Barclays to any potential financial 
difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have prompted 
Barclays to contact Mr and Mrs J directly to ask if they needed help.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs J, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays hasnt treated them unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman