DRN-3962259
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the redress offered by Ald Automotive Limited (who Ill call Ald) to 
resolve a complaint about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss P, but I think Alds offer has been reasonable here and Im not 
asking it to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres no dispute that there was a problem with this car. Miss P returned it to the 
dealership in July 2022 when it was noted that the steering rack bolts were loose. The bolts 
were re-torqued and the car was returned to her around 4/5 August 2022.
But the manufacturer asked for the car to be returned in mid-August 2022. They arranged for 
the steering rack to be replaced and for some modifications to the mating surface on the 
subframe. 
In November 2022 the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) provided a report to 
Miss P on the problem and what had been done to rectify it. The report said:
To clarify the findings, whilst I agree that the symptoms were from the steering rack being 
loose at its fixings, the root cause was a defect with the subframe itself and not with the 
steering rack or the tightness of the retaining bolts. Essentially the mating surfaces between 
the subframe and where the steering rack is fastened were not flat as per its design. This 
was found to be due to welding debris (spatter) from the manufacturing process which 
therefore reduced the mating surface area.
Over time this reduced surface area caused movement at the fixings to occur, and this then
reduced the forces applied to the fastening bolts, causing them to become loosened. This 
finally resulted in the overall symptom experienced with the steering rack becoming 
insecure.
It is because of this debris, that in cases whereby the bolts are refastened to the correct 
tightness they may loosen again without the rework to the subframe. The manufacturer has 
stated that a technical service action has since been conducted to your vehicle to rework the 
subframe and replace the fastening bolts. Although not required by the technical service 
action, the steering rack was also replaced as a precaution in your case.
The redress offered
In August 2022 Ald offered to refund two monthly finance instalments. When Miss P had to 
return the car again they provided an additional £500 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused, and £100 for taxis when a suitable hire car couldnt be 
sourced.
I understand Miss P doesnt think thats sufficient. She says the car was returned to her in an 
unsafe condition and her and her family were lucky not have suffered a physical injury as a 
result of the defect. Shes explained the emotional impact the problems have caused her and 
has explained she now has a vehicle she has no trust in but had no option but to retain.
It's only fair that Ald compensate Miss P for the time she was without a car, but I think 
theyve done that. Theyve refunded two monthly finance instalments and I think thats about 
as long as Miss P was deprived of the vehicle. It seems she was without the car from about 
11 July 2022 to about 5 August 2022, and then again from about 2 September 2022 until 
about 20 September 2022. 
Ald should also compensate Miss P for the distress and inconvenience caused. Miss P has 
been inconvenienced by the initial breakdown, the subsequent repair work, having to 
arrange alternative transport, and having to escalate her complaint to this service. It would 
undoubtedly have been distressing to learn the steering rack was loose, and I can 
understand Miss Ps concerns when the manufacturer insisted further repairs were carried 
out. But whilst I understand the concern the fault would raise, the DVSA report explained 
that the steering rack was still functional and the remedial work to the substrate was carried 
out because the bolts may loosen again. There was no suggestion that they had or that 
Miss P or her family were in any danger in the period before the remedial work was 
completed. Indeed, the DVSA explained that they didnt consider the fault a safety defect.
Overall, taking all of that information into account, I think Alds offer of £500 was a fair one 
and ultimately Im not asking them to take any further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman