DRN-3517730
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined her travel insurance 
claim. She is represented by her husband who Ill refer to as Mr D.
What happened
On 18 May 2021 Mrs D bought an annual trip travel insurance policy insured by Admiral.  
The policy covered from 18 May 2021 to 17 May 2022 and Mrs D was the only person 
insured under the policy.
In July 2021 Mrs D booked a trip abroad between 4 to 16 August 2021 for herself and Mr D. 
Mr D bought a separate travel insurance policy with Admiral.
On 1 August 2021 Mrs and Mr D were told that someone theyd been in close contact with 
had tested positive for Covid-19. They took tests and on 2 August 2021 the NHS notified 
them that Mr D had tested positive for Covid-19 but Mrs D had tested negative. The 
notification from the NHS said Mr D must self isolate immediately for 10 days as should 
anyone who lived with him. They immediately cancelled their trip. They received some 
refunds from the airline and hotel providers but lost holiday costs of £5,577. Mrs D claimed 
for her portion of the costs under her policy and Mr D claimed for his portion under his policy.
Admiral declined Mrs Ds claim. It said under the policy terms if she contracted Covid-19 
within 14 days before a trip she would be covered for cancellation, but if her travel 
companion had Covid-19 and she had to self isolate because of that there was no cover. 
Admiral also declined Mr Ds claim under his policy but for different reasons to the above. 
Mrs D complained to us as did Mr D. Weve considered Mr Ds complaint separately.
Mrs D said Admiral unfairly declined her claim as she had followed the NHS instructions and 
government regulations to self-isolate. Also shed tested positive for Covid-19 on 5 August 
2021, with her symptoms starting on 4 August 2021, but Admiral said the claim still wasnt 
covered as the trip had been cancelled due to Mr D testing positive for Covid-19.
Our investigator said Admiral fairly declined Mrs Ds claim. Mrs D disagrees and wants an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
This decision is about Mrs Ds complaint. Ive made a separate decision about Mr Ds 
complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, Im sympathetic to the situation she and Mr D found 
themselves in and I appreciate the trip was for a very special occasion. But I think Admiral 
acted fairly in declining her claim. Ill explain why. 
The policy sets out the terms of the contract of insurance between Mrs D and Admiral. 
Section 3 of the policy headed Covid-19 cover says:
IMPORTANT
This section of your policy explains the cover we provide for Covid-19
Cover applies subject to a medically approved test showing a positive result for 
Covid-19 as certified by a registered Medical Practitioner

Section B: Cancelling or Cutting short your trip
1. What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for only your 
proportion of the irrecoverable costs which you have paid or must legally pay 
at the time you became aware of the need to cancel or cut short your trip 
(subject to a medically approved test showing a positive result for Covid-19 as 
certified by a registered Medical Practitioner) for any of the following reasons:
you contract Covid-19 within the 14 days prior to your trip departure...
So the policy would cover a cancellation if Mrs D contracted Covid-19 within 14 days before 
her trip. However, the cover for Covid-19 section also contains exclusions one of which is:
2. What is not covered
We will not pay any claim
for cancelling your trip because you chose to, were advised, or recommended to self 
isolate due to the potential exposure to Covid-19 (for example NHS track and trace).
The policy document also provides a table which lists the insured reasons for cancelling a 
trip and shows who will be covered if Mrs D makes a claim for those reasons. One of the 
highlighted reasons for cancelling a trip is Contracting Covid-19 within the 14 days prior to 
the trip. The table shows if Mrs D contracted Covid-19 within 14 days prior to the trip, she 
would be covered to claim for cancellation. The table also shows if her travel companion or 
close relative tests positive, there is no cover for cancellation.
Im satisfied the policy clearly sets out there will only be cover if the trip is cancelled due to 
Mrs D testing positive result for Covid-19 within the 14 days before the trip, and that didnt 
happen. The policy is clear theres no cancellation cover if Mrs D has to self isolate because 
Mr D has to self isolate because he has Covid-19. 
Mrs D tested positive for Covid-19 on 5 August 2021 but I think Admiral could reasonably 
say her claim still wasnt covered as the trip, which was due to start 4 August, had already 
been cancelled due to Mr D testing positive for Covid-19. Mrs Ds positive result wasnt the 
reason for the cancellation and she didnt have a positive test until the trip would have 
started.I find that Admiral fairly declined the claim. Theres no cover for Mrs Ds claim under the 
policy terms and theres no basis on which I can say that Admiral must pay the claim on a 
fair and reasonable basis.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman