DRN-2835354
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt do enough to 
prevent him from falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. In October 2017, Mr S was sadly the victim of an 
investment scam. He sent over £40,000 spread across four payments to what he believed at 
the time to be a genuine investment firm that Ill refer to as B. 
When B didnt pay him the agreed investment returns, Mr S concluded hed been the victim 
of a scam. He reported this to Halifax in July 2020. He says Halifax didnt do enough to 
protect him from fraud and asked to be reimbursed his loss. 
Halifax declined to refund Mr S. They explained that the contingent reimbursement model 
(CRM  a voluntary code intended to help victims of fraud and scams) wasnt applicable as 
Mr S payments had all been made before its introduction. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary he concluded that Halifax had acted fairly in the circumstances. Theyd 
identified one of Mr S payments as unusual, had asked him questions about it and had 
provided suitable warnings but Mr S still wanted to proceed. He concluded that Halifax had 
done enough to make Mr S aware of the risks involved. 
Mr S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, particularly given the significant sums involved  so 
Ill explain why.
Mr S made the following payments as a result of the scam which were all instructed through 
his online banking:
£15,001 on 11 October 2017
£2,500 on 22 October 2017
£10,000 on 27 October 2017
£12,500 on 28 October 2017
Banks have long standing obligations to act in their customers best interests and to be alert 
to fraud and scams. Generally speaking, this means Id expect a bank to be looking out for 
unusual or uncharacteristic payments that might indicate that their customer was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. 
In this case Halifax identified the £10,000 payment as unusual. They blocked the payment 
and spoke with Mr S on the phone. Halifax havent been able to provide a copy of that call. 
But irrespective of what was said on it, the end result was that Halifax were still concerned 
and asked Mr S to attend a branch with identification before they would unlock his account 
and release the payment. So, although I havent heard it, I cant say that Halifax failed to 
protect Mr S on that first call as the end result was that he was required to attend a branch.
Once in branch Mr S had his identity verified and he then spoke on the phone to someone 
from Halifaxs fraud team. Ive listened to this call. The agent clearly explained that the 
circumstances of Mr S payment instruction closely matched those of common scams. He 
asked if Mr S had researched the company he was investing with and whether he was 
satisfied that they were genuine. He also explained that in the event that this was a scam, it 
is often very difficult to get any money back. 
Mr S was clearly frustrated at having been required to attend a branch and with the 
intervention in him being able to freely instruct payments. He was adamant he wanted to go 
ahead with the payment. I agree with our investigator that I dont think there was anything 
Halifax could have said to Mr S that would have resulted in him changing his mind about 
instructing the payment. 
In some circumstances, it might be appropriate for a bank to go against a customers wish 
and to refuse to make a payment at all. But this is a significant step to take, with potential 
consequences for a bank being held liable for any consequential loss. And in this particular 
case, despite Halifax having suspicions about the payment and clearly articulating these to 
Mr S, I dont think it is reasonable to have expected them to have refused the payment 
instruction altogether. 
Halifax required Mr S to attend a branch which gave a natural pause due to the time taken to 
do so. This would have given Mr S an opportunity to reflect on the situation. Also, as a result 
of the conversation in branch, Mr S then had to go back online to reinstruct the payment as 
the initial one had been cancelled. I think Halifax did enough to make Mr S aware of the risks 
of the payment he was instructing, but ultimately it was Mr S own decision to go ahead.
I also note that in January 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) first published a 
warning on its website about B. This was after all Mr S payments had already been made. 
When reporting the scam Mr S described how he had checked Bs entry at Companies 
House and that they had been trading for a number of years. So even if Halifax had directed 
Mr S to the FCA website, no warning was displayed at that time. 
Given the conversations that took place around the £10,000 payment. I dont think Halifax 
were wrong to allow the £12,500 payment through the following day. Even if it ought to have 
also been challenged, Ive no reason to suppose that the interaction would have been 
different to what happened around the £10,000 payment that Mr S instructed despite the 
warnings. 
Mr S has made much of the fact that the first two payments of his werent challenged by 
Halifax. But for the same reasons as above, I dont think this makes a difference. Even if I 
were to conclude that Halifax should have intervened in the first or second payment, Ive got 
no reason to think that Mr S would have acted differently to how he did later the same month. I think its most likely that Mr S would have instructed the payments anyway, likely in 
similar circumstances to what he did for the payment that was challenged. 
For completeness, I dont think Halifax were being unreasonable when not considering this 
complaint against the CRM. The CRM only applies to payments made after its introduction 
which took place in May 2019, long after these payments had all been made. 
When Mr S reported this to Halifax in July 2020, they didnt take any steps to contact the 
beneficiary bank. Halifax thought it was unlikely that any funds would have remained nearly 
three years after the payments had been made. I agree that it is a common feature of scams 
like this that the funds are quickly moved on from the beneficiary accounts. However, I have 
on rare occasions seen instances where funds or partial funds have remained after a 
significant period of time. I think it would have been good practice for Halifax to have 
contacted the beneficiary bank, despite the time that had passed. 
At my request Halifax contacted the beneficiary bank. But unfortunately, they confirmed that 
no funds remained in that account in July 2020. As such I cant say that Halifaxs failure to 
raise this at the time made a difference to whether any money would have been recovered. 
Im of course sorry that Mr S lost such a significant sum. But as I dont think Halifax are 
responsible for failures that either caused the loss, or prevented its recovery, Im not going to 
tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman