DRN-3283650
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont reimburse the full 
amount he lost to an investment scammer. 
What happened
Mr I received an email from his friend introducing him to an investment company called 
Grandefex. 
After speaking with representatives of Grandefex, Mr I decided to invest with them. From 
May 2020 to August 2020, Mr I made payments of approximately £180,000 towards his 
investment with Grandefex. Mr I made these payments from his First Direct current account 
by way of Faster Payments, International payments and Visa debit card payments. Mr I 
received a credit from his investment of approximately £2,600 in August 2020. 
Mr I contacted First Direct in September 2020 to report that he believed he was the victim of 
an investment scam. Mr I has since found out that his friends email account was hacked 
and the recommendation didnt come from them. HSBC attempted to recall the International 
payments but was unable to. It didnt think Mr I had any chargeback dispute rights in respect 
of his Visa debit card payment. But it offered to refund 50% of Mr Is Faster Payments 
totalling £37,194.15 (after taking into consideration the credit he received from the supposed 
investment) in accordance with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr I referred his complaint to this office. During the 
course of our investigation, First Direct agreed to increase its offer to the full amount of Mr Is 
Faster Payments totalling £77,000 in accordance with the CRM. Our Investigator felt this 
was a fair offer on the basis of intervention calls hed listened to between First Direct and Mr 
I. 
Mr I didnt agree. In summary he felt:
First Direct could have carried out more extensive checks as reviews on 
Google/Trustpilot gave clear red flag warnings. The documentation he shared with 
First Direct clarifies this was a high risk investment as he could lose 32% on each 
trade.
He checked Trustpilot in November 2020 and it had an average rating with nearly as 
many excellent reviews. Later, a warning was added to Trustpilot but this was after 
his initial investment and was very easy to miss. 
He didnt know the email introducing him to Grandefex was not sent by his friend as 
she was hacked, so it was reasonable to assume it was a genuine recommendation. 
Grandefex used high pressure sales tactics to persuade him to invest more. 
First Direct didnt take any meaningful steps to question the large transfers which 
were out of the ordinary for him and gave very little post scam advice. 
Mr I further added that First Direct ought to have pursued a chargeback claim. He also said 
that First Direct didnt explain some of the transfers were being made abroad and was 
unaware he couldnt claim compensation on all the payments under the CRM. There have 
been cases in the press where HSBC settled similar claims in full.
 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As First Direct has agreed to refund Mr Is Faster Payments in full in accordance with the 
CRM, I wont consider these payments in this decision. As Mr I is aware, CRM doesnt apply 
to his International or debit card payments, so Ill only consider these payments and whether 
First Direct ought to have done more to prevent them in this decision. 
I am satisfied that Mr I authorised the payments in question here. This means that although 
Mr I subsequently lost the majority of this money, under the Payment Services Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr I is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider First 
Direct should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied there were fraud triggers immediately because First Directs fraud team flagged 
Mr Is first attempted international payment of approximately £36,000 to Bitstamp on 12 May 
2020. Ive listened to the call between Mr I and the fraud team. Mr I confirmed the payment 
was genuine. When asked what the payment was for, he said its about Bitcoin with a friend 
of his hed been dealing with. Mr I confirmed again that he was investing in Bitcoin. The 
fraud team asked if Mr I had made other payments or whether it was the first transfer, Mr I 
said hed made other payments to it. Mr I said it was somebody who hes known for some 
time. 
I dont think Mr I was entirely transparent with First Directs fraud team. Whilst a friend had 
introduced Mr I to Grandefex, he was intending to buy Bitcoin to fund his account with 
Grandefex, not his friend. I dont think Mr I gave First Direct the opportunity to provide him 
with a meaningful warning because he was clear that he was investing with a friend hed 
known for some time. I dont think his answers to First Directs questions would have caused 
it concern that he was at risk of fraud or a scam. 
First Directs fraud team flagged another of Mr Is payments in dispute on 28 July 2020. This 
payment was to Coinbase. I listened to this call. Mr I was asked if hed used Coinbase 
before, he said no. The fraud team asked Mr I whether hed done his own research or whether hed been contacted by anybody, Mr I said hed done his own research. The caller 
asked Mr I where hed obtained the details, he said hed found them on the internet himself. 
The caller advised Mr I that if someone had told him to make the payments, if its fraud or a 
scam First Direct wouldnt be able to recover the payments. He said he wasnt concerned 
about this and was still happy to proceed. 
I dont think First Direct ought reasonably to have known at the point of this call that Mr I was 
at risk of financial harm, so I dont think it could have done anymore to warn him. 
Ive taken into consideration that Mr I was a pensioner at the time he was scammed and that 
he wasnt familiar with high risk investments. But overall, I dont think Mr I was willing to go 
into any further detail about his dealings with Grandefex during his calls with First Direct. 
Because of this, I dont think First Direct missed an opportunity to provide him with a 
meaningful warning that could have uncovered the scam. I take Mr Is point that there was 
adverse information about Grandefex at the point he made his payments to them in the form 
of a warning from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And I would have reasonably 
expected First Direct to have been aware of this. But Mr I did not make his payments directly 
to Grandefex and instead made payments to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. He also 
advised First Direct that hed carried out his own research. The purpose of First Directs 
fraud team calls were to ascertain whether Mr I was at risk of fraud or a scam. I dont think 
First Direct could have reasonably known Mr I was dealing with Grandefex because he didnt 
disclose this information and actively advised he was paying a friend who hed known for a 
long time. 
So, I agree with our Investigator that I dont think First Direct could have prevented the scam 
from taking place, despite efforts to. And I think Mr I was determined to make the payments 
he made. 
Recovery
First Direct made attempts to recover Mr Is International Payments but was unable to. I cant 
reasonably have expected it to have done anymore than this and unfortunately either the 
recipient banks didnt respond or advised they couldnt return the funds as they were 
exchanged for crypto and not available to return. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. First Direct) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr I.
Visa does permit dispute claims relating to investment trading. As our Investigator explained, 
this requires specific evidence that Mr I didnt appear to have. But here, Mr I didnt pay 
Grandefex directly and instead made his debit card payment to a legitimate crypto exchange 
 Bitstamp any attempted chargeback claim would have processed against Bitstamp, not 
Grandefex.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute that when Mr I paid Bitstamp, they did what they were 
asked to do, i.e. convert his £sterling into crypto and send it onto the wallet of his choice (his 
account with Grandefex). So even if First Direct had attempted to process a chargeback claim for his debit card payment, Bitstamp would most likely have defended the claim on this 
basis. 
I dont think First Direct acted unfairly by choosing not to process chargeback claims for Mr I 
because I dont think it had a reasonable prospect of success in doing so.  
I realise this will come as a great disappointment to Mr I not least because hes lost a 
substantial sum of money here. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think First Direct 
could have prevented Mr I from making the International or debit card payments, nor do I 
think it could have done anymore to recover them. I also dont think First Direct acted 
unreasonably by choosing not to process a chargeback claim on Mr Is behalf. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) made a 
fair and reasonable offer to return £77,000 to Mr I. It has already paid him £37,194.15, so it 
should:
Pay Mr I the remaining amount of £39,805.85.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman