DRN-3234465
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined a claim for storm damage 
under his home insurance.
What happened
Mr P had an Admiral home insurance policy. In December 2020, part of a boundary wall on 
Mr Ps property collapsed during a storm. He made a claim on his insurance. 
Admiral appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report concluded the 
cause of damage was primarily due to the age of the wall and wear and tear caused by 
vegetation growing over and around it. Based on this report, Admiral declined Mr Ps claim. It 
told him the weather conditions didnt fall under its definition of a storm and that its surveyor 
concluded the damage was due to wear and tear.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Admiral to 
settle his claim and pay compensation for the stress its decision caused him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She agreed with 
Admirals conclusion that the damage was caused mainly by wear and tear, and the storm 
simply highlighted an existing problem. As wear and tear wasnt covered by Mr Ps policy, 
she didnt think it was unfair for Admiral to decline the claim. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made several points about why he believes Admirals decision was unfair. For 
example, I know hes particularly concerned about an outcome code in the surveyors 
report. Ive looked at everything hes sent us but I dont think I need to comment on each 
point to reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on what I think are the key issues.
Like most polices, Mr Ps cover only makes Admiral liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. 
Mr Ps policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm (Section 1: 
Buildings). The policy booklet defines a storm as: Wind with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph), heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm 
in 24 hours, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
The local weather records for where Mr P lives show wind gusts of up to 53mph on 27 
December 2020. I accept that this doesnt quite meet the policy definition of a storm.
So Ive also checked the Met Offices website and its information for the 2020/21 storm 
season. This shows Storm Bella hit the UK on 26/27 December 2020. This storm was 
characterised by heavy rain and extremely strong winds and, in the part of the country where 
Mr P lives, was described as one of the most powerful storms of the year1. I also note that 
the Royal Meteorological Society considers winds over 47mph to be enough to cause 
structural damage.
On balance, Im satisfied that the weather conditions in Mr Ps area immediately before he 
discovered the damage to his wall can reasonably be considered a storm. So I think it was 
unfair for Admiral to reject his claim on that basis.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
I think most people would agree that extremely strong winds can cause walls to collapse. So 
Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ps wall is consistent with storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
This is the key question.
Admiral relied on its surveyors report to decline the claim. This said, in summary:
The wall was 150 years old and not in very good condition.
The walls integrity was compromised due to the trees and vegetation growing next 
to and over it.
Sections of the wall were leaning, and the pointing was crumbling.
The primary cause of the collapse was wear and tear due to age, and vegetation 
growing around and through it.
No other walls in neighbouring properties were damaged.
Mr P says, in summary:
1 https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/binaries/content/assets/metofficegovuk/pdf/weather/learn-about/uk-
past-events/interesting/2020/2020_11_storm_bella.pdf The surveyors report is questionable, and his photos are misleading.
Expert opinion is that ivy wouldnt cause the wall to collapse and might actually help 
strengthen the wall.
A professional brickwork restorer provided his opinion that the wall was in fair 
condition prior to collapse.
Three separate contractors said the cause of the collapse was the storm.
Mr P sent us photos showing other sections of the wall in good condition. He also sent us 
the three quotes for repairs. Ive reviewed these:
1. Contractor A provided a quote to rebuild wall damaged by the storm. However, the 
quote also says: this is not the first time that this wall has been repaired. Wind, 
rain and age made it so weak, also the ivy that grow into it destroy the wall 
completely [sic].
2. Contractor B, a specialist restorer, noted it was instructed to examine a wall 
damaged by strong winds. Again, theres no suggestion that the contractor 
examined the cause of damage and he suggested a more in depth look at the wall 
might be needed to refute Admirals conclusions.
3. Contractor C, a contractor to the local council, said the wall was damaged and 
knocked down by the very strong winds of Storm Bella.
I understand Mr Ps arguments. However, these are quotes for repairs, not detailed 
inspections to determine the cause of damage. I also note:
Contractor A noted in his email to Mr P that he had no input from a professional 
surveyor. 
Contractor B suggested a further inspection would be necessary to disprove 
Admirals conclusions  theres no evidence this was done. I also note that the same 
experts opinion that the wall was in fair condition was based on a visit in 2017, at 
least three years before the wall collapsed. 
Contractor C offered no basis for his opinion that the wall would still be standing if not 
for the storm.
Also, I dont think Mr P has provided sufficient evidence here to counter Admirals surveyors 
points about the impact of the trees and vegetation. Mr P has focused on the ivy, and Im 
happy to accept his experts view that ivy can be more beneficial than destructive when it 
comes to the walls general strength. However, Admirals report highlighted trees, tree roots, 
and other vegetation caused the wall to lean. I think its reasonable to conclude that this 
would have caused some damage and could have been a factor in the walls collapse.
Ive considered Mr Ps evidence very carefully, but he hasnt persuaded me that Admirals 
surveyors conclusions were wrong. I think these conclusions  that damage due to wear 
and tear was the primary reason for the walls collapse  were reasonable. It follows that I 
dont think Admiral acted unfairly when it declined Mr Ps claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman