DRN-3554333
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a failed mortgage application with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (BoS). The application failed because of a mistake by BoS and Mr B wants to be 
compensated for the financial losses and the upset and inconvenience he suffered.
What happened
In 2020 Mr B decided to buy a property. The plot of land associated with the house was to 
be split at the time of the sale and a piece sold off separately by the vendor. The property 
was being marketed on this basis. Mr B applied for a mortgage with BoS and as part of the 
assessment of the application, it commissioned a survey of the property. The valuation was 
completed in February 2021. Unfortunately, when the valuation was completed, the fact that 
the plot was being split was not taken into account, and the value given was for the house 
and the entire area of land that was then currently part of the title. Even taking that omission 
into account, the property was valued at £2,000 less than Mr B had agreed to pay for it. 
The property purchase price was renegotiated and reduced. Subsequently a mortgage offer 
was issued to Mr B, which was based on the potentially incorrect valuation. It was 
April 2021, shortly before Mr B had hoped to complete on his purchase, that the error with 
the valuation came to light. The valuer was contacted and asked if/how the change to the 
boundary of the property title would affect the valuation. It took some time for BoS to receive 
a response as further information about the property title was needed. 
On 10 May 2021 Mr B informed BoS that while he had managed to extend his stay in his 
rental property, this had only been agreed for a short time and he would have nowhere to 
live in four weeks time. Mr B has told us that he moved out of his rental property and stayed 
with his parents. It doesnt appear that he gave BoS details of his temporary address.
During the process of reviewing the valuation, a further error occurred; the mortgage funds 
were incorrectly sent to Mr Bs solicitors. The money was returned by Mr Bs solicitors, but 
as this didnt happen immediately, a record of a mortgage account was added to Mr Bs 
credit file.
29 April 2021 Mr B sent an email to BoS conveyance support team. He informed it that 
because of the mistake with the valuation, the sale might not go through as planned. He 
explained that if it didnt, he would have losses in respect of a weeks holiday from work 
(£1,000), removal costs of £3,000, additional costs for solicitors and other things, he would 
lose £4,000 in total. He said he was close to pulling out of the mortgage with BoS and 
seeking a mortgage elsewhere.
The valuer provided further comment and BoS decided that it was happy to progress with 
the mortgage as it was. This was confirmed to Mr Bs solicitors on 14 May 2021. This was 
ten days after the proposed completion date. Unfortunately, the vendor of the property Mr B 
was buying pulled out of the sale. BoS was informed this was the case on 17 May 2021.
Mr B found a different property to purchase and intended to take a mortgage with a different 
lender. He contacted BoS at the beginning of June 2021 because his credit file was showing 
that he had a mortgage with BoS. 
Mr Bs new purchase completed in August 2021.
Mr B initially complained about what was happening due to the error with the valuation in 
April 2021 and later added the issue with his credit file to the complaint.
BoS upheld Mr Bs complaint. It accepted that the issue with the valuation had caused a 
delay in the process which had resulted in Mr B and his partner suffering upset and 
inconvenience. It offered them £500 compensation for this. In addition, it said it was 
correcting Mr Bs credit file to ensure that it didnt show a mortgage. BoS also acknowledged 
that there might have been additional costs incurred as a consequence of the error and it 
offered to consider any such costs Mr B put forward. 
Mr B didnt receive BoS response to his complaint when it was originally sent as the address 
used was Mr Bs former rental address, which he had already moved out of. He was later 
provided with a copy. He didnt then provide BoS with details of costs he wanted to claim, as 
he had already referred his complaint to this service. He informed us that he had rejected the 
compensation offer and wanted to continue his complaint with this service.
BoS told us that it didnt consider that it was responsible for the complaint response letter not 
having been received, as Mr B hadnt told it about his change of address. 
Our investigators asked Mr B what additional costs hed incurred because of the failed house 
purchase. Mr B put forward information about the losses he believed hed suffered: 
A hotel stay when doing viewings to find an alternative property. This involved two nights 
accommodation starting on 28 July 2021. Mr B provided a receipt for this item, which 
amounted to £390.50, but included £82 in hospitality charges. Plus, he requested £300 
fuel costs for the journey. 
The costs associated with the legal work done for the purchase that fell through. Mr B 
provided an initial quote of £1,069, but not the final invoice showing what he was actually 
charged. 
Rental of his previous home for an additional month at £2,250. No documentary 
evidence of Mr Bs original exit date from the property, the extension or payment of the 
additional rent was provided.
Rent at his parents house of £1,000 per month for four months. No evidence of these 
payments was provided.
His partners loss of earnings at £2,000 per month, as she had been unable to work due 
to the effect on her of BoS error. Evidence that her doctor had found her unfit to work 
due to her mental health around the time of the proposed move was provided. No further 
evidence was given.
Storage of furniture for the period between Mr B leaving his rental property and moving 
into his new home of £1,055.84. No documentary evidence of this cost was provided.
Van hire and fuel to move his furniture and possessions into storage where he was 
planning to buy and then to his new home at £750. No evidence of this cost was 
provided.
Fuel costs for five journeys from where he was renting to where he was buying at £600. 
No evidence of the journeys or the costs were provided.
£300 deposit (cash) paid to the removal firm that had been commissioned for the 
planned removals of his furniture and possessions, which wasnt refunded.The purchase of three items of furniture for the original property which couldnt be used 
in the new property. No evidence of the purchase of these items was provided.
The loss on three items of white goods purchased for the original property, which were 
not needed in the new one, and had to be sold on. No evidence of the purchase or sale 
of the items was provided.
The new property was more expensive than the original, which will mean additional 
mortgage payments over the term of over £26,000.
£3,000 compensation for the stress the error caused him and his partner.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He recommended that BoS increase its 
offer to cover the following items: 
The valuation fee charged in relation to the failed property purchase. 
The legal costs incurred in relation to the failed property purchase. Mr B would need to 
provide BoS with evidence of the costs actually incurred. 
The cost of the rental vehicle and fuel for transporting his possessions from his rental 
property to storage near where he was planning to move to. Mr B would need to provide 
BoS with evidence of the costs incurred.
The cost of storing Mr Bs house contents for the period between the date the failed 
purchase should have completed and completion on his new purchase. Mr B would need 
to provide BoS with evidence of the costs incurred.
The lost deposit for the removals firm if Mr B evidenced that the £300 cash was used for 
that purpose and that it wasnt refunded. 
Initially, the investigator also concluded that the cost of the July 2021 hotel stay should also 
be covered, if Mr B evidenced that he had viewings booked during his stay. He didnt do so, 
so the investigator, ultimately, didnt recommend this item be paid.  In addition, the 
investigator was satisfied that the compensation for the upset and inconvenience Mr B had 
suffered was sufficient.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view as he didnt thing it wasnt enough to compensate 
him for the losses and the suffering BoS caused. He asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 June 2022. I set out my conclusions 
and the reasons for having reached them in that document. Below is an excerpt.
BoS has accepted that problems within its process caused delays in the progress of the 
mortgage and, ultimately, likely led to Mr B losing the property he was buying. It has also 
accepted that the mistake in advancing the mortgage monies effected Mr Bs credit file and 
that it was responsible for this. As such, I dont need to consider whether BoS is at fault in 
this matter, but rather I need to assess what the appropriate redress is to compensate Mr B 
for both his financial and non-financial losses.
I will firstly comment on the matter of Mr Bs credit file. BoS accepted that the mortgage 
advance shouldnt have been made and that it needed to correct Mr Bs credit file. It did this 
immediately and appears to have also contacted the alternative lender Mr B had applied to 
in order to explain the situation and prevent any further delays in his application being 
considered. BoS has confirmed that the mortgage with it has been removed from Mr Bs 
credit file (and, therefore, wont have an ongoing effect), the mortgage payment taken was 
refunded and it is clear that his mortgage application with the alternative lender succeeded. 
So Mr B has been placed in the position, i.e. a credit file that hasnt been affected by the 
mistake, as he should always have been.The aim of redress for financial losses is to place a consumer, as far as possible, in the 
same position as they would have been, but for the mistake made by the financial business. 
When doing so, while I can make decisions in principle, to be able to ask a business to 
reimburse costs, it usually needs to be evidenced that the costs were actually incurred and 
are linked to the error. This doesnt always need to be in the form of receipts or invoices, but 
can be evidenced by alternative means, for example records of card payments on bank 
statements. 
BoS has agreed to pay Mr B the legal costs for the failed property purchase and a refund of 
the valuation fee, although it only agreed to the latter in order to help resolve the complaint. 
It is clear that in the circumstances Mr B will have had to pay two sets of valuation fees and 
legal costs, which would not have been the case had the original purchase not failed. In light 
of this, I am satisfied that it is reasonable that Mr B should be reimbursed for both of these 
items. BoS handled the valuation fee and so knows the amount it needs to refund. However, 
Mr B hasnt provided the final bill for the legal costs associated with the failed purchase. He 
should provide this information to BoS as soon as possible, or alternatively, his solicitors 
could confirm that information direct to BoS.
Mr B has said that he made multiple journeys after his original purchase fell through to the 
area of the country he wanted to buy a property in, in order to complete viewings. Given that 
most people wouldnt purchase a property without viewing it first, I think it is likely that Mr B 
did visit properties. However, it isnt clear when this happened and where he was based at 
those times. 
In its comments to our investigator, BoS said that it was not willing to pay costs associated 
with Mr B travelling to and staying in the area of the country he was buying in. This was 
because it was his choice to buy a property so far away from where he was living at the time. 
I would agree that it was Mr Bs choice to buy in a particular area and Mr B would have been 
responsible for the costs of house hunting in normal circumstances. However, these were 
not normal circumstances. Mr B was having to find an alternative property to the one he had 
already paid the costs of finding, because of delays caused by BoS. As such, the costs 
associated with Mr B house hunting for a second time are not costs that reasonably he 
would have always had to pay out and they should be reimbursed. 
That said, if Mr B wants to be paid fuel costs for his journeys, he will need to provide 
evidence of them and from which address he was travelling  his rental property or his 
parents home. The former is most likely to be evidenced by correspondence about bookings 
for viewings. The same applies to the hotel stay at the end of July 2021  Mr B can evidence 
that this was for the purpose of viewing properties, BoS should pay the cost of the hotel stay, 
although it would reasonably be able to deduct the hospitality costs from the amount paid. 
BoS could make settlement using the milage between addresses and a fuel calculator.
Again, it follows from the loss of the original property that Mr B would have needed to make 
alternative arrangements for somewhere to live and to store his possessions until he moved 
into his own property. As such, I agree that the cost of storage for Mr Bs household contents 
should be reimbursed upon provision of evidence of the cost.
Mr B has told us that his former landlord allowed him to remain in the rental property for an 
additional month and he would like to be reimbursed for this cost, as he wouldnt have paid 
it, but for the original property purchase falling through. The same applies for the time he 
spent living with relatives and the rent he paid them. 
Mr B would always have paid out the costs of accommodation for the period in question. 
However, there is a difference in what he would have got for his money during that period. 
Had the purchase gone through, he would have paid the monthly mortgage payment to BoS, which would have been made up of two parts  capital repayment (from which he would 
have benefitted long-term) and interest. However, in paying rent, Mr B didnt benefit from the 
monthly payments at all. As such, I am satisfied that Mr B effectively lost a sum equivalent to 
the capital repayment element of what would have been his mortgage payments in paying 
rent. If Mr B can evidence the date his tenancy was meant to end originally, and that he paid 
a further months rent to his landlord after the original sale fell through, then I consider that 
BoS should reimburse Mr B an amount equivalent to the capital his mortgage payment for 
that period would have included.
Mr B has said that he paid his relatives £1,000 a month for the period he stayed with them. 
Whilst relatives will sometimes charge rent in such circumstances, it very often the case they 
dont. As such, in such circumstances I would need to see very clear evidence that such 
payments were made and for what they were made, for example that there was no element 
of board included in the amount. Mr B has been given opportunities to provide evidence in 
this regard and has not done so, so I am presently not minded to make an award in this 
respect.
I now turn to the matter of removals and the associated costs. Mr B has told us that the plan 
with the original purchase was for a professional removal company to move his furniture and 
contents. This was going to cost £3,000 and he paid the movers a cash deposit of £300, 
which wasnt refunded when he cancelled the removal. Instead of incurring this cost when he 
actually moved to the area he eventually bought in, Mr B hired vans and completed the 
move himself  to the storage unit and from the storage unit to his home. This cost £750 plus 
fuel. 
While Mr B had the inconvenience of moving his contents himself and he wasnt refunded 
his deposit, the overall cost to him of moving his contents was significantly less than it would 
have been had the original house purchase had gone ahead. As such, he didnt suffer a loss 
in this respect and I dont propose to make an award. 
Mr B has said that he bought furniture and white goods for the original property, which he 
then couldnt use. The furniture is still stored in a shed at his property and the white goods 
were sold second-hand for a loss. While Mr B has provided photographs of some pieces of 
furniture that appear to be in storage, he hasnt given us evidence of the purchase of any of 
these items. For me to consider making an award in this respect I would need to be satisfied 
that the purchases were made for his proposed occupation and that the items were unable 
to be used in the property he eventually moved into. No such evidence has been provided 
and I am unable to make an award in this regard.
Mr B has also asked to be compensated for the additional mortgage payments he will have 
to make because the new property was more expensive than the original one. As our 
investigator explained to Mr B, the choice of new property was Mr Bs and we cant hold BoS 
responsible for any additional costs because he chose to buy a property with a higher value.
As our investigator also explained, Mr Bs partner was not a party to the mortgage, and so 
cant be a party to this complaint, and we cant make an award to her. As such, even if there 
was evidence of her loss of income and it was due to the failure of the original property 
purchase, I wouldnt be able to order BoS to make a payment to her.
I now turn to the matter of the compensation payment for upset and inconvenience. Due to 
the delays on BoS part it has been accepted Mr B and his partner lost the home they 
wanted and were about to move into. I accept that will have been very upsetting and 
disappointing. As a result of that, they had the concern that they would have nowhere to live 
and had to make last minute requests to their landlord to extend their stay. They then had to stay with relatives for a period, which based on Mr Bs comments, was somewhat cramped 
and not the most pleasant situation, for a period of months.
In addition, Mr B and his partner had to put in the time and effort to find a replacement 
property to buy. This process can be a stressful in the best of circumstances, but in their 
circumstances would likely to have been more stressful than usual. Added to this were the 
issues created by the mortgage being incorrectly advanced and the problems that this then 
caused Mr B in obtaining a mortgage with an alternative lender.
So I am satisfied that there is a need for a compensation payment for the upset and the 
inconvenience suffered, and that award should be more substantial than the offer BoS 
made. Deciding on such compensation awards is difficult and no amount of money can truly 
compensate for upset and inconvenience suffered. In this case I am minded to award 
£1,250.
BoS confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision. It set out a list of what it was 
anticipating paying, which wasnt correct. It also asked that Mr B be asked to provide his 
bank details so that it could pay the settlement without delay.
Mr B confirmed that he was happy with my findings. However, he said that he was slightly 
confused as he believed that hed provided details of the costs he incurred through bank 
statements and invoices. Our investigator confirmed that was not the case.
Mr B then said that he and his partner hadnt moved in with his parents during the months 
they were finding and completing on their new property. Rather his parents had moved out 
and stayed with relatives, and Mr B had rented the entire three bedroomed house from them 
at a total cost of £3,000. He said that while his parents hadnt wanted to take rent from him, 
he had insisted on paying the going rate for the three-bedroomed house and would 
evidence this with bank statements.
Mr B subsequently provided evidence of the following costs (copies of which will be provided 
to BoS):
Payments to the storage company totalling 1,055.84.
The deposit paid for the legal costs of £180.00.
Rental vehicle costs of £356.40 and £185.00. This also confirmed that Mr B moved his 
contents into storage the weekend of 4 June 2021 and to his new home the day after 
completion on that purchase.
The rental agreement for the period 9 May 2020 to 8 May 2021 and emails with the 
letting agents regarding extending the rental for an additional month. These substantiate 
that Mr B remained in the rental property for an additional month. 
Mr B also provided a further copy of the quote for legal costs for the original purchase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their response to my provisional decision. Mr B has evidenced some of 
the costs that I concluded BoS was liable and, where possible at this stage, I have confirmed 
what the exact payments should be below. However, Mr B will need to provide BoS with 
further evidence if he still wants to claim for the cost of journeys for viewings and the hotel 
stay in July 2021. Mr B also provided costs for van rental and confirmed that it took three journeys at each end 
to move his contents. The total of the van rental was a little over £500. As I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr B had confirmed that the cost of the professional removals he had 
booked (and had paid a 10% deposit for) was £3,000. As the total of the van rental, fuel and 
the lost deposit will be significantly less than that cost, I remain satisfied Mr B didnt suffer a 
loss in this regard and BoS doesnt need to reimburse him for any of these items.
I have noted Mr Bs further comments about his living arrangements following moving out of 
rental accommodation. This differs somewhat from his earlier accounts and he hasnt 
evidenced that he actually incurred a cost. As such, I remain satisfied that BoS doesnt need 
to make a payment in this regard. 
Putting things right
BoS should pay Mr B the following costs incurred due to the failed house purchase in 
May 2021:
Legal costs associated with the failed purchase. Mr B has evidenced that he paid a 
deposit of £180 and that the total cost was anticipated to be £1,069. However, as I said 
in my provisional decision, given the additional work the problems with the purchase 
caused, it is possible the actual costs differed from the quote. As such, Mr B should 
forward to BoS the final invoice for the work actually done.
The valuation fee of £200.
Storage costs of £1,055.84.
The capital element of the first payment that Mr B would have paid on the original 
mortgage had it completed in May 2021.
If Mr B provides BoS with evidence of viewings and confirmation of his address 
post-8 June 2021, it should pay reasonable fuel costs for the journeys. 
If Mr B provides BoS with evidence that the hotel visit at the end of July 2021 was for the 
purpose of viewing properties, BoS should also refund that cost, excluding the hospitality 
costs.
 £1,250 compensation for the upset and inconvenience the errors made by BoS caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Bank of Scotland plc to settle the 
complaint as detailed above in putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman