DRN-3904843
The complaint
Miss P says National Westminster Bank Plc irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Miss P took out a loan for £8,000 over 85 months from NatWest on 29 January 2018. The 
monthly repayments were £164.55 and the total repayable was £13,961.25. Miss P says the 
loan was not affordable, she did not have a steady income, and she was reliant on her 
overdraft and used payday loans. The APR offered was high showing NatWest knew she 
had bad credit. She had to take out further credit to make her repayments and her overall 
debt spiralled. This led to depression. 
Miss P asks that she be allowed to only repay the capital she borrowed and any negative 
markers be removed from her credit file.
NatWest said the loan was given after Miss P passed its affordability assessment and all 
interest was applied in line with the terms of the loan.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Ps complaint. She said NatWest ought to have carried 
out better checks, but had it done to she did not think it ought to have declined Miss Ps loan 
application. 
Unhappy with this assessment Miss P asked for an ombudsmans review. She said, in 
summary, things had got worse recently as her income had reduced and her expenses are 
higher due to the cost-of-living crisis. The high APR of 18.9% shows NatWest thought she 
had bad credit. Her existing NatWest debts were not taken into account. And she may have 
been managing all her credit well but this did not continue. More recently Miss P got in touch 
to let us know she is waiting for confirmation of a medical diagnosis for a condition that limits 
her impulse control impacting the way she manages her money, and affects her 
understanding of the longer-term impact of her financial decisions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
In considering whether a lender has acted fairly, well generally ask ourselves the following:
1. Did NatWest complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way and, if so, did it make a
fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what it knew about
Miss Ps circumstances?
2. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would NatWest still have
been fairly satisfied that Miss P would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
3. Did NatWest act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I think the starting point in assessing this complaint has to be looking at the guidelines the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out in its rules  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC). In this the FCA has said that the extent and scope of the creditworthiness
assessment needs to be proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case.
So, when Miss P applied for the finance, NatWest was required to carry out proportionate
checks to assess whether she could afford to keep up with the monthly repayments
I can see NatWest asked Miss P for some information before it approved the loan. She 
declared her monthly income was £1,500, and NatWest applied an assumed level of 
outgoings based on national averages. Using data from the credit reference agencies it took 
into account how much Miss P was currently spending on her existing credit commitments. 
Based on this information NatWest decided Miss P had enough disposable income to 
sustainably afford the loan.  
I am not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate. Miss P was looking to borrow 
over a long period of time and so NatWest needed to be sure she could make her 
repayments without suffering any adverse financial consequences for a seven-year period. It 
knew she used her overdraft facility as her current account was with NatWest so I think it 
should have looked at her actual income and outgoings. I also cannot tell from its 
submission what data it gathered from the credit reference agencies, but I would have 
expected it to review her credit history and payment status of active accounts, not just the 
amount owed each month as it has sent to us.
In order to understand what better checks would most likely have shown, I have looked at 
Miss Ps bank statements from the months prior to her loan application and her credit report. 
The statements show her income declaration was reliable  in the three months prior (Oct-
Dec 2017) her average monthly income was £1,671.92. Miss P has told us her income fell 
sharply after she took out the loan, and she was on a zero hours contract, but I dont think 
the bank could have foreseen this change of circumstances unless she disclosed it  or that 
it carried out a level of checks that I wouldnt find to be proportionate for this lending 
decision. 
Whilst I note Miss P was often overdrawn, there was a relatively high level of discretionary 
spend evident. Her fixed living costs and existing credit costs averaged around £570 a 
month over the same time period  versus the higher figure the bank had used of around 
£685. So I think had NatWest used verified actuals to assess Miss Ps disposable income it 
would still, reasonably, have lent to her. There is no evidence of payday loans as Miss P 
mentioned, I can see she had one loan from a high-cost lender, but the bank considered this 
in its assessment  as it did her other debts. In terms of Miss Ps credit history the report I 
have sight of shows she was managing her active credit well with no adverse data on the 
file. And she wasnt spending a concerning amount of her income on credit each month. 
So overall, had NatWest carried out better checks I think it would still have lent to Miss P, 
and this would have been a fair decision.
I disagree with Miss Ps point that the APR she was charged shows the bank knew she had 
bad credit. I find it is in line with the range of APRs on loans offered by high street banks, 
and as I said above there was no evidence of adverse information on Miss Ps credit file at 
this time. Miss P has told us that things have got worse for her due to the cost-of-living crisis and I am 
sorry to hear she is struggling. But her change in circumstances is not something NatWest 
could have foreseen when it gave the loan. She also flagged that even though she was 
managing her credit well when she applied, this changed. I can see her income dropped off 
 but the loan had initially allowed her to repay her overdraft, and it seems she was then out 
of the UK during February and March (as all her spend was overseas) which impacted her 
financial position. But I dont see NatWest could be expected to have anticipated this.
It follows I dont think NatWest was wrong to give Miss P this loan.
I havent seen any evidence NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.  
Miss P has more recently told us about her pending medical diagnosis and provided 
supporting documentation, saying the suspected condition impacts her financial decision 
making. But as this is not something the bank could reasonably have been aware of in 2018 
it does not change my conclusion. 
However, it is something the bank should take into account once Miss P has a confirmed 
diagnosis. She should keep the bank updated. As there is an outstanding balance on the 
loan and Miss P has said she is struggling financially NatWest should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan, remembering its obligation to treat Miss P fairly and with 
forbearance if relevant. Miss P in turn must provide the bank with any updated information it 
reasonably requires.
Miss P also referenced another case she brought to this service that was upheld, but we 
consider each case on its individual merits.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman