DRN-2331167
The complaint
Mr H complains about his life cover policy with terminal illness cover, that was cancelled by
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (the business).
He disagrees that he provided an incorrect answer and therefore misrepresented his
position.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in early October 2020 and explained why I thought this 
complaint couldnt be upheld.   
In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im not persuaded
that the business has done anything wrong in the circumstances by cancelling his policy.
In the application form Mr H answered no to the following question:
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
oAny condition affecting your kidneys, bladder or prostate, for example blood 
or protein in the urine, kidney or bladder stones?
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
Unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth
Mole or freckle thats bled or changed in appearance
A cough thats lasted for 3 weeks or more
Any other symptom that you may see a health professional about for 
the first time during the next 4 weeks.
After reviewing the available documentation, Im satisfied the application form asked clear
questions that should have been answered differently. When a consumer hasnt given the
insurer relevant information in response to a clear question, this is known as a
misrepresentation  this isnt a reflection on Mr Hs character.
In the circumstances I dont think Mr H tried to mislead anyone to gain an advantage, and it
seems the business accepts that he answered the questions to the best of his ability.
Im aware that industry guidance commonly recognises three types of misrepresentation 
deliberate/reckless, careless and innocent. An insurer can take certain action depending
on the type of misrepresentation. The business quite rightly hasnt classified this
misrepresentation because in this instance a claim wasnt made and refused.
The course which it has followed however  with respect to cancelling the policy and
refunding the premiums  would suggest the business has followed the approach for cases
of careless misrepresentation (rather than reckless misrepresentation).
Nevertheless, the business is entitled to set its own criteria for providing cover, much in the
same way that a lender would, before granting a loan. Who the business decides to provide
cover for, and under what conditions, is a reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial
judgement. Its not for me to tell it how to run its business.
In other words, the business, like any insurer, is entitled to have sight of the facts before it
decides whether (or not) to provide cover. And if its been deprived of this opportunity its
entitled to re-visit its decision and the facts upon which it initially granted cover, to decide
whether, or not, it would still insure the applicant.
It may be that the GP visit on 26 March 2018 for a general health check (and subsequent
PSA blood test on 30 April 2018) is what prompted Mr H to apply for life cover with terminal
illness. Theres certainly no suggestion that he applied for the policy because hed been
diagnosed, its not in dispute that he wasnt diagnosed until after the policy had been applied
for and approved. But from what I can see none of the questions asked Mr H if hed been
formally diagnosed.
Mr Hs diagnosis, within two months of the application, is something the business says is
unusual, which is what prompted it to make further enquiries with his GP, following his call
on 28 June 2018 about whether (or not) he was covered and if could make a claim. I note
the business says the telephone conversation put it on notice that some of Mr Hs answers
werent accurate. In the circumstances Im unable to say that the business has done
anything wrong by making further enquiries. It probably wouldve done so (if it felt the need
to clarify the circumstances surrounding his application), even if a claim was made years
later.
I note towards the end of the call, the operative asked Mr H about when this all first started/
when did he notice there was a problem, and in response Mr H said that he went in for a
general check a couple of months ago and additional tests were scheduled. He explained
that originally, he had tests for cholesterol, but also the PSA blood test which he went back
to get sorted out. Mr H also said (and I paraphrase) that the results came back high but
didnt indicate anything at the time and couldve been for a whole bunch of different reasons,
some sort of infections or whatever. He ended the question regarding when it all started by
saying overall three or four months.
The operative asked Your policy is quite new was there anything on the application that
you told us about you know the result of the PSA? Mr H said no, he took out the policy
because of his old age and to make tax efficient use of his company funds  it was an ideal
way to do this. He was just going through the regular checks and getting bits and bobs
sorted when he got the news.
I note the business says:
The call recording highlights that you had seen your GP for a PSA (prostate specific
antigen) blood test due to recent urinary symptoms and if we had known that this blood test
was high (93.95) on 1st May 2018 or even if you had told us that you had taken this test but
didn't know the results, we would have effectively postponed your application at the time..
Im aware that multiple pieces of medical evidence now available  dated May and June
2018  suggest that he had slow urinary flow and had been complaining of frequency of
micturition (emptying of the bladder) for about four to five months and more recently
nocturia (waking up in the night to urinate) over the last month.
Its not being suggested that Mr H attended his GP surgery (in the past) complaining aboutthese issues  I appreciate theres no record of this. However, its evidence that is available 
post application and approval  that shed a different light on past events, that are most likely
to do with his bladder/prostate. And certainly, issues that the business ought reasonably to
have been aware of during the application, so that it could make further enquiries before
agreeing (or not agreeing as it maintains) to provide cover.
The evidence suggests that the timing of his symptoms broadly cover a few months prior to
his application on 4 May 2018. Its therefore likely that issues surrounding Mr Hs 
waterworks were a central topic of discussion with his GP in March 2018. Whether (or not) 
this was the reason why he visited his GP, its probably what led him to have a PSA blood 
test on 30 April 2018.
I note Mr H says: My request for a PSA test was based on general guidance by the medical
profession to have a Male Health Check for males approaching and around my age. Be that
as it may, the PSA wasnt immaterial or unconnected to the issues discussed or experienced
by him in relation to his waterworks. But none of this was alluded to in the application so the
business didnt know before agreeing to provide cover.
Even if I was to believe that Mr H was given the all clear at this stage  which I dont  Im
not persuaded that his GP wouldve sent him for a PSA blood test for absolutely no reason
at all (even if Mr H wanted one) if the GP was completely satisfied that there was nothing
that needed to be investigated or bottomed out. I dont think any GP can be, even if a patient
was presenting symptoms that were normal for men in their 50s. Im conscious that prostate
cancer mainly effects men over 50 which covered Mr H.
So, Im not sure why the GP now says there was nothing worrying or suspicious having sent
Mr H for a PSA blood test. I note the business says that Mr H couldve been sent for a dip
test, but this is completely different. Nevertheless, there was still an ongoing investigation
that was yet to be concluded, even if it seemed that there was nothing to worry about or
suspicious, that the business shouldve been aware of.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Mr H couldve answered the question
(referred to above) differently, including the supplementary questions referred to by the
business in response to the investigators view. I think this wouldve prompted the business
to ask Mr H more questions and make further enquires with his GP.
In this instance the obligation was on Mr H, as the applicant, to provide the correct answers.
It isnt for the business to routinely obtain medical reports every time an application is made.
Instead, most insurers include a selection of health questions in the application and only
request further information if any of the answers warrant it. Because the above question in
the application form wasnt answered correctly, Im satisfied it was reasonable for the
business to offer Mr H cover without making further enquiries and subsequently cancel the
policy based on further information.
In other words, the business approved cover based on Mr Hs answers on 4 May 218 (and
confirmation on 8 May 2018) but wasnt aware that hed been sent for a PSA blood test and
was awaiting results.
In the circumstances, the business is entitled to say that Mr H wouldnt have been offered
the policy until the test results were available and/or it had conducted further enquiries. From
my experience of these sorts of policies, cover is very rarely (if ever) provided by an insurer
during ongoing investigations.
The business responded but had no new points to add. Mr H also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. He made numerous points 
(using three key documents comprised of his GP letter, annotations to my provisional 
decision and a summary of contentions) as to why he disagreed with my decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points: 
Hes unhappy about just how long this whole process is taking to resolve, and the 
business has failed in every aspect of its complaints handling. 
Mr H hadnt been complaining about his waterworks for months as suggested. His 
medical records will show hes had no such issues.
He was shocked to learn that the business asked for a GPs report. He wasnt 
consulted or offered the opportunity to challenge its decision to cancel his policy. 
During discussions with his GP (in September 2018) she went ahead and arranged a 
urinary tract infection (UTI) test, as a precautionary step, which returned negative.
His GP exercised her professional duty of care by arranging the blood test. This was 
no indication of any suspicion or concern which shes confirmed in her letter. 
He didnt know the result of his PSA blood test before applying for life cover, which 
only took place after hed been given cover. 
The results, sourced from a letter dated 22 May 2018, werent a cause for concern, 
and his request to have the PSA blood test was based on general medical guidance 
for men his age. 
In relation to the question about whether hed seen a doctor, nurse or other health 
professional in the last five years for any condition affecting your kidneys, bladder or 
prostate, for example blood or protein in the urine, kidney or bladder stones? he 
correctly answered no. The business has accepted his answer was accurate and 
true. 
To give context to the call of 28 June 2018, hed just been diagnosed with cancer on 
19 June 2018, and only called requesting details around the claims process, he 
wasnt making a claim. Although it was indicated that the call would be recorded it 
wasnt made clear that itd be used as a source of information regarding a claim. 
Despite what the business says, the call recording doesnt highlight a visit to the GP 
requesting a PSA blood test due to urinary problems or symptoms. Its referring to 
him reaching a time in his life when its recommended by the NHS (and other 
organisations such as Prostate Cancer UK) to have a check-up. He was looking to 
invest some of his company funds into a pension and life insurance amongst other 
benefits, which hes referred to several times in the call.
It is estimated that there are 990 new cases of prostate cancer every day in the UK 
alone, so whats so unusual about his case? He chose not to ignore health advice 
and get checked, much to his detriment it would seem given that his cover has now 
been cancelled. 
The statement from his GP appears to have been misinterpreted and suggests that 
hes been complaining about urinary problems for months. The GP only mentioned 
the time period within which the exploratory questions spanned. 
Its inaccurate to say that at the time of the application (4 May 2018) Mr H had seen a 
doctor about symptoms effecting his bladder/prostate.
The entry regarding nocturia (waking up in the night to urinate) over the last month 
was made by his GP. This has been clarified as a question relating to a time period 
and not a complaint covering that period. So, when he was asked if he gets up 
during the night to relive himself, the answer he gave was that hes a relatively light 
sleeper and if hes disturbed during the night (by car door being slammed) then, if 
required, hell go to the loo. This was all clarified by his GP.The business has accepted his clarification of what happened but still maintain its 
stance based primarily on the telephone conversation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding 
the non-uphold of this complaint, remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
Despite what Mr H says, I dont consider that any new points have been raised, other than 
those key points already made and considered by me in my provisional decision. Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant to my decision. 
Im satisfied that multiple pieces of medical evidence  dated May and June 2018  suggest 
that Mr H had slow urinary flow and had been complaining of frequency of micturition 
(emptying of the bladder) for about four to five months and more recently nocturia (waking 
up in the night to urinate) over the last month. 
Im not suggesting hed been going to his GP (over the last few months) complaining about 
this, just that he was experiencing these issues over that period. So, despite what Mr H says 
Im not suggesting that he was sent for a PSA blood test because his GP thought he had 
cancer, or that he went to his GP (in March 2018) to specifically request a PSA blood test 
because of what hed been experiencing. 
The evidence  from multiple sources post-dating his application  suggests that the timing 
of these symptoms broadly cover the period a few months prior to his application on 4 May 
2018. Its therefore likely that issues surrounding Mr Hs waterworks were a key topic of 
discussion with his GP in March 2018. Whether (or not) this was the reason why he visited 
his GP, these discussions were probably what led him to have a PSA blood test on 30 April 
2018. 
I note the business says: 
if we had known that this blood test was high (93.95) on 1st May 2018 or even if you had 
told us that you had taken this test but didn't know the results, we would have effectively 
postponed your application at the time.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H didnt know the result of his PSA blood test before applying for life 
cover, the business was still entitled to know about the blood test. Its certainly not being 
suggested that Mr H knew he had cancer when he applied for the policy  Ive made this 
point clear in my provisional decision.
 
Evidently the PSA wasnt immaterial or unconnected to the issues discussed or experienced 
by Mr H in relation to his waterworks. But none of this was alluded to in the application so 
the business didnt know before agreeing to provide cover. In other words, Mr H couldve 
answered some of the questions on the application form differently. 
There was still an ongoing investigation that was yet to be concluded, even if it seemed that 
there was nothing to worry about or suspicious (as suggested by Mr Hs GP) that the 
business shouldve been aware of but wasnt at the time it decided to provide cover. From my experience of these sorts of policies, cover is very rarely (if ever) provided by an 
insurer during ongoing investigations. So, its unlikely the business wouldve provided cover 
in the first place had it been made aware of all the circumstances as its now made clear. 
I dont disagree that the call of 28 June 2018 was regarding details around the business 
claims process. Ive made clear in my provisional decision that this case isnt about a 
refused claim.
I appreciate Mr H says he doesnt understand whats so unusual about his diagnosis given 
the number of cases diagnosed every day in the UK, but I dont think thats the point the 
business is making here. Its Mr Hs diagnosis, within two months of the application, thats 
something the business says is unusual, and is what prompted it to make further enquiries 
with his GP, following his call. Im satisfied the business is entitled to do this at that point or 
even later in the event of a claim being made. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im satisfied the 
business approved cover based on his answers on 4 May 2018 (and confirmation on 8 May 
2018) but wasnt aware that hed been sent for a PSA blood test and was awaiting results. In 
the circumstances, Im satisfied that the business is entitled to say that Mr H wouldnt have 
been offered the policy until the test results were available and/or it had conducted further 
enquiries.
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy about the length of time this matter has taken along with the 
business complaints handling. I note the business is sorry for the time its taken to deal with 
this complaint. Its offered £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr H will be very unhappy with my final decision. Whilst I appreciate his
frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong
by cancelling his policy. So, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr H what he 
wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman