DRN-3117503
The complaint
Mr H complains about an unsuitable recommendation from St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) to invest in three EIS schemes. 
What happened
In March 2018, SJP advised Mr H to invest £138,000 from funds on deposit into three EIS 
schemes. Additional advice was given about inheritance tax planning, about which no 
complaint is made. At the time, Mr Hs main objective was to gain income tax relief for the 
year 2016/2017. This was important to Mr H as he had no income in 2018 from which to 
offset tax. In order to be eligible for tax relief for the relevant year, funds needed to be 
invested before 5 April 2018. Funds were invested after this deadline, which meant Mr H 
missed out on claiming tax relief.
SJP accept that the advice to invest in the three EIS schemes was unsuitable as it was 
unlikely the funds would have been invested in time to gain tax relief, contrary to Mr Hs main 
objective. SJP upheld the complaint and made two offers to Mr H. First, they offered to take 
ownership of the EIS schemes and to compensate Mr H against their notional value using 
gross figures so as to account for the initial advice fee. In addition, SJP offered £750 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr H. Mr H indicated that he would prefer to 
retain the EIS investments, queried a refund of fees and raised further concern about the 
extent of SJPs delay in progressing his complaint. SJP then made a further offer, in which 
Mr H retained ownership. SJP offered to compensate Mr H based on the notional values of 
the investments had he invested differently, again by using a benchmark against the gross 
sums invested, without deducting the initial advice fee. SJP also offered to cover any future 
capital gains tax liability when Mr H exited the EISs, £1500 towards accountancy fees 
(subject to an itemised invoice) and £1000 in recognition of the trouble and upset Mr H had 
suffered.
Given the tight timeline for investment and that SJP was not disputing the merits, our 
investigator considered it was fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. She focused on 
how to put things right on a fair and reasonable basis. She thought the advice to invest in the 
EIS schemes should not have been provided at all, given that the investment timeline was so 
unlikely to meet the deadlines required. Accordingly, she recommended that SJP take 
ownership of the EIS schemes, compensate Mr H against the fair value and actual value 
(assumed to be zero as the funds are illiquid) against a fixed rate bond benchmark, refund 
the adviser charges on each scheme plus 8% interest, cover any accountancy fees arising 
from the tax position on the EIS schemes, undertake to cover any capital gains tax liability 
from liquidating the funds and compensate Mr H for distress and inconvenience at £1000. 
Mr H agrees with the view. SJP disagree. In particular, they say that the advice fees were 
compensated for within their offers and to refund the fees on top would amount to double 
recovery. Further, if SJP take ownership of the EISs there will be no capital gains tax liability 
on exit for Mr H and accordingly, no allowance should be made for accountancy fees. SJP 
now say £750 would be appropriate to compensate Mr H for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by SJPs shortcomings.
Our investigator clarified that the advice fees should be refunded with 8% interest and the 
net sum invested (i.e. the figure after deduction of the upfront advice fee) should be 
redressed against the fixed rate bond benchmark. She noted that Mr H had already incurred 
accountancy fees as a result of the tax certificates not being issued in the intended year and 
it would be fair and reasonable to refund these. 
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJP accept that the recommendation to invest in three EIS schemes was unsuitable for     
Mr H, as the realistic timeline for investment meant he was likely to lose out on income tax 
relief. The crux of this decision is how to put things right for Mr H on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
Its now agreed that SJP will take ownership of the three EIS schemes and will compensate 
Mr H.  Mr H held these funds on deposit prior to investing and thereafter continued to hold 
large sums on deposit, having an emergency fund of over £2,204,500. Mr H has said he 
wouldnt have made these investments if the tax relief wasnt available to him. I think it is 
likely that he would have kept these funds on as low risk an environment as possible if he 
was aware he couldnt invest to gain tax relief on his earlier income. So, I think it is fair and 
reasonable to assess compensation against a fixed rate bond comparator and this has been 
agreed by the parties. 
Given the reality of the tight timeline for investment, it is my view that the advice to invest in 
these EIS schemes should not have been given at all. Accordingly, in this particular case, I 
think it is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr H separately for the advice fees. Mr H paid 
an upfront advice fee in respect of each EIS scheme. The fees were deducted from the 
gross funds provided for investment. In my view it is fair and reasonable for SJP to refund 
the upfront advice fees with 8% interest from the date the fees were paid to date of 
settlement. SJP have raised concern that Mr H will be double compensated for the fees as 
they factored the advice fee into the benchmark comparison. But as our investigator has 
made clear, in this instance the fees should be refunded separately and only the remaining 
net sums should be benchmarked (i.e. the gross funds, less the cost of the initial advice). It 
follows that there is no double recovery on the fees.As it is now common ground that SJP will take ownership of the EISs, I agree there is 
unlikely to be any capital gains tax liability for Mr H when they are liquidated. But I think it is 
fair and reasonable for SJP to compensate Mr H for the accountancy fees hes incurred 
dealing with his income tax position surrounding these EIS schemes, subject to Mr H 
providing invoices. Mr H thought he was getting the benefit of tax relief on his earlier income 
but this was rejected by HMRC as tax certificates showed the investments were phased in 
over tax year 2018/2019, meaning he couldnt offset tax in the 2016/2017 tax year. As a 
result, Mr H incurred higher accountancy fees as his accountant had to formally explain to 
HMRC what had happened and had to resolve issues on the tax return. In my view these 
fees would not have been incurred, had the recommendation to invest not been given. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for SJP to compensate 
for any accountancy fees beyond this.
SJP dont dispute that Mr H has been put to a great deal of inconvenience and distress as a 
result of their recommendation. Mr H has explained he found the situation very stressful and 
his upset was exacerbated by SJPs significant delay in dealing with the issues he raised. 
Ive taken everything into account and Ive seen that SJP thought £1000 was fair 
compensation when Mr H detailed the impact of the long delay; I consider that £1000 is fair 
and reasonable compensation.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should SJP do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, SJP must:
Take ownership of the three EISs as agreed between the parties (as below).
Compare the performance of Mr H's net investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. 
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Repay the advisors fees in respect of each EIS together with simple interest at 8% a 
year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of the settlement. 
Pay £1,000 to Mr H for distress and inconvenience.
Refund accountancy fees incurred by Mr H in dealing with the income tax position 
relating to the three EISs (subject to invoices being provided). Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Downing 
Venturesstill existsaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Puma 
Alphastill existsaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Foresight 
Williamsstill existsaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
My understanding is that as at the end date the investment will be illiquid (meaning it could 
not be readily sold on the open market). As this is the case the actual value should be 
assumed to be zero. Mr H and SJP have agreed that SJP will take ownership of the 
investments. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, SJP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr H's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr H would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that St James' Place should pay Mr H the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including distress 
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
St James' Place should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that St James' Place pays Mr H the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind St James' 
Place. It is unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman