DRN-3258304
The complaint
Mr I complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt handle the cancellation of his motor insurance 
policy with them properly.
What happened
Mr I took out a motor insurance policy in April 2021. A change was made to the policy, 
meaning an additional premium of £100.03 became due on 10 October 2021. Mr I then 
attempted to cancel the policy online, but he says the system prevented him from doing this. 
He then called up Aviva, and said he was told they couldnt cancel his policy for him, as he 
could only do it online. Mr I expected a refund of £682.89, but was initially told he was only 
getting a refund of £100.03. He contacted Aviva to discuss this, and then saw Aviva were 
attempting to take £100.03  rather than refund it. Mr I said he had further issues when 
talking to Aviva in getting his refund, so he complained.
Aviva replied to Mr Is complaint on 25 October 2021. They said the payment that became 
due of £100.03 was originally attempted to be taken from one card, but this payment failed. 
The payment was then made on another card on 10 October 2020. Aviva said this payment 
wasnt authorised until 20 October 2021  and in-between time Mr I had cancelled his policy 
and theyd already refunded the payment of £100.03 back to the second card. Aviva said 
there was a problem with their system which prevented the remaining refund of £582.86  
but theyd sorted that now with their finance department and the payment would show on 
1 November 2021 in Mr Is second card. 
Aviva completely agreed with Mr I when he said he shouldnt have had to wait this long for 
his refund and shouldnt have had to chase the matter up. They said sorry for this and paid 
£75 compensation. 
After Avivas initial reply, Mr I got back in touch, had some further conversations, and they 
increased their offer of compensation to £100. Mr I initially accepted this, and Aviva paid it. 
But, a few days later Mr I said Aviva were still trying to take £100.03 from him. After 
investigating, Aviva said they couldnt see this on their systems, and needed more 
information from him.
Mr I asked us to look into things on 2 November 2021  saying Aviva had hinted this was his 
fault for using different cards to make payments. On 10 November 2021 Mr I got back in 
touch, saying Aviva had taken another £100.03 out of his account and are saying they know 
nothing about it despite him providing screenshots.
Aviva said they understood Mr Is payment set up is essentially he uses a card provider who 
are connected to all of his accounts  and he chooses which account and card money is 
taken from through an app. Aviva said Mr I was saying money was being taken from an 
account directly, but they only had the card providers details. So, they couldnt see how they 
were doing this  and still couldnt see on their systems they had taken another £100.03 
from Mr I as hed said.
Our Investigator looked into things and found Mr I hadnt provided enough information 
currently to prove Aviva had taken the payment from him as hed said.
Mr I didnt accept this, and said he wasnt prepared to provide any further information to 
Aviva as he felt hed already provided enough. Because Mr I didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Avivas initial reply to Mr Is complaint, and follow up to that, theyve 
investigated matters thoroughly and accepted they were in the wrong. Ive noted Mr Is 
comments about them hinting this was his fault for using two different cards. It seems using 
two different cards has potentially caused some difficulties, but Aviva have said this isnt 
Mr Is fault its their system issues which caused the initial problems.
Im aware Mr I since received the full refund he was due and was paid £100 compensation 
which he accepted. So, I dont think I need to comment on those points further.
Instead Ill focus on the remaining issue in dispute  which is Mr I saying Aviva are still 
attempting, and have, taken another payment of £100.03 from him.
Aviva have provided their internal notes to show conversations theyve had with their finance 
department when investigating this. Theyve said they cant see them having taken £100.03.
I realise with the previous issues Mr I had why he might be somewhat reluctant to accept 
that  given it was system issues that caused him problems in the first place. But, in the first 
investigation theyve clearly accepted they got it wrong, so Id likely expect them to accept it 
if they got it wrong again  if they can see this.
But they cant see theyve asked Mr I for this payment of £100.03 as hes said. Instead, 
theyve asked Mr I for evidence. Hes provided some transaction information, which does 
suggest another payment for this amount was applied for and / or taken out on 
2 November 2021. This is after Aviva had resolved Mr Is complaint so shouldnt have been 
applied for or taken out. But Aviva couldnt see on their systems theyd asked for this money. 
Because they cant see the payment coming out from their systems, and the card provider 
appears to delay asking for payments sometimes, theyve said they cant be sure they have 
taken a payment they shouldnt have. So, they asked Mr I for a bank statement showing the 
payments coming out.
In response to that, Mr I contacted us and asked us to look into things. After our Investigator 
completed her investigations she explained to Mr I in a fair amount of detail what would be 
needed for Mr I to show us, and Aviva, the payment had been taken more than once  
specifically that he could download a statement from his app to show the payment being 
taken. Ive heard Mr I wasnt prepared to provide anything further as he felt hed already 
provided enough and was frustrated at how long this has been going on.
While I understand Mr Is reluctance, I do also understand Avivas. They cant trace asking 
for a payment, so require information from Mr I to find it. And as for the transaction 
information Mr I has already given, this doesnt prove any payment was taken. I can see why 
Mr I says it does, but Ive looked at it carefully and Im not satisfied it proves it as I cant 
clearly see it being debited from an account. So, I think Aviva have taken a reasonable 
position by asking for bank statements to show the payment coming out when it shouldnt 
have. Taking everything into account Ive not been given enough information to prove Aviva have 
definitely taken any further payments theyre not entitled to  and I think their position in 
asking for more information is reasonable. So, I wont be telling Aviva to refund Mr I any 
further money. If Mr I later on decides to provide this evidence to Aviva, Id expect them to 
consider it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman