DRN-3343384
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ald Automotive Limited (AA) is reporting incorrect information on her 
credit file.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
AA. In early 2019 her personal circumstances changed, and she was unable to make 
payments under the agreement. AA advised Mrs H that she could return the car and end the 
agreement early. Mrs H had concerns that this would affect her credit file, but AA assured 
her that her credit file wouldnt be affected. Mrs H returned the car and agreed to make 
repayments of £10 per month to pay off the balance. When Mrs H checked her credit file in 
August 2019, she noticed that AA had reported adverse information. She complained, but 
AA said the balance was being correctly reported. After this service had investigated, AA 
changed its position and said it accepted that it had been incorrectly reporting on Mrs Hs 
credit file. It offered £500 compensation for its error.  Mrs H wasnt happy with the offer. She 
said shed suffered financial losses as a result of the incorrect reporting.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. I looked at the impact of AAs error and took 
into account what Mrs H had said about being unable to obtain a mortgage to purchase a 
property. I said there wasnt enough evidence to show that the reason for the mortgage 
being declined was solely due to incorrect reporting by AA.
I explained that I was persuaded that the incorrect reporting had impacted on Mrs Hs health 
and that I didnt think the offer of £500 was fair.  I said the offer should be increased to 
£1000.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision and said she was still in dispute with AA about 
the balance due under the agreement. She said that although she knew there would be an 
amount to pay when she returned the car early, she hadnt realised how much this would be.  
She said she wanted the £1000 paid directly to her. She also wanted to know whether her 
credit file would be updated, and the adverse information removed. 
Mrs H also explained that she was experiencing difficulties in getting a response from AA 
having completed an income and expenditure form in October 2021. She said that no further 
payments of £10 per month had been collected but she was receiving debt collection letters.
AA responded to my provisional decision and asked whether Mrs H wanted her 
compensation paid directly to her or removed from the arrears on her account.
Putting things right
Ive taken into account what both parties have said. I remain of the view that £1000 is a fair 
and reasonable amount for AA to pay to Mrs H as compensation for the incorrect reporting 
on her credit file.
In relation to Mrs Hs credit file, I think its fair to ask AA to remove the late payment markers 
and/or any default which were recorded as a result of Mrs Hs arrangement to pay £10 per 
month. However, its clear from what both parties have said that theres an outstanding 
balance under the agreement, so its fair that AA report the balance, even if this balance is 
disputed by Mrs H.
Finally, I think AA should make contact with Mrs H to set up a new payment arrangement for 
the outstanding balance, based on what is affordable having taken her income and 
expenditure into account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Ald Automotive Limited must pay 
compensation of £1000 directly to Mrs H for the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect 
reporting on her credit file. It must also contact Mrs H to set up an affordable payment 
arrangement for the outstanding balance, taking into account her income and expenditure. 
Ald Automotive Limited mist remove any late payment markers and/or defaults from Mrs Hs 
credit file relating to the previous payment arrangement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman