DRN-4146754
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Collingwood Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited (CISL). She 
isnt happy that she was charged a fee to cancel her insurance policy when she was 
expecting a refund.
Miss Bs representative has advanced the complaint on her behalf but for ease Ive just 
referred to Miss B in this decision.
What happened
Miss B took out a motor insurance policy through her broker CISL. The policy cancelled once 
she passed her test and she is unhappy that it charged a £40 cancellation fee. But CISL said 
the fee was due and the cost of cancellation was outlined in the policy documentation when 
she took the policy out. 
When Miss B complained to this Service our investigator looked into things for her but didnt 
uphold her complaint. Although he understood why Miss B didnt feel she should pay for the 
cancellation of the policy he didnt think it was unfair for the broker to charge the cancellation 
fee as outlined in the policy documentation.
As Miss B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Miss B doesnt want to pay a cancellation fee, especially as it was 
always likely that this would be due under the policy if she passed her test. But there is still a 
cost to the broker in cancelling the policy and doing the administrative work involved in this 
process. This is clearly outlined in the policy documentation (alongside other fees charged) 
that was provided to Miss B before the policy was taken out so I cant say that CISL have 
acted unfairly here. And I would expect Miss B to make herself aware of how the policy 
worked and the costs involved when she took the policy out.
I know Miss B has also raised a complaint against her insurer about the costing of the policy 
generally which I know has impacted things here, but that complaint has been considered 
separately. So, I wont comment on this here.
While the matter has been with me for consideration I have asked CISL to explain the costs 
involved in both setting up and cancelling the policy. It has provided details on the costs it 
incurs in both these scenarios. And while I cant divulge the detail to Miss B here, as this is 
commercially sensitive information, Im satisfied that it acted reasonably, and it incurs these 
costs in dealing with this kind of policy.   
Given all of this I think Collingwood has acted fairly in charging a cancelation fee as this was 
clearly outlined within the policy documentation and Miss B couldve chosen to cancel the 
policy in the cooling off period if she wasnt happy about the charges involved. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied there would have been a cost for the broker in cancelling the policy and the cost it 
has charged is in line with the industry generally so I cant say it has acted unfairly here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman