DRN-4410842
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined a claim 
she made on her life insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B has a term assurance policy which includes cover for terminal illness. The policy was 
taken out in 2016 during a phone call. Mrs B had previously held a different policy with Legal 
and General. 
She claimed on her policy in 2023 - the claim was declined, and the policy was cancelled. 
Legal and General said shed answered the questions about her medical history incorrectly. 
And it considered this to be reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to 
decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint because he didnt think Mrs B had accurately answered the medical 
questions. 
Mrs B didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she says she 
did disclose her medical conditions. Shes also concerned that Legal and General no longer 
have a copy of the call recordings. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she answered questions about her medical history. Ive looked at 
the copy of the application form which records the questions Legal and General say were 
asked and the answers recorded. 
The relevant questions are:
(1) When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about 
a medical condition, please tell us anyway. 
Apart from anything youve already told us about, during the last two years have you: 
Been prescribed any treatment for a continuous period of 2 weeks or 
more?
Been referred to, or been under the care of, a hospital specialist?
Had a blood test, biopsy, scan or any form of heart investigations? 
(2) During the last 2 years have you seen a health professional about:
 
Anxiety, depression or stress? 
The answer to all these questions is recorded as no.
Ive looked at the application document which was completed in January 2016 and records 
the answers Mrs B gave during the application process. Legal and General say, in summary, 
that Mrs B failed to disclose various appointments and treatment for Behcets disease, 
Fibromyalgia, blood tests and depression during the two years before the policy was taken 
out. I think the questions asked were clear. And, having looked at Mrs Bs medical record, I 
think she ought to have disclosed this information and answered yes to the questions Ive 
outlined above. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about having had a previous policy with Legal and 
General where she had disclosed some of this medical information. However, shed held that 
policy for many years. And I think the application process made it clear that she was being 
asked about all conditions, as opposed to new conditions since shed last applied for a 
policy. She was also sent a form which asked her to check the details shed provided which 
gave her a further opportunity to share information about her health. Mrs B confirmed the 
information was correct. 
Legal and General no longer have a copy of the relevant call. I can understand why Mrs B is 
disappointed by this as Legal and General did have it available when the claim was 
assessed. However, Im satisfied that I can reach a fair and reasonable outcome. Ive looked 
at the notes of the call which are referred to in the claims file and the final response letter. 
The notes show that a representative at Legal and General listened to the call and 
summarised what was said. They confirm that all the application questions were asked and 
Mrs B didnt disclose the information. The notes say: 
Went through full application, Qs read word for word and time given to answer. No 
mention of Behcets, Fibromyalgia, Anxiety & depression. 
The note also confirms that the questions Ive set out above were asked and answered no. 
Thats also consistent with the application document. Im persuaded, on balance, that the 
call notes and application document reflect the questions asked and the answers given. 
Although Mrs B recalls feeling pressured thats not reflected in the note of the conversation. 
And, she also had the opportunity to check the answers shed given or cancel the policy in the cooling off period if she felt the policy wasnt right for her. So, this point hasnt changed 
my thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint.  
Legal and General have provided evidence that if Mrs B had disclosed this information, 
theyd have charged her a much higher premium. This means Im satisfied that Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Legal and General has said Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because 
they thought the facts showed that Mrs B must have known the answers she gave were 
wrong and it would have been clear that the information would have been relevant to them. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Shed previously disclosed details of her 
Behcets to Legal and General in a previous application. In a call to Legal and General when 
they queried why shed not disclosed her medical history she said, in summary, that she 
recalled the importance of disclosing it from when shed discussed life insurance with an 
independent financial advisor in 2006, which is when the first policy was taken out. She also 
had the opportunity to check and correct information when she was provided with a Check 
Your Details form. Mrs B had also had a number of appointments, tests and treatments 
within the relevant time period, and which were shortly before the application was made. So, 
I think they are likely to have been reasonably fresh in her memory at the time. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless Ive looked at the 
actions Legal and General can take in accordance with CIDRA. They can avoid the policy 
and keep the premiums. If theres a claim they dont have to pay this as effectively the policy 
never existed. In this case Legal and General have agreed to refund the premiums. So, I 
think the action theyve taken is fair and reasonable. It also goes beyond what is required by 
CIDRA. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman