DRN-4340484
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage. Lloyds declined the 
claim for the external damage, but agreed to pay for the internal damage. It later reviewed 
the claim again and also declined the internal damage. Lloyds said all the damage was due 
to pre-existing issues.
During the claim, Mr B and Mrs B complained to Lloyds. For the first complaint, Lloyds 
offered £200 compensation as it said Mr B and Mrs B had been provided with conflicting 
information about some wardrobes. Following another complaint, Lloyds offered Mr B and 
Mrs B a further £250 compensation because its contractor didnt provide it with a sufficient 
report when they visited the property. When Mr B and Mrs B complained again, Lloyds said it 
should have declined the full claim earlier. It also accepted that there had been issues with 
its contractor and that damage had been caused to Mr B and Mrs Bs home when tests were 
carried out. It offered £750 compensation and £1,162.72 so Mr B and Mrs B could repair the 
marks and holes made to their property.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in 
part. She said it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim and that £1,200 was fair 
compensation for the issues with the claim. However, she said Lloyds should pay the 
settlement for the marks and holes made to the property at the cost to Mr B and Mrs B, not 
to Lloyds.
As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree this was a fair outcome, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the 
claim. These showed windspeeds of up to 40mph, which wouldnt be considered storm 
strength. I also looked at the volume of rain around that time and saw significant rainfall that 
would normally be considered a wet storm. I also think a large volume of rain could cause 
water damage. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. Ive first looked 
at the external damage. When Lloyds contractor visited, it didnt find evidence of storm 
damage. It said the damage was the result of wear and tear. 
This was later reviewed again by Lloyds, which was a more detailed assessment. This found 
issues with the concrete gutters, which were no longer watertight. Based on online images, 
slipped tiles and missing pointing on the roof were also identified that pre-dated the incident. 
Issues were also found with the flat roof, which was assessed to be approaching the end of 
its natural lifespan. There was also evidence the roof seemed to have been jet washed at 
some stage, which would have allowed water to enter the property. Overall, it was assessed 
that there was defective roof construction, workmanship issues and general issues with wear 
and tear to the roof. 
Having looked at Lloyds assessments, I think it was reasonable for it to rely on these to 
decline the claim. Im aware Mr B has disagreed with some of the assessment, including that 
he has said the roof wasnt pressure-washed with a high-powered water jet, but instead 
cleaned with low powered water and a brush. He also said plastic guttering was added as a 
temporary measure after Lloyds declined the claim and that a flat roof could ripple due to the 
suns heat, but it wasnt damaged in any way. However, this doesnt change my view that 
Lloyds decision was reasonable.
Ive also considered the internal damage. Im aware Lloyds originally agreed to cover this 
damage and it was only later, when work was due to start, that Lloyds decided the damage 
wasnt covered. When Lloyds reassessed the damage, it found that the internal damage was 
in line with the pre-existing external damage. It didnt find any damage that it assessed was 
caused by a one-off storm event. Having looked at the assessment and the photos, I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the internal damage. I also note that the Accidental 
Damage part of the policy didnt cover damage caused by water entering the home. So, 
there was also no cover under that part of the policy.
Mr B and Mrs B were also concerned by Lloyds customer service. This included issues with 
a contractor and it initially accepting the claim for the internal damage and then later 
declining it. I can understand this would have caused Mr B and Mrs B distress, frustration 
and upset. They also had a loss of expectation about their claim. Across the three 
complaints, Lloyds offered a total of £1,200 compensation, which I think was fair to reflect 
the impact on Mr B and Mrs B. I dont require Lloyds to pay any further compensation.
While Lloyds was still intending to deal with the internal damage, it put marks and holes in 
the ceiling and walls when it was carrying out some testing. Lloyds agreed to pay a cash 
settlement of £1,162.72 to enable Mr B and Mrs B to have this damage repaired. I think it 
was fair for Lloyds to offer to pay to repair this damage. However, the amount it offered was 
based on the cost to Lloyds to carry out the work, but its own contractors werent going to do 
the work. So, I think Lloyds should have offered the settlement on the basis of the cost to Mr 
B and Mrs B. As a result, I think Lloyds should pay Mr B and Mrs B the reasonable costs of 
them having this damage repaired, subject to them providing Lloyds with suitable evidence 
of the costs they need to pay. Lloyds doesnt need to pay for any other damage to Mr B and 
Mrs Bs home, including the external damage and the damage as the result of water entering 
the property.Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr B and Mrs B the reasonable costs of repairing the marks and holes 
caused by Lloyds, subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing Lloyds with appropriate evidence of 
the cost to them of having these repairs carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr B and Mrs B the reasonable 
costs of repairing the marks and holes caused by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, 
subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing appropriate evidence of the cost to them of having these 
repairs carried out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman