DRN-3737498
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money she lost, which she believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Miss H was looking to have some work completed on her garden, after a rogue trader had 
left it in a dangerous state. Miss H explained that it was important for her to have a safe 
space and functioning garden, so that her son could do physio exercises to help with a 
medical condition. Miss H contacted a gardener, who had previously carried out some work 
for her grandmother. He visited Miss H and gave her an estimate for the work. Miss H 
agreed for the gardener to do the work and made the following payments to him;
14 September 2020 £7,500.00
27 October 2020 £3,750.00
2 December 2020 £7,180.00
26 April 2021 £3,144.25
However, Miss H believes shes been scammed as shes said the gardener never carried out 
any of the work that was agreed in the contract. Shes explained that the gardener gave a 
number of excuses for not turning up to start the work, and the gardener then sadly passed 
away. 
Miss H believed she had been the victim of a scam, so she raised the matter with Bank of 
Scotland. Bank of Scotland considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM code), of which it is a signatory, and it sent its final response to Miss H on 
24 February 2022, not upholding her complaint. In summary, it said it was very sorry Miss H 
had experienced these difficulties when looking to upgrade her garden for her son. But it 
considered this was a civil dispute between Miss H and the gardener, so this wasnt covered 
by the CRM code.
It said this because Miss H had told it that the gardener had done a good job for her 
grandmother (Miss H had previously sent payments, on her grandmothers behalf, to the 
gardener from her Bank of Scotland account). Alongside this Miss H had said that she knew 
other friends whod had jobs done with no complaints. Miss H also told Bank of Scotland that 
shed carried out other reviews of the gardener and hadnt seen any negative reviews.
Bank of Scotland did offer Miss H £50 in recognition of the service it provided. It 
acknowledged that, in a previous communication with Miss H, it had referred to the CRM 
Code and to the matter being a scam.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Miss H brought her complaint to our service and 
one of our investigators looked into things, but our investigator didnt uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. In summary he said he had a great deal of sympathy for Miss H and for the 
circumstances of her complaint, but he also considered this was a civil dispute.
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, she maintained that shed been 
the victim of a scam. She said the gardener had constantly given excuses as to why he 
couldnt turn up and that the CRM code quotes that banks should take extra steps to protect 
customers who may be vulnerable. Miss H said that it should have been recognised that 
shed been a victim of  a scam before and that her individual circumstances made her 
vulnerable.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Bank of Scotlands actions, I dont uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Bank of Scotland should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. And I can see that this has been a 
very difficult time for her. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in 
fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Bank of Scotland has signed up to 
and was in force at the time Miss H made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Miss H made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Miss H strongly disagrees. She feels 
the gardener has scammed her.In order to conclude that the payments Miss H made were part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the gardener she was using was not 
legitimate and he had set out to defraud her. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I 
can safely conclude that.
I have not seen sufficient evidence to establish that the gardener set out with the intent to 
defraud Miss H. I say this because;
- I understand that Miss H has told this service that the gardener hadnt finished or 
started the work hed been paid for by her grandmother. But that does contradict 
what Miss H told Bank of Scotland when she reported the scam to it. Miss H 
confirmed to Bank of Scotland the gardener had carried out work for her grandmother 
to a good standard and that her grandmother was happy with the work. Alongside 
this Miss H said that a number of friends had also had little jobs carried out with no 
complaints.
- Miss H also told Bank of Scotland that she carried out research, before making any 
payments, and found no negative reviews. Ive also seen that historic, positive, 
reviews for the gardening company date back for a number of years. I dont think this 
is typical for someone that is intending to defraud people, where more typically I 
would expect to see some negative reviews and for the company not to be trading for 
so long. 
- Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank. The evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank, 
regarding the beneficiary account, indicates that the gardener had successfully 
carried out similar activities for other customers, without any concerns being raised. 
Which Im persuaded is supported by the evidence Miss H saw, and told Bank of 
Scotland about, when she carried out her own research, where shes said she hadnt 
seen any negative reviews.
- Until they sadly passed away, the gardener was still contactable after Miss H had 
made the payments. And from the exchange of messages that Miss H has shared 
with us (between her and the gardener), it appears that there were times where the 
gardener did turn up at Miss Hs property to work. This is not typically the case with 
fraudsters, who more often than not are not able to be contacted after they have 
taken a victims money. Im also mindful that the gardener had given Miss H his 
genuine contact details (address / telephone number) when he provided the 
estimate. This again is not usual behaviour for somebody who is setting out with an 
intent to defraud, more typically with scams such as these, the scammers provide 
false details, so as they cannot be traced after defrauding their victims.
On balance, the situation doesnt display the hallmarks most typically associated with this 
type of scam. So I dont think it was unfair for Bank of Scotland to take the view that the 
situation formed part of a civil dispute. 
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, the 
gardener set out with the intent to defraud Miss H. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask Bank of Scotland to refund the money Miss H has lost, 
as I dont think Bank of Scotland treated Miss H unfairly when it said the payments she made 
were not covered by the CRM Code.Miss H has said that she was vulnerable at the time of the scam. Shes explained the 
difficulties that shes faced in her personal life and I dont doubt how challenging a time    
Miss H has been through in recent years. While I dont underestimate what Miss H has told 
us, I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel Bank 
of Scotland to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not say that 
it should. And for reasons explained, as I cant safely say that a scam has taken place, it 
means that the CRM code doesnt apply to the payments Miss H made, so Bank of Scotland 
isnt obligated to make a refund due to any potential vulnerabilities.
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss H. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine the difficult times she has faced in recent months 
and years. But, for the reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that Bank of Scotland 
should fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the loss Miss H has sadly suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint 
against Bank of Scotland Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman