DRN-3767309
The complaint
Miss S is complaining about Experian Limited because she says Experian didnt update her 
credit score when it should have done. 
What happened
In February 2022 Miss S became aware that a credit card with Company H had been 
fraudulently arranged in her name and used. 
Miss S queried what happened with Company H who agreed that Miss S had been a victim 
of fraud. Company H cleared the balance and arranged for Miss Ss credit file to be updated. 
Miss S noticed around this time that the score provided through her Experian Account had 
dropped from excellent to fair. Initially Miss S put this down to the fraud incident with 
Company H, and therefore expected the score to increase after Company H corrected things 
for her. However, Miss S said her credit score with Experian didnt improve after Company H 
completed their update. 
Miss S has said these events caused the overdraft with her bank to be reduced and says 
she was prevented from seeking out 0% balance transfer deals because of these issues. 
Miss S complained to Experian who explained to her that the credit score with her Experian 
Account was a guideline for her, and not something that lenders would use when 
considering whether to approve her for credit. Experian noted that it appeared Miss Ss 
address history for her Experian Account was not up to date and suggested that she update 
this so her Experian Account would link to the full details of her credit file. Experian provided 
relevant details and links for Miss S to do this, as well as how to obtain a statutory credit 
report which Miss S said she was struggling to obtain. Experian noted there were no known 
system problems in trying to obtain a statutory credit report. 
As Miss S maintained that Experian had caused her credit score to remain low she brought 
her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and concluded Miss Ss complaint should not be upheld. 
They explained while the Experian Account provided a credit score, this wasnt what lenders 
relied on to make their lending decisions, rather lenders would use Miss Ss credit file to do 
this as part of their assessment. The investigator said that a full address history would form 
part of the information used to inform Experians credit score. 
The investigator also explained Experian was only required to report the information 
provided to them and so they had no responsibility over the information itself, so any 
concerns over the reduction to Miss Ss overdraft would need to be directed to her bank. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators outcome as she didnt believe Experian had properly 
explained why her score had dropped and remained fair. 
Given Miss Ss additional comments, the investigator approached Experian for further 
clarification. Experian explained they could only access information on Miss Ss Experian 
Account that she herself had accessed, so they were only able to confirm that Miss Ss 
Experian credit score had been fair since 2 March 2022, and there were no records 
available to show that it had previously been good or excellent. Experian was also able to 
confirm that the record for the Company H credit card was updated on 24 February 2022 to 
a nil balance and the account closed. 
Our investigator shared the additional information with Miss S and maintained that they did 
not think Experian had done anything wrong in the circumstances. The investigator 
reiterated that it appeared Miss Ss address history for her Experian Account was not up to 
date. And even though Miss S disputed that this is what would have affected the credit 
score, the investigator explained that Experians experience of this not being up to date 
could impact the scoring. 
Miss S later contacted our investigator to say that her credit score had gone up to excellent, 
and said that as nothing had changed with her circumstances she assumed it was because 
Experian had realised their error. While Miss S acknowledged that this was a positive 
update, she still wished for an ombudsman to review the case as she felt she had been 
unable to take advantage of balance transfers and good deals for credit, not to mention the 
hassle of having had to make a complaint. 
Our investigator updated Experian with Miss Ss most recent comments and Experian 
confirmed Miss Ss credit score had recently increased as she had now provided her current 
address on her Experian Account. 
This was explained to Miss S, but she did not believe the only factor in her credit score 
dropping was to do with her address given she had not changed the address on her account 
for years. And she maintained this had prevented her from applying for credit until recently. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve the matter, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Before I set out my reasons for not upholding Miss Ss complaint, I think it would be 
helpful to provide some background about Credit Reference Agencies (CRA), and Experian 
in particular. 
As one of the three main CRA, Experians role is to hold a range of information (mostly for 
lenders) in relation to how an individual has maintained their credit and service/ utility 
accounts. This information is gathered together from what external companies report to 
Experian, and public sources of information such as the electoral roll and court judgements. 
Experian is not responsible for all the information on Miss Ss credit file, rather it is the 
lenders and telecoms and utility companies that pass the information to the CRA who have 
ultimate responsibility for the information appearing on a credit file. 
Lenders might access this information to help decide if theyre prepared to agree lending for 
an individual and individuals can also access their own credit file to see what information is 
held about them. Lenders will also have their own credit scoring system and will take into 
account a range of factors, one of which will be their own credit score, when deciding 
whether to lend to someone. Experian offers customers different services including being able to obtain a statutory credit 
report, setting up an Experian Account (a free service), or taking out a CreditExpert service 
or Identity Plus service (which both incur a monthly fee). 
Experians records show that Miss S set up an Experian Account for herself. This type of 
account provides services such as updating the Experian Credit Score every 30 days; 
comparing product offers and eligibility for such offers; and opportunities to see if a credit 
score can be increased. With this account Experians role is as a credit broker, and so this 
service should be considered separate to the provision of a statutory credit report and the 
information being shared with companies. 
The information Miss S accesses about her credit file via the Experian Account is linked to 
the information shes provided to set up the account  which is why it is important to keep 
this updated. Its also important to note that companies requesting information about Miss S 
would not use information Miss S has given to set up the Experian Account, so this would 
have no bearing on any searches being carried out by lenders.
  
To apply for the Experian Account Miss S would have needed to provide an address history 
to Experian and under the terms of the account it was her responsibility to keep her 
information accurate and up to date  not Experians. 
It therefore follows that the information showing on Miss Ss credit file (which lenders would 
see) had nothing to do with Miss Ss Experian Account, the address history held there, or the 
credit score that the Experian Account then produced. The Experian Account credit score 
was a guide for Miss S only, and it was based on the credit information obtained through the 
Experian Account profile Miss S set up and was responsible for keeping up to date. 
When a lender carries out a credit search they will search using the information the applicant 
has provided them with, such as any addresses, name and date of birth. The credit file 
information returned is linked to these details. The Experian Account is similar in that the 
account profile information (set up with the address history, name, date of birth etc) is used 
to find information relating to these details on the credit file. Therefore, if Miss Ss Experian 
Account profile is not up to date, then it will not find all the credit information, services, utility, 
or public information about her  all of which contribute to her credit standing, or to put it 
another way her Experian Account credit score. 
In view of the above, I think its fair to say Miss Ss Experian Account credit score had no 
impact on Miss Ss ability to obtain credit. And I think her Experian Account credit score was 
more likely than not affected by her address history not being kept up to date. 
Company H updated Miss Ss credit file on 24 February 2022, and Experians final response 
letter to Miss S on 11 May 2022 explained to Miss S how the Experian Account worked and 
what information lenders would access. Experian also let Miss S know what she needed to 
do to update her Experian Account profile at that time. It seems Miss S didnt update the 
address history on her Experian Account profile until September 2022, at which point it 
appears her Experian Account credit score improved as it was now possible for her Experian 
Account to link in with all Miss Ss relevant and current information on her credit file. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Experian have done anything wrong here. Any 
information they were reporting on Miss Ss credit file was information provided to them by 
third parties. If Miss S is unhappy her overdraft was reduced, then that is something shed 
need to discuss separately with her bank. And it appears the details of the account with 
Company H were updated late in February 2022 after Miss S made Company H aware of 
what had happened. So I dont think Experian were reporting anything incorrectly here. Im aware Miss S believes Experian are at fault because she hadnt changed her address for 
a long time and had experienced no issues, so she cannot believe the change in the score 
can only be a coincidence with what happened with Company H. Ive considered Miss Ss 
submissions. I agree in so far as I think its likely the matter with Company H affected the 
Experian Account credit score because I can see that Miss Ss address profile for her 
Experian Account includes the same address to which the Company H credit was linked to, 
and the Experian Account credit score increased slightly in June 2022 (so before any update 
to Miss Ss address history). But as it appears Miss Ss address history was not up to date 
and it appears accepted the Experian Account credit score changed after it was updated, on 
balance, I think it was more likely than not that the address history not being properly up to 
date also impacted the Experian Account credit score. 
Ive noted Experian explained to Miss S that lenders would not use the Experian Account 
credit score to form part of their decision making, so I dont think Miss S was prevented from 
applying for credit at that time if she wished to. And it seems there were no known system 
issues preventing Miss S from obtaining a statutory credit report at that time, so I cant 
reasonably say there was an error here on Experians part. Miss S was also made aware of 
what she needed to do to update her address history on her Experian Account profile, but 
did not do this until much later, after which her Experian Account credit score improved. 
Im aware Miss S is also seeking compensation for having to bring this complaint. I can see 
our investigator has already explained that while it is no doubt upsetting and time-consuming 
having to deal with a complaint, its generally accepted there is an inconvenience in bringing 
a complaint, so this is not something I think it would be fair to make an award for in this case. 
I understand Miss S will be disappointed with my findings and I realise the importance a 
credit score can have for someone. However, for the reasons above, Ive not seen enough to 
say that Experian have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject 
my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman