DRN-4254109
The complaint
Ms J complains that, after shed requested a full withdrawal of funds held in a pension with 
ReAssure Ltd, theyd taken too long to make a payment to her.  
What happened
Ms J had a personal pension with ReAssure. In May 2021, she approached them to 
withdraw the full fund value  then approximately £5,000. 
There followed a series of exchanges  Ms J was asked to provide specific documents as 
proof of identity, address and to verify the account she wanted the funds to be paid into. She 
was now resident abroad, and this required extra verification. The funds were eventually 
paid to Ms J in July 2022. Unhappy with the delay, Ms J complained to ReAssure. They paid 
her £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced seeking to 
arrange the payment. But Ms J didnt think this fairly compensated her for the delays, so she 
brought her complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators, having analysed the chronology of events in detail, concluded that 
ReAssure were at fault for delays equating to 35 days  and that Ms J should have received 
the payment 35 days earlier than she did. So he asked ReAssure to calculate how much 
theyd have paid Ms J had they paid her on time, and set out how they should reimburse any 
such sum (assuming there was found to be a loss) to Ms J. He also said ReAssure should 
pay Ms J additional compensation of £400 for the distress theyd caused her.
ReAssure didnt agree with our investigator. They felt Ms J was aware of the need to supply 
properly verified proof of ID documents since October 2021, and it wasnt until July 2022 
these were provided. They also felt theyd responded to Ms Js various enquiries in a timely 
manner. They asked for an Ombudsman to review this complaint, so its been passed to me 
to consider afresh, and issue a Decision.
Having considered the evidence, I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator 
and issued a Provisional Decision (PD) setting out my thoughts and proposed redress. My 
PD said as follows: 
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
First of all, Id like to extend my condolences to Ms J for the loss of her husband. And Im 
pleased to see that Ms J has now received her pension lump sum.
The questions for me to consider here are whether ReAssure caused delays in the payment 
of that sum to Ms J, and if they did, to decide if and/or how she should be compensated. And 
having reviewed the timeline of events in detail, I think she did experience an unnecessary 
delay in receiving her lump sum  although my reasons for this differ slightly from those of 
our Investigator. Ill explain.
There were multiple exchanges between the parties here during the period in question, but I 
dont think its necessary to detail or comment on all of these. Instead, Ill focus on what I 
think are the key ones in the context of resolving this complaint. 
Ms J first approached ReAssure in May 2021 to ask about taking the remaining benefits in 
her plan. ReAssure responded five days later, sending her a letter containing details of her 
plan value. It appears this wasnt received by Ms J, but Ive no reason to doubt it was sent. I 
can see ReAssure also appear to have sent a further letter to Ms J on 10 June 2021 
enclosing policy value details. They sent a further letter to Ms B on 27 September 2021, 
referring to the previous letters, and advising her current plan value. And, following a short 
exchange at the beginning on October 2021, ReAssure sent Ms J the forms to complete for 
her to take a lump sum and close her policy on 8 October 2021. These forms clearly state 
what documents Ms J must provide as proof of ID and current address (as she resided 
abroad at the time) and made clear how they need to be properly certified  specifying which 
persons or occupations are suitable.
I think this is important because its the first time Ms J knows what she has to do, and 
provide, to allow her to take her lump sum benefits. There is an onus on her from this point 
on to now provide this information.
However, when Ms J returns her completed application form the following month, she 
doesnt include the correctly certified documents. ReAssure tried to contact her three days 
after receiving her form to alert her to the incorrect supporting documents, without success.  
Ms J calls ReAssure for an update on 1 December 2021, and the issue regarding the 
documentation is explained. Im satisfied Ms J would have been aware shed sent incorrect 
supporting documents at this point. I dont think ReAssure were responsible for any delays 
up to this point. 
A few weeks later, on 20 December 2021, Ms J again approached ReAssure to ask 
questions about submitting her application. It appears she asked for an overseas bank 
mandate to be sent to her. She makes a further call to ReAssure in January 2022, asking 
questions about how to get the money paid to her, in her UK bank account. She then emails 
ReAssure on 5 January 2022, again asking the same question, but also alerting ReAssure to 
the fact her husband had sadly died that week. 
Over the following two weeks, further emails were exchanged, and on 13 January 2022 
ReAssure wrote to Ms J asking her to complete a Direct Debit mandate, also explaining that 
international payments must be received in Pounds Sterling. 
It was, or should reasonably have been, clear to ReAssure that Ms J wanted to close her 
pension and take the remaining funds as a lump sum. At no point (as far as I can see) had 
she given any indication that she wanted to re-start making payments into it. And she had, 
by this time, alerted ReAssure on at least two occasions that her husband had just died. I 
think it should have been clear that she was in a vulnerable position at this time. 
Notwithstanding, I cant see that ReAssure questioned or sought to clarify the unusual (in the 
circumstances) request Ms J made to be sent a DD form, nor acknowledge her vulnerability 
at that time. Its not altogether clear from the evidence Ive seen whether this form was 
completed and returned by Ms J (and if not, why not), but I can see that ReAssure phoned 
Ms J on 31 January 2022, during which the need for correctly verified documents was 
reiterated. So, I think the DD matter was resolved by this point. 
But, I think this period  between Ms Js request for a DD mandate on 20 December 2021 
and the eventual conversation with ReAssure on 31 January 2022  is one where confusing delays occurred that could or should have been avoided had ReAssure reacted to Ms Js 
request and personal circumstances more appropriately. Allowing for a reasonable time for 
ReAssure to realise the DD request seemed out of place, and factoring in periods of 
inactivity during the Christmas and New Year break, I think there was a four-week period 
where confusion existed for Ms J which ReAssure could have avoided. 
Despite further exchanges between Ms J and ReAssure, correct documents were still not 
supplied. And there appears confusion regarding which account Ms J wanted the funds paid 
into. These exchanges continued until 11 March 2022, when ReAssure emailed an auto-
response following receipt of a further update request email from Ms J, asking for the funds 
urgently to help pay with funeral expenses. The auto response says theyll look to respond 
within ten working days. I cant see there was any such response. The evidence Ive seen 
suggests ReAssure didnt respond until 5 May 2022, when they phoned Ms J to advise they 
were still awaiting receipt of the correct documents. Leaving aside the fact, for now, Ms J still 
hadnt provided the correct supporting documents (as clearly set out in the 8 October 2021 
letter), there appears to be a period of inactivity here  about six weeks, allowing for the time 
a reasonable response should have taken - that was avoidable had ReAssure responded 
reasonably promptly to Ms Js 11 March 2022 email. 
Exchanges between the parties continued. On 17 June 2022, it was first mentioned (as far 
as I can see) by ReAssure that the address on a bank statement provided by Ms J (for her 
bank account where she was living abroad) raised concerns. It had a PO Box address, 
whereas ReAssures compliance required a full postal address. Ms B explained to ReAssure 
this was the norm in the part of the world she was now living in, as the general postal service 
in that country was unreliable. After many exchanges, ReAssure advised on 30 June theyd 
depart from their usual requirements in this case and accept that document. 
Whilst its clear ReAssure eventually took proactive steps to assist Ms J on this particular 
point, the existence of non-UK ID documents containing PO Box addresses would have 
been evident many months before (when Ms J sent incorrectly validated documents to 
ReAssure). I think, in the circumstances here, its reasonable to conclude this issue should 
have been picked up and addressed earlier by ReAssure  which had it done would have 
likely avoided this two-week exchange and delay. 
Ms J eventually provided properly certified documents on 4 July 2022 (re-sent on 7 July 
2022 as initial email was too feint). And ReAssure made payment to Ms J nine working days 
after the documents had been received. I appreciate ReAssure, or any business, must 
undertake internal compliance checks to ensure encashing a pension is done properly, and 
this can take up to ten working days usually. But here, our Investigator suggested it could 
have been done quicker. On balance, I agree with him. 
ReAssure had already calculated the amount it needed to pay Ms J, based on the value of 
the policy when she first returned her application form. And it was aware of Ms Js pressing 
need for the funds, following the recent death of her husband. Once it had the necessary 
approved supporting documents, I think reassure could have  and in fairness to Ms J 
should have  processed the payment within four working days. So, I think there was a 
further week delay in Ms J receiving her funds. 
How much of the delay in making payment was caused by ReAssure
I think its clear the significant proportion of the delay in processing Ms Js application was 
attributable to her not providing the correct ID documents. But I think there were clear 
instances where Ms Js journey to providing these could have been shortened, had 
ReAssure acted differently. Ive commented on these above. I have no way of knowing for certain how much quicker the application would have been 
processed had these delays been avoided. But I do think its more likely than not that, had 
these delays not occurred, the relevant periods of inactivity wouldnt have existed, and it 
logically follows progress would have been quicker, and the appropriate documents would 
have ended up being provided quicker. Put simply, I think Ms J would most likely have been 
paid quicker than she was had they not occurred. 
Ive identified four separate periods where I think there were delays caused by ReAssure  
the four week DD period, the six week period between March and May 2022 where there 
was no communication, the two week (approximately) PO Box address issue, and one 
week delay in processing the payment. Taken together, this amounts to 13 weeks delay, 
meaning I think, all other things being equal, Ms J would likely have received her lump sum 
13 weeks before she did  on approximately 22 April 2022.
Putting things right
Our Investigator proposed redress calculations assuming the final amount paid to Ms J was 
only calculated at the time the payment was processed. We now know this not to be the 
case. The value of her policy was calculated on the day ReAssure received her signed 
application form  because that was when shed confirmed her intention to cancel her policy 
and be paid the lump sum. Regardless that shed not provided the correct supporting 
documents, I think this is a fair date to base the calculations on. 
But, as Ive said, I think Ms J should have been paid that sum earlier. So, as Ms J was 
deprived of those funds for the 13-week period Ive set out, I think she should be 
compensated for the loss of use of those funds for that period. And in line with how this 
service assesses awards for loss of use, I think ReAssure should pay Ms J 8% simple 
interest on the amount paid, £5,453.41 (less any tax as applicable), calculated from 22 April 
2022 until the date it was paid to her. 
Distress and inconvenience
ReAssure have already paid Ms J £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by their 
delays up until January 2022. However, there were further delays after this, and the 
exchanges Ive seen make clear that Ms J was distressed by the amount of time it was 
taking to finalise the payment (some of which were attributable to her). And that distress was 
compounded by the upset of her husbands death, which is something I dont think ReAssure 
appropriately acknowledged or took account of in their dealings with her. 
Placing a value on distress isnt an exact science. And the purpose of an award of this type 
isnt designed to punish a business. But I think the total compensation suggested by our 
Investigator - £600 (including the amount already paid)  is a fair amount in the 
circumstances of this case and is in line with our award guidelines published on our website. 
So, Ill be asking ReAssure to pay Ms J an extra £400 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has acknowledged the PD, and confirmed she has nothing further to add. ReAssure 
have also responded. Theyve agreed with my recommendation to pay Ms J an additional £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. But theyve disagreed with some of the 
dates Ive used in calculating the delay period. 
Theyve provided an alternative timeline, suggesting they should have paid Ms J her pension 
funds on 30 May 2022. Id said 22 April 2022 was the relevant date  so five weeks and one 
day earlier than ReAssure are suggesting.
ReAssures response focusses on the period after 28 February 2022, the date they advised 
Ms J of the requirements needed. Theyve made no mention of the four-week delay period 
Ive highlighted above  between 20 December 2021 and 31 January 2022. Accordingly, in 
the absence of any further information or comment for me to consider in relation to this  
period, I will continue to use it in my calculations here. That has the effect of reducing the 
gap between ReAssures calculations and my calculations to one week and one day. 
ReAssure have also suggested they would have taken ten working days to make the 
payment after receipt of Ms Js passport. I, on the other hand, suggested they should have 
made payment within four working days. Whilst I appreciate industry statements of good 
practice have allowed ten working days for payments to be processed once all documents 
are available, that doesnt mean it must apply to every case. 
Here, I remain of the opinion that ReAssure should have been able to undertake the transfer 
much quicker than they did. ReAssure were aware of the relatively modest amount that 
needed to be transferred. They were aware of Ms Js personal circumstances  her recent 
bereavement which caused significant financial pressures for her. Those facts, when also 
viewed against the contents of the 2016 consultation paper carried out by The Transfers and 
Re-Registration Industry Group (suggesting a 48-hour standard for completing each step of 
a transfer), satisfies me that my initial calculation  the transfer should have been done 
within four working days  was fair. That further reduces the gap between my calculations 
and ReAssures calculations to two working days. 
Ive carefully considered the remainder of ReAssures points and reassessed them against 
the chronology of events here. However, having done so, and taking into account the points 
Ive made above, Im satisfied that Ms J should have received her pension by 22 April 2022.  
My final decision
I uphold Ms Js complaint against ReAssure Ltd, and require them to do the following:
- Pay Ms J interest, at 8% simple, on the amount of £5,453.41  calculated from 22 
April 2022 until the date the interest amount is paid.
- If ReAssure Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also 
give Ms J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
- Pay Ms J a further £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman