DRN-3473324
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a car she took from ALD Automotive Limited under a two-year hire 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs P entered into a hire agreement with ALD for a new, but pre-registered, 
car. The agreement recorded that Mrs P was to make an initial payment of nearly £4,200, 
followed by monthly payments of £465.97.
Mrs P took delivery of the car on 2 November 2021.
Soon after she took delivery, Mrs P says she noticed that one of the tyres needed inflating, 
followed by a tyre pressure warning light. She took the car to a garage to be checked, but no 
fault was found with the tyre. She was advised to monitor the position. The problem 
persisted, so she took the car to an approved garage for a further check. That check 
revealed a hairline crack in the cars alloy wheel, which was causing the tyre to deflate.
Mrs P contacted ALD to complain about the damage. She also had the wheel replaced at a 
cost of just over £700.
ALD did not accept responsibility. It said that the car had been inspected before delivery and 
no fault had been found. In addition, it said that, if the car had been supplied with a cracked 
wheel, the cars tyre pressure management system would have detected a problem within 
two or three days. It thought it more likely that the crack had been the result of impact 
damage after delivery.
Mrs P did not accept ALDs response to the complaint and referred the case to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and indicated that he thought the car had 
not been of satisfactory quality at delivery. He recommended that ALD reimburse the cost of 
the replacement wheel, refund some of the hire payments and pay Mrs P a further £100.
ALD did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision. I thought it was more likely that 
the wheel had been damaged after the car had been delivered to Mrs P than that it was 
damaged or defective at delivery. I did not therefore recommend that ALD do anything more.
Mrs P responded to say that she had not driven the car for a few days after she took 
delivery. She noticed then that there appeared to be an issue with the tyre. She said she 
thought the warning sign came up about a week after that. She said too that the 
manufacturer had not identified any impact damage to the wheel.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps car was supplied with delivery mileage only, so it should have been near-perfect at 
delivery. A reasonable person would not expect a new car to have a cracked wheel or for a 
tyre to lose pressure. The main issue I have considered is therefore whether the wheel was 
damaged at delivery or whether it was damaged later. 
The car was inspected before being delivered to Mrs P. That inspection did not identify any 
faults. Since, however, the crack in the wheel was hidden, that is not surprising and does 
not, in my view, show that the wheel was undamaged.
The car had been first registered in June 2021. It was delivered to Mrs P in early November. 
Had the wheel been cracked in that time, I believe the tyre would have deflated. That would 
have been visible, even without any dashboard warning. I note as well that ALD says that 
the manufacturer did not identify any manufacturing defects when it inspected the damaged 
wheel. 
On balance, therefore, I remain of the view that the crack in the wheel was not present when 
Mrs P took delivery of the car and that it is more likely that it was damaged later.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require ALD Automotive Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman