DRN-3504818
The complaint
Miss L says Lloyds Bank PLC processed a payment for £679.20 - without her authorisation  
that it had previously declined - for an item she had already paid for using a different 
payment method.
What happened
Lloyds declined a transaction Miss L tried to make on 14 November 2021. The following day 
it processed the transaction, two days later the transaction was refunded by the merchant. 
Miss L says this caused her a lot of stress and inconvenience and Lloyds were very 
unhelpful when she phoned them. 
Lloyds explained that Miss L would need to contact the merchant to find out why it took the 
payment on 15 November 2021. It started a disputed transaction claim for Miss L, but the 
merchant refunded the payment whilst this was progressing. It paid Miss L £20 
compensation for the inconvenience she suffered because of long call waiting times and 
poor service on its mobile messaging service. 
Our investigator said that whilst it wasnt right that an unauthorised payment was taken from 
Miss Ls account the bank correctly started the disputed transaction process  during which 
time the funds were refunded to her. It seems the merchant had taken the payment in error, 
and Lloyds would not have known Miss L had made payment using a different method. She 
didnt find She thought the £20 compensation was suitable given the level of inconvenience 
Miss L suffered, and the speed of resolution.
Miss L was unhappy with this assessment. She said Lloyds had told her the payment was 
declined and then allowed the merchant to take the money the following day  the bank is 
clearly at fault.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that the transaction with the statement date of 16 November 2021 should 
not have been processed. It seems possible though that, contrary to the merchants email, it 
did not cancel the pending authorisation request in time. However, when Miss L contacted 
the bank to explain that she had not authorised this transaction and she had already paid by 
other means I think Lloyds took the correct steps. It set up a disputed transaction claim and 
explained what would happen next. It appears the merchant in the meantime discovered it 
ought not to have re-presented the request for payment as it refunded the money on 17 
November 2021. 
When we consider complaints we look at whether a business made an error, what impact 
that had and what it has done to put it right. We do not have the powers to penalise 
businesses for errors made. In this case, I think Lloyds ought to have contacted Miss L when 
the request for payment was re-presented, as it had before, to make sure she was aware of 
the payment. But it did the right thing by then opening a disputed transaction claim when she 
called in. And it has such processes to resolve issues like this. As the issue self-resolved in 
effect because the merchant processed a refund Lloyds did not need to progress this. 
Miss L has described the stress and inconvenience she suffered saying she had to borrow 
money, was unable to pay her bills or do anything, and take time out of work to call the bank. 
I do understand that the payment being taken will have been upsetting for Miss L. But I have 
seen no evidence of any related financial loss that Lloyds needs to make good. And I think 
Lloyds has compensated Miss L fairly for the time she had to spend trying to resolve the 
issue. I have considered how long Miss L was without her money in reaching this conclusion.
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman