DRN-3344410
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as and 
referred to in this decision as Countingup) wont refund £4,200 it lost in a scam.
Mr M, who is a director of P, brings the complaint on Ps behalf. 
What happened
Mr M says that on 14 August 2020 he made a payment of £4,200 on behalf of P to a 
company Ill refer to as W. The payment represented half the cost of material P was buying 
which was not at the warehouse on the agreed pick-up date. Mr M says he later found out 
that W is a fake business and is a clone of a genuine company with a similar name. Before 
making the payment, he called the number of the genuine company to check that everything 
was in order but believes its phone lines had been hacked.
Mr M reported his loss to Countingup on 19 August 2020. He is unhappy that Countingup 
sent him numerous emails asking for information and evidence in relation to the scam before 
contacting the receiving bank. He believes this means the scammer had the opportunity to 
remove funds that could have been returned to him. Mr M also feels it would have been a lot 
easier if he could have discussed his scam claim with Countingup instead of having to 
respond to emails. This also made the process slower. Hed like Countingup to refund the 
funds he lost. 
Countingup say it doesnt contact receiving banks until its satisfied that there has been a 
scam rather than a dispute between merchants. It contacted the bank that received Ps 
funds on 28 August 2020. The first response it received on 15 September 2020 said that 
partial funds remained so Countingup asked for further information and provided an 
indemnity. The receiving bank later said no funds remained and didnt respond to a request 
for clarification about the conflicting information it had provided.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that the payment Mr M made on behalf of P wouldnt have been suspicious to Countingup 
because payments of this amount from a business account arent unusual. It was also 
harder for Countingup to understand what normal account activity looked like as the account 
hadnt been open long and there was minimal activity on it. The investigator also felt that 
Countingup took reasonable steps in respect of its enquiries with the merchant and 
suggested that if Mr M was unhappy with the receiving bank, he could raise a complaint with 
it.
Mr M didnt agree with what the investigator said and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. In summary, he said:
- Countingup has a duty of care towards him.
- If Countingup had an emergency contact number (rather than only communicating by 
email) his complaint could have been resolved much more easily.
- He had to report the scam by email and Countingup continued to ask questions for 
five days. This allowed the scammer the opportunity to withdraw Ps funds. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint this service can consider as the final response letter issued by 
Countingup didnt include the correct referral rights to this service which set out that a 
complaint must be brought within six months of the final response letter. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this 
case as PrePay Technologies Limited hasnt signed up to it. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Countingup should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Countingup acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr M (on behalf of P) when he made the payment request, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. I have considered the position carefully.
Did Countingup act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Countingup should 
have been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first 
considered whether the payment request Mr M made was unusual or uncharacteristic. 
Having considered Ps account activity before the scam I agree with the investigator that the 
scam payment wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic and so I wouldnt expect Countingup to 
flag it or ask Mr M any questions about it. 
I say this because the amount lost in the scam isnt significant or unusual  particularly for a 
business account, which tends to involve higher value transactions than a personal account. 
Ive also noted that Ps account was opened at the end of July 2020 and the only 
transactions before the scam payment were three credits on 13 August 2020 which totalled 
£4,200. The scam payment was made the following day. So there were no previous 
transactions to allow Countingup to understand what normal account activity looked like. Overall, I consider Countingup acted reasonably in processing the payment without any 
interaction with Mr M on behalf of P. 
Recovery of funds
Mr M reported the scam to Countingup on 19 August 2020 but it wasnt until 28 August that 
Countingup got in touch with the bank that received Ps funds. Mr M thinks that the delay 
enabled the scammer(s) to remove the funds from the receiving account. This service has 
contacted the bank that received Ps funds to find out when the funds were removed and 
established that all Ps funds were removed by 17 August 2020. As this was before Mr M 
reported the scam to Countingup, its clear that if Countinguop had contacted the receiving 
bank sooner it wouldnt have made a difference.  
Service
Mr M has referred to the fact he was unable to call Countingup and so had to rely on email to 
report his fraud claim and answer all Countingups queries by this means, causing delay. 
This service cant interfere with how a service provider chooses to conduct its business. And 
at the time Mr M raised his fraud claim Countingup didnt advertise or provide telephone 
facilities as it was unable to comply with legal requirements around data protection. So I 
cant reasonably criticise Countingup for responding to Mr Ms fraud claim by email. Having 
reviewed the emails I also consider that Countingup responded promptly.
In any event, whilst it might have been easier to clarify some of the scam details by 
telephone, Mr M would still have needed to send emails to provide evidence (for example 
screenshots of his communications with the scammer). 
Overall
Im sorry Mr M has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Countingup responsible for Ps loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman