DRN-4186268
The complaint
The estate of Mrs A is unhappy with the settlement American International Group UK Limited 
made when she claimed on her Disabling Injuries Protection Plan.
The estate is represented by Mr S.    
What happened
Mrs A had an accident and claimed on her Disabling Injuries Protection Plan. She sadly died 
in 2016. Mrs As estate have continued the claim following her death. 
AIG accepted there was a valid claim under the policy and made a settlement on the basis 
that Mrs A had lost the use of both legs but that only 20% of the loss of use was caused by 
the accident. Mr S didnt think that was a fair settlement. He complained to AIG but they 
maintained the settlement was fair. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought AIG 
should settle the claim and pay the claim on the basis that Mrs A had lost 50% of the use of 
both legs and pay 8% simple interest.
AIG didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said the medical 
evidence showed the accident had caused 50% of Mrs As overall disability and that there 
was 20% total loss of overall bodily function due to the physical injuries sustained in the 
accident. Mr S accepted the investigators findings. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Item 5 on the policy schedule sets out a benefit for loss of use of both legs. During the 
lifetime of the policy it was amended. The information Mrs A was provided with said: 
We have also included a proportional benefit, which means that if you suffer an injury 
which results in partial permanent disability, a proportional payment will be calculated 
depending upon the amount of loss you have suffered. Previously benefits were only 
paid for total loss.  
Its accepted there is a valid claim under the policy. The policy pays a benefit for loss of use 
of both legs. The settlement calculation included an additional amount which was a no 
claims bonus and a reduction in benefit due to Mrs As age. Those points arent in dispute. 
The issue for me to decide is whether AIG settled the claim fairly by concluding Mrs A had 
20% loss of use due to the accident. I dont think that was a fair settlement in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill explain. 
There are two relevant medical reports which were used to determine the proportion of loss. 
The author of the medical report was a consultant trauma and orthopaedic surgeon. In his 
first report he said: 
I fully accept that her ability to mobilise is multifactorial but there is no test or 
literature to guide me but in my opinion the injury has caused a decrease in her 
mobility. In my opinion I would estimate that 50% of her overall disability was due to 
the accidentThere is no doubt that eventually she would have reached the same 
level of post-accident disability but it is again very difficult to estimate when this 
would be. I would estimate this to be between 2 and 3 years.
In his second report, which dealt with questions from AIG, he acknowledged that the 
questions posed to him were difficult to decide with any degree of certainty. The report was 
obtained several years after Mrs As death. The report says: 
As per my recent letter in my opinion I would estimate that 50% of her overall 
disability was due to the accident. Obviously, the loss of overall bodily function due to 
the physical injuries would have been significantly less as she maintained her mental 
capacity, her upper limb function as well as her bladder and bowel function. In my 
opinion I would estimate the total loss of overall bodily function due to physical 
injuries sustained in the accident was 20%.
Mrs A sustained a fracture of both her pubic rami and this would cause pain on 
weight bearing in both of her legs. This in my opinion has resulted in the loss of 
function in both her legs. 
The consultant acknowledged the difficulties in giving a certain answer. And, whilst he 
referred to 20% loss of overall bodily function, he also stated that Mrs A had lost function in 
both her legs. I also think those comments need to be read alongside the information in the 
first report and the other evidence available. 
AIG also had a letter from Mrs As care home which commented on her mobility. It confirmed 
she was unable to walk more than a few steps unaided and used a wheelchair. The letter 
said Mrs As mobility didnt improve from the date that she moved into the home, which was 
shortly after her accident, but did deteriorate further in the last few weeks of her life. 
Bearing in mind the overall medical evidence I think a settlement of 50% more fairly reflects 
the proportion of loss described. I dont think a settlement of 20% reflects the wider medical 
information that was available to AIG at the time. 
The percentage of 20% related to Mrs As overall bodily function and took into account her 
mental health as well as her upper limb, bladder and bowel function. AIG settled the claim on 
the basis of that there was loss of use of both legs. So, I think it would have been fairer, in 
the circumstances of this case, to apply the higher percentage. 
I think that 50% would have more fairly reflected the medical evidence that was available, 
and acknowledged the difficulties highlighted in reaching a conclusion about Mrs As 
functionality several years after the claim and her death. There was a specific benefit for loss 
of use of legs and that was the basis of AIGs settlement. I think its unreasonable to base 
the calculation on 20% total loss of overall bodily function where the expert evidence has 
been able to attribute 50% of her overall disability to the accident and bearing in mind the 
evidence about Mrs As mobility. Putting things right
AIG needs to put things right by settling the claim by paying the estate of Mrs A a total of 
50% of the benefit. They also need to pay the estate of Mrs A 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date the claim was originally settled.
If AIG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell the estate of Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint and direct American International Group UK Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman