DRN-3469131
The complaint
Mr M complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has unfairly 
declined a claim under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M owns a property that has been rented to Person A and their family for several 
years. 
In November 2020 Mr M took out a DAS policy. 
Around August 2021 Mr M sought to claim on the DAS policy for repossession and 
rent arrears. He said he was looking to evict Person A as the property was no longer 
suitable for them due to the number of people in their household. 
DAS declined the claim for repossession, saying Mr M was aware the property was 
unsuitable for Person A from at least April 2018 onwards as he had noted Person A 
was living with four young children at that time. So, the repossession action he was 
seeking to take under the policy was not unforeseen and was known to him prior to 
taking out the policy. 
DAS also declined the claim for rent arrears, saying these had begun to accrue since 
May 2017  prior to inception of the policy.
Mr M brought this complaint to this Service, specifying he only wanted to complain 
about the repossession aspect and not the rent arrears. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the policy 
excluded pre-existing events or issues, and it was reasonable for Mr M to have 
known the property was unsuitable for Person A and couldve led to legal action prior 
to taking out the LEI cover.
Mr M disagreed, saying it wasnt reasonable to consider the circumstances to be 
existing. And that while he couldve taken steps towards repossession in 2018, he felt 
this was the wrong decision.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns whether the event that Mr M seeks to claim for, 
repossession cover, has been reasonably considered as pre-existing by DAS.
So, Ive looked at Mr Ms policy. This says it covers events where:
the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of 
insurance
Date of occurrence is defined in the policy as:
The date of the event which leads to a claim. If there is more than one event 
arising at different times from the same originating cause, then the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events.
Mr M states the reason he sought repossession was due to the home becoming 
unsuitable for Person A. And hes stated that he was aware of this from April 2018 
but chose not to act at that time for reasons of his own.
So, it doesnt appear in dispute that the facts about Person A  and the suitability of 
their home  were known to Mr M prior to the policy being put in place. And therefore, 
I think its reasonable for DAS to consider April 2018 to be the first date of occurrence 
in these circumstances as the suitability of the property was in question from that 
time. It follows therefore that the date of occurrence here took place outside of the 
period of insurance.
For these reasons, Im satisfied DAS has fairly declined this claim and Im not 
directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman