DRN-3804321
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove a fraud marker at CIFAS, and this 
led to him missing out on a job opportunity.
What happened
Mr A explains that he had applied for a job with a higher salary and an initial payment of 
£10,000. A third party agency carried out screening for the new employer and found the 
CIFAS marker. He says that Barclays had agreed to remove that a year earlier. And so, he 
didnt get offered the new role.
Barclays accepted that it had made a mistake. It had told Mr A on 26 April 2021 that it had 
removed a CIFAS marker. But it hadnt done this until Mr A had complained again. This was 
removed on 2 June 2022. It offered to pay Mr A £800 in compensation and said it was sorry 
we havent been able to make an offer youre happy with.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had offered to. She said that 
the original marker was applied in 2016 and this came to Mr As notice in 2021 when he was 
refused a bank account. Barclays had agreed to remove the marker and had paid £300 then. 
This complaint was about it not removing the marker as it had said it would do.
She said that she hadnt seen clear information that Mr A would have been offered the new 
role had the marker not been in place. And that the job was actually his as there were other 
applicants. So, she thought that the compensation was more than fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He referred to emails hed received about the screening in April 2022. In 
particular on 19 April 2022 hed been told his file had been moved to final checks and that 
when these were complete it would be sent over to the employer and the agency involved 
would help arrange the initial payment of £10,000. The person hed been dealing with was 
no longer at the agency, but hed been told that if put forward for screening hed have the 
role. Hes also been in contact with an employment lawyer and been told the same 
information given how expensive the screening was. Mr A set out that hed been given some 
time to resolve this and when he first contacted Barclays and went to a branch it had wrongly 
closed this complaint saying that it was already resolved. Barclays actions had a significant 
effect and he would otherwise now be at a different stage in his career. He also referred to a 
community association losing out on funding due to the marker about him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to set out that we provide informal dispute resolution and we arent a court. If Mr A 
doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
Its not in dispute that the CIFAS marker ought to have been removed. Ive noted the email 
dated 5 December 2021 about funding for a community association that Mr A was a trustee 
of. And that his name was associated with a fraud check. I first need to say that this is a 
separate organisation to Mr A, and I wouldnt be able to consider any impact for that here. 
But, I also dont know when this was brought to his attention because it may have 
reasonably alerted him to an issue with his record: especially given what hed discovered 
earlier that year.
In this complaint Ive looked at his evidence. Im afraid I cant place significant weight on 
what he says he was told and by a third party to his potential employer. I note his points 
about the stage hed got to in the application process. And that a CIFAS marker would 
clearly be identified. But as our adjudicator has said I cant see evidence to confirm he would 
have the role otherwise, even though I dont doubt thats his genuine belief.
I accept his testimony about raising this with Barclays twice before it was resolved and from 
April onwards. And again, as he says the marker wasnt removed until 2 June 2022 and he 
has an email dated 4 May 2022 from the agency saying he will no longer be considered for 
the role and that it was now working with another candidate. So, I dont doubt the frustration 
and inconvenience hes been caused.
Barclays has made an offer to settle the complaint. And I think that this is reasonable in light 
of my findings here and having taken into account our published guidelines. Barclays offer 
isnt less than I might otherwise awarded. So, I know Mr A will be disappointed when I say 
that I wont be requiring it to do more than this.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay Mr A £800 to settle this complaint which I think is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr A 
£800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman