DRN-2185712
The complaint
Mr B has complained that, when a recommendation was made for cash held within a joint 
Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to be invested, his own share of the SIPP cash 
wasnt. Mr B has said that, as a result, hes missed out on fund growth.
Mr B has also complained that he hasnt received the ongoing service from the business 
that he has been paying for.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 August 2020, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I thought it should be upheld. The content of that decision, which begins 
with the background to the case, is set out below:
Mr B owned a business with his father and sister, and the business premises was held 
within a joint Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), which N. J. Leeson & Co. set up for 
the three of them, with a 50% stake owned by his father and 25% each owned by Mr B and 
his sister.
In August 2016, as a reasonable amount of cash had built up within the SIPP, N. J. 
Leeson & Co. recommended that an investment be made in the MetLife Trustee 
Retirement Portfolio.
N. J. Leeson & Co. requested an illustration from MetLife on the basis of Mr B, his sister 
and his father all being lives assured, for an investment amount of either £40,000 or 
£42,000. An illustration was provided, which detailed Mr Bs father as the sole life assured 
and for an investment amount of £42,000.
The investment of £42,000 was made from the SIPP funds, from which an initial adviser 
charge of 3% was taken. The nature of the investment was that capital was guaranteed 
and that any growth was locked in on a daily basis. At the end of the ten year period, the 
capital with growth would be returned to the investor.
Whilst ownership of the funds remained split between the three parties, N. J. Leeson & 
Co. said in a letter dated 5 August 2016 to Mr Bs father that the SIPP rules required the 
investment to be held in just one name  and that Mr Bs father was the most appropriate 
life assured for the investment.
N. J. Leeson & Co. told Mr Bs father that he could take an income from the investment at
any time, based on the highest locked in value, but he was advised not to as his income
needs were being met from the rest of the SIPP, and N. J. Leeson & Co. said it 
was focussing on capital growth with the investment.
The application was submitted on 25 August 2016 to the SIPP trustees, who then sought 
clarification that the investment was to be held in Mr Bs fathers sole name. N. J. Leeson 
& Co. confirmed that it was and the money was invested on 11 October 2016. As at 
November 2019, the investment of £42,000 had a cash in value of £43,632.
In 2018, Mr B and his sister queried as to why the investment was only held in their 
fathers name, and that they had thought that they would all be investing in the plan.
In response, N. J. Leeson & Co. said that there must have been a misunderstanding as to 
how the investment would be arranged and that it had always been intended to be in Mr 
Bs fathers sole name. It said that it would, however, be prepared to arrange further 
investments for the SIPP money allotted to Mr and B and his sister and that it would do so 
at a reduced adviser fee.
However, agreement on the matter couldnt be reached and, ultimately, complaints were 
raised by all three parties  two of which, from Mr Bs father and his sister, are being 
dealt with separately. This complaint deals with the issues raised specifically by Mr B, 
which as set out above, includes concerns relating to the investment only being in his 
fathers name and the services received for the fees which have been paid.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He 
said the following in summary:
He noted that N. J. Leeson & Co. had said that it provided advice to the officers of 
the company and that no personal information had been disclosed by the 
individual members within the SIPP. It had further said that the ongoing fees were 
in respect of services provided to the company.
The investigator therefore considered whether personal advice had been given to 
Mr B. In doing so, he noted that the letter issued in August 2016 was addressed to 
Mr Bs father rather than the company, and that it included commentary as to why 
the investment was suitable for Mr Bs father.
The letter clearly implied that the investment would be split between the three 
members of the joint SIPP and that it would help increase the value of Mr Bs 
pension fund.
There had been telephone calls with Mr Bs sister and all three individuals in 
their capacity as trustees had agreed to invest £42,000.
The original illustration request was also for all three to be lives assured.
The investigator therefore considered that Mr B would reasonably have thought 
that his earmarked funds were being invested. And if it was the case that the 
investment needed to be in a sole name, N. J. Leeson & Co. hadnt explained 
why three individual investments couldnt have been made.
Although no recommendation report was provided to Mr B, on balance the 
investigator thought that verbal advice was provided to him. And that this 
constituted personal financial planning rather than advice to the company.
The investigator noted that, in late 2018, N. J. Leeson & Co. recommended a
£20,000 investment for Mr B, which he considered was a personal 
recommendation rather that to the company  and would have been based on his 
personal circumstances and objectives.
N. J. Leeson & Co. had said that no fact finds were completed, but the 
investigator said that a review of Mr Bs circumstances should have taken place 
before advice was given.
Regulations also required a business to establish what services would be 
provided for the fees charged. But although the investigator had asked N. J. 
Leeson & Co. to provide a copy of the client agreement to determine this, none 
had been forthcoming - and so hed inferred that there wasnt one.The investigator cited a performance review as an example of an ongoing service 
which might attract a fee, but he didnt the think the available evidence supported 
the position that this had happened here.
Although the investigator had seen documentation relating to rent from the 
company to the SIPP, he wasnt persuaded that Mr B had been receiving a 
service in respect of his share of the SIPP. And he reiterated that the advice was 
personal to Mr B rather than to the company.
As an ongoing review of his share of the SIPP couldnt have properly taken 
place without establishing Mr Bs personal details, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Mr B had been receiving the service he was paying for.
It was difficult, in the absence of a fact find and risk profile, to determine what 
ought to have occurred, but the investigator had spoken to Mr B. Hed explained 
that he expected to retire around state pension age and that, other than a 
modest NEST pension plan, he didnt have any other retirement savings plans.
Mr B considered that he was likely to have had a medium investment risk rating 
and confirmed his understanding that an investment sum of £14,000 would be 
made in his name in the SIPP in 2016.
The investigator accepted that this is what, on balance, Mr B would most likely 
have done. And although he didnt know precisely how Mr B would have invested, 
he considered that a comparison with one of our benchmark indices  the FTSE 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index, reflecting a medium attitude to 
investment risk - was a suitable means of determining whether any redress was 
due to Mr B.
The investigator also said that the fees should be refunded, with the addition of 
8% simple interest from the date that they were paid to the date of settlement. A 
further £250 should be paid to Mr B in respect of the upset caused by missing 
out on investment returns and the lack of service provided.
N. J. Leeson & Co. disagreed with the investigators conclusions, however. It said 
the following in summary:
It didnt agree that Mr B was advised to invest in the MetLife product in 2016, as 
his share of the SIPP didnt hold enough money to make such an investment. It 
was always the intention to just invest his fathers surplus cash.
There was a discussion about investing Mr Bs SIPP money in 2018, but as the 
relationship had by that point become strained, they couldnt reach agreement 
on a course of action.
The MetLife investment wasnt a ten year plan. It was an open ended plan with 
options on the 10th anniversary, and guaranteed lock-ins on a daily basis. The 
level upon which income was based could only go up, not down.
N. J. Leeson & Co. disagreed that there had been no ongoing service provided. 
It had supplied the investigator with many emails which demonstrated how it 
was involved in the regular running of the SIPPs, and that ongoing advice and 
services including regular valuations had been provided.
The annual fee of 0.5% was fair for the ongoing service provided, and N. J. Leeson 
& Co. wasnt prepared to refund these.
It disagreed that Mr Bs fund value should be compared to the recommended 
benchmark index. The only investment fund ever under consideration was the 
MetLife fund, and it was to this fund alone that any comparison should be 
made.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Im considering here is that raised by Mr B  as Ive said above, those 
raised by his father and sister are being dealt with separately.
I firstly need to determine whether Mr B was justified in believing that he was receiving 
advice to invest in the MetLife fund, and that this investment had in fact been made on his 
behalf. To that end, Id firstly echo some of the commentary made by the investigator 
around the lack of fact finding or risk profiling which would and should have been part of 
the normal process of providing regulated advice. And as with the investigator, and for the 
same reasons already set out above, I think on balance that any advice given to Mr B 
here, such as it was, was in a personal, individual capacity, rather than to the company.
Ive noted that both parties have differing versions as to whether Mr B should have 
reasonably concluded that his SIPP funds were going to be invested in the MetLife fund. 
N.J. Leeson & Co. has said that it should have been clear to all parties that the 
investment was only going to be in his fathers name. And Ive also noted that the 
suitability letter issued to Mr Bs father on 5 August 2016 was consistent with that.
But this was addressed to Mr Bs father only, rather than to Mr B and his sister. And 
although I accept that Mr Bs father could have conveyed this to Mr B, its possible that this 
particular aspect didnt catch his eye. The letter also said that N. J. Leeson & Co. had 
discussed the proposal with Mr Bs sister, which would have reassured Mr Bs father than 
this was consistent with what had been agreed.
If I also take into account the initial illustration produced with all three members of the 
SIPP as lives assured, I think on balance that Mr B would have reasonably believed that 
his SIPP cash funds were going to be invested as well.
N. J. Leeson & Co. has said that Mr B didnt have enough cash funds to invest at the time, 
but the letter to Mr Bs father explained that the cash would be taken from the joint SIPP 
account. And the later recommendation to invest in 2018 suggested that money be 
transferred from that joint account to Mr Bs own account in order for him to invest. So it 
appears that it was possible for the joint SIPP funds, along with those in Mr Bs own 
account, to facilitate an individual investment of £14,000.
Its unclear exactly what funds were left in cash after the £42,000 investment in Mr Bs 
fathers sole name. But I accept that hes likely to have been a medium risk investor  Ive 
seen no reason for me to doubt this  and therefore any amount of cash which was over 
and above that needed to pay the SIPP administration fees and those levied by N. J. 
Leeson & Co. ought to have been invested in accordance with that risk profile. There was 
no reason for excess funds to be retained in cash. The questions posed by N. J. Leeson & 
Co. to the SIPP administrator at the end of 2018 relating to how much could be invested, 
whilst leaving sufficient funds to pay the fees, seems to also confirm its own view on that 
point.
But I think that this should have been dealt with before then, especially if the charges 
levied by N. J. Leeson & Co. for ongoing advisory services are taken into account. The 
fees werent high, but they should, as a minimum, nevertheless have included a basic 
monitoring of how much cash was being held and how much of this should be invested for 
all members of the SIPP.This occurred for one of the parties  Mr Bs father  but left Mr B with no investment 
growth within the SIPP, other than returns obtained on the cash deposits. I therefore think 
that Mr B is justifiably aggrieved that hes received little growth on his SIPP funds, whilst 
also paying for a service he feels he didnt receive.
So my view is that Mr B should be compensated for any lost growth. N. J. Leeson & Co. 
has said that the benchmark suggested by the investigator isnt appropriate, as the only 
investment under consideration was that into MetLife. But this shouldnt have been the 
case. Given their quite different circumstances and likely objectives, its difficult to 
understand how a low risk product such as that offered by MetLife would be suitable for 
both Mr B and his father.
And I think N. J. Leeson & Co. ought to have thought more constructively about what 
might be a suitable investment for Mr B  just as it did in 2018 when suggesting the T 
Bailey Dynamic Fund for the investment of £20,000 (with £5,000 taken from the joint 
SIPP account).
Putting things right
As Ive said above, its not clear how much would have been available for Mr B to invest 
after the £42,000 investment in his fathers sole name. But he was nevertheless expecting 
fund growth on £14,000  his prospective share of that investment. I think that this, then, 
should be the notional amount which is used for comparison purposes. And for the 
reasons given, I also think that the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index is an 
appropriate benchmark to use for that comparison.
The comparison should be made on the notional sum of £14,000, between the growth this 
would have achieved in the SIPP cash account, and the growth it would have achieved 
from the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index, from the date of the initial 
MetLife investment to the date of any final decision along these same lines. N. J. Leeson 
& Co. should ensure that Mr Bs SIPP funds are increased by the total of any loss 
determined by that comparison, allowing for any available tax reliefs and charges.
But my view is that there doesnt then need to be a refund of the fees paid to N. J. Leeson 
& Co. The comparison with the benchmark would serve to compensate Mr B for lost 
growth  which is what he would reasonably have been paying fees towards. To also 
refund the fees would be to doubly compensate Mr B.
I do, however, consider that a further payment of £250 is appropriate in respect of the 
upset caused to Mr B when realising that he hadnt been participating in fund growth for 
over two years. Given his lack of other significant pension planning, I think that would have 
been quite distressing.
My provisional decision
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and direct N. J. Leeson & Co. to calculate 
and pay compensation as set out above.
In response to my provisional decision, N. J. Leeson & Co. said that it didnt think that Mr B 
intended to invest in any other fund than that in which his fathers pension fund was 
invested. It didnt therefore consider that the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index was relevant in this case. 
N. J. Leeson & Co. said that it had obtained from MetLife the performance of the fund in 
which Mr Bs fathers pension had been invested, which equated to growth of 7%. N. J. Leeson & Co. applied this same percentage growth to the £14,000 of Mr Bs funds which 
would have been invested and said that it was prepared to pay this sum - £980  to Mr B to 
resolve the matter. It would also pay Mr B the recommended amount of £250 for the upset 
involved.
This offer of settlement was conveyed to Mr B, but he declined to accept it, saying that use 
of that fund rather than the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index would 
significantly undervalue the compensation due.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the point made by N. J. Leeson & Co. relating to the index which 
should be used for compensation purposes, but having done so, I remain of the view that the 
FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index would be more appropriate for Mr B  
and for the same reasons as set out in the provisional decision.
To reiterate, Mr Bs circumstances were quite different from those of his father, and Im 
persuaded that a medium risk profile could plausibly have been attributed to him. So with 
suitable and more timely advice, I think Mr B would have had his funds invested in a fund 
which suited that attitude to investment risk  and my view remains that the FTSE Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is an appropriate proxy for the purpose of calculating 
whether compensation for investment loss is due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. N. J. Leeson & Co. should carry out the loss 
calculation as directed in my provisional decision, in addition to paying Mr B £250 for the 
upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman