DRN-2222399
The complaint
 Mr P complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited (MFL) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of the repairs he 
had carried out to be refunded.
What happened
Mr P entered a hire purchase agreement in November 2019 to acquire a used car. At the 
time of acquisition, the car was just over four years old and had been driven more than 
60,000 miles. Mr P told us:
A month after he purchased the car, a mistake by the dealership came to light; the 
vehicle wasnt correctly taxed, and he had to place the car into storage for just over 
seven weeks at a cost of nearly £1,500 until the matter was rectified;
he collected the car from storage at the end of February 2020 once the car tax issue 
had been corrected;
the first time he drove the car a problem with the clutch occurred  hed only driven 
about 75 miles and when he depressed the clutch, the pedal didnt return to its 
resting position;
he couldnt move the car and he had to arrange for roadside recovery with a third 
party;
he paid £203.36 to have the car repaired; £103.36 in parts and a further £100 in 
labour because he had nowhere where he could securely keep the car whilst MFL 
investigated this new complaint. And he was already in dispute with MFL over the 
storage costs hed previously incurred when the car wasnt correctly taxed.
MFL dealt with the car tax administration error as a separate complaint. So, its not being 
looked at or considered as part of this complaint. But I have referred to it in order to provide 
some important background to Mr Ps complaint about the quality of the car.
MFL rejected this complaint. It said it told Mr P it needed to see a copy of the roadside 
recovery report and it would need to carry out its own investigation to establish liability. And 
because Mr P had already had the car repaired, MFL said it had been unable to conduct its 
own investigation and analysis; it couldnt establish liability for the problem; and it wouldnt 
cover any of Mr Ps costs.
Mr P didnt accept that he should be responsible for the costs of repairs and raised his 
complaint with this service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She 
explained that based on the evidence shed seen she thought there was a fault with the car. 
And that based on Mr Ps limited use of the car, she thought the fault was either present or 
in development when it was supplied to Mr P. So, she asked MFL to reimburse Mr Ps 
repair costs.
MFL disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says theres no evidence that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of sale because Mr P arranged repair work 
before MFL had an opportunity to investigate the matter. Mr P was told that MFL needed to 
complete a diagnostic report so that it could establish liability. But he didnt do that, he simply 
got the repair work completed.
MFL also says Mr P didnt need to have the car repaired so quickly, he couldve avoided the 
need to pay further storage costs by purchasing a parking permit at reasonable price. It says 
this wouldve allowed it time to complete a thorough investigation and it may have been 
prepared to cover the cost of this permit as part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with MFL. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), MFL can be held liable 
if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. At the 
time of acquisition Mr Ps car was around four years old and had been driven more than 
60,000 miles. Given this it would be reasonable to expect a level of wear and tear and it is 
possible that issues can arise shortly after acquisition even if they werent present at the 
point of supply.
In this case, however, Mr P had had very limited use of the car. The issue occurred within 
just three months of his acquiring the car, and it had spent most of this period in storage and 
unused, whilst the dealership sorted out an unrelated matter. By the time of the incident at 
the end of February 2020, Mr P had driven just over 1,000 miles and had use of the car for 
less than 30 days.
Ive seen evidence of the roadside assistance provided by a third party and this confirms that 
the car was towed to a garage for repairs because of an issue with the clutch pedal. Ive also 
seen a copy of the parts invoice from the garage for a replacement clutch master cylinder. 
And I have testimony from Mr P that the garage repairs resolved the issue.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car, and that the 
fault was remedied with the replacement of the clutch master cylinder. And, in view of the 
probability that its failure was more likely a consequence of driving style than of wear and 
tear; and Mr Ps very limited use of the car; and the short time between his acquiring it and 
the fault occurring, I think its more likely than not that this fault was either present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr P.
Mr P had the repairs undertaken at his cost and although I acknowledge that he shouldve 
contacted MFL before this happened, as I accept, on balance, the clutch had a fault that was 
present or developing at the point of supply, I dont think he should be liable for the cost of 
the repairs.
I say this because I find Mr Ps actions to be reasonable in the circumstances. His car 
developed a fault 75 miles into a journey and he arranged roadside recovery. The independent roadside recovery firm confirmed the problem and towed the car to a garage. I 
dont think it surprising that given the relatively low cost of the repairs that Mr P arranged to 
have them undertaken; hed had relatively little opportunity to use a car he was paying for 
and this appears to have been through no fault of his own.
Hed already incurred storage costs in connection with the dealerships mistake in taxing the 
car and he had an ongoing complaint with MFL about this. So, I dont think its reasonable for 
MFL to suggest he shouldve incurred additional costs for another parking permit which it 
may have been able to coveras part of the complaint. 
Im satisfied that Mr Ps actions were reasonable; theres no evidence that the repairs did not 
require undertaking and his actions mitigated likely consequential losses. Therefore, while 
he may not have gone about this the right way, I do not find he acted unreasonably by 
having the car repaired. And Im satisfied theres enough evidence to persuade me that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Putting things right
MFL should compensate Mr P for the cost of repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Pay Mr P £203.36 to cover the parts and labour costs for the repairs to the car (on 
receipt of evidence that he incurred these costs).
Pay interest at 8% simple on this amount from the date paid until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman