DRN-3819096
The complaint
Ms D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) marked her credit file 
with missed payment markers and should have agreed a second payment holiday.
What happened
Ms D had a credit card from M&S. Her income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and
on 7 April 2020, M&S agreed a payment holiday(PH) for three months  under the FCAs
pandemic support scheme. On Ms Ds statement dated 13 September 2020, the balance
was £14,932.92 and the limit was £14,700. In September 2020, Ms D called M&S to ask for
an extension to the payment holiday. M&S asked for an income & expenditure (I&E) form.
But Ms D didnt want to complete one. She called M&S again on 1 December 2020 and a
payment break was agreed for six months  to the end of May 2021. This included no
payments, interest, or charges, but credit reference agencies (CRAs) were advised there
was an arrangement. In December 2020, Ms Ds balance was 14,323 debit.
Ms D complained. She said that she shouldve been given a second payment holiday (PH)
under the FCA scheme without having to complete an income and expenditure form. And
then  there wouldve been no need for the payment break she was given. And because of
that, her credit file had been marked. And it was marked with missed payments and not an
arrangement  as it shouldve been. She said this was affecting her career. She also said
that M&Ss service was poor, and their call handlers werent empathetic to her situation. She
said she was diagnosed as clinically extremely vulnerable (CEV) and M&S were aware of
that and shouldve treated her differently.
In September 2020, M&S said they needed to complete an I&E form to work out what
customers could afford to pay before they could agree to a further PH. M&S said Ms D could
apply for a PH  but it had to run consecutively from the first PH. On Ms Ds second
complaint point: in December 2020, M&S said a payment break was the best solution for
her, and she was advised then that her credit file would be marked that she had an
arrangement with M&S. They said that on the call on 1 December 2020, Ms D accepted that
her credit file would be marked. M&S said that all the information had been given to Ms D so 
she could make an informed decision as to how to proceed.
Ms D didnt agree. She brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S acted
reasonably. He felt that Ms D was given the right solution in December 2020  as she had
no income then, nor was it certain when she might return to work. He said that M&S call
handler set out the effect on Ms Ds credit file - as he said that the CRAs would be advised
there was an arrangement. He had also told Ms D about the process by which a full default
could be registered on her credit file.
Ms D didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The crux of Ms Ds complaint is:
- She believes that M&S didnt need to ask for an income and expenditure form when
she asked for a further PH in September 2020; and M&S shouldve granted her a
second PH without one.
- She says she shouldve been given a PH and not a payment break when she called
in December 2020.
- As a result of the payment break, her credit file was marked with missed payments
and not arrangement as she was told it would be. She says its now affecting her
professional career.
- She was classed as clinically extremely vulnerable (CEV). M&S were aware of that
and shouldve treated her accordingly.
Income & expenditure form: Ms D says that the FCAs rules for PHs said that a PH
shouldve been agreed if it was asked for  when she called M&S on 10 September 2020.
But on this point, Im afraid I dont agree. To explain, in April 2020, the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of
the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including M&S, had to put in place payment holidays
on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help customers who were affected.
Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby
payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference
agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided
by firms in that way up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent
normally agreed  and firms should then consider whether a longer-term solution would be
more appropriate.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances.
Turning to Ms Ds specific argument  that M&S shouldve given her a PH without question.
But M&S didnt have to do that. Where a PH might not have been in a customers best 
interest  in other words, if the application of interest during the PH would result in greater
problems for customers, then a PH wouldnt have been the right solution. The FCAs
guidance (dated July 2020) on a second PH says: a further full or partial payment
deferral (holiday) would obviously not be in the customers interests if it would give them a
greater overall debt burden compared to other solutions (that might involve reduced or
waived interest for example) that could equally meet their needs and that burden would be
clearly unsustainable. A payment deferral(holiday) is also unlikely to be appropriate where a
customer is unable to repay the deferred amounts within a reasonable time period. And 
for M&S to decide on that, they needed to understand Ms Ds financial situation better - by
using a I&E form. So - I think that was a reasonable thing to ask for.
On a related point  Ms D says that on the call on 10 September 2020, she found the call
handler unsympathetic to her situation and I agree with that. I listened to the call. He didnt
explain why a I&E form was needed and was unsure of the requirements of the FCA
scheme. He simply read out a section of the FCA regulations. I dont think that was helpful. If
he had explained why a I&E form was needed, Ms D may have felt she had received a better
service and appreciated what M&S wanted; and the ensuing dissatisfaction and complaintmay not have taken place.
And so  I have considered this and think M&S should pay compensation of £100 for that.
I also reviewed M&S final response dated September 2020. In it, they said that a second PH
had to run consecutively after the first PH. That wasnt correct  a second PH could have
started at any time, and theres nothing in the FCAs guidance which says otherwise. That
was misleading to Ms D.
And so  I think M&S should pay a further £100 for that error.
Payment holiday (PH) Vs payment break: When Ms D called M&S again on 1 December,
she was offered a payment break, and not a PH. Ive reviewed what happened, and I think
that was the right solution for Ms D at that time. I listened to the call. Ms D said she had no
income; and she didnt know when she would return to work  she said it might be in March
2021, but she couldnt be certain. In those circumstances, it wouldnt have been responsible
for M&S to give her another PH  which wouldve meant interest (of around £210 per month)
wouldve been added for another three months, with no clear way of knowing if Ms D could
afford to pay it. So  M&S proposed a payment break for six months with zero interest and
charges, with no payments. On the call, Ms D agreed that was the right thing to do in her
circumstances she said that if things didnt improve for her in terms of a return to work, she
may well sell her house to repay her debts. But  I dont think that was a reason for M&S to
agree to a PH, as the scheme was designed to bridge a gap in earnings due to the
pandemic (rather than repayment by sale of assets). On the call, Ms D said she appreciated
M&S help. And so  I think M&S acted reasonably here.
Credit file impact: On the call on 1 December 2020, M&S call handler said the payment
break would be reported to the CRAs and restrict Ms Ds ability to get credit. Ms D asked
more questions  and said she couldnt afford for it to show as a default. Ms D accepted
there would be a notification on her credit file as she said its getting to the point where my
credit file is going to have to take a hitthats where we are at.
The call handler said it would show as an arrangement on your credit file. We asked M&S
more on this - and they confirmed thats what they notified to the CRAs. I also looked at the
letters sent to Ms D on 2 December 2020 and 16 December 2020  and they said We have
to let the credit reference agencies shown below know that we have entered into an
arrangement with you. This could make it more difficult for you to borrow in the future. And
so  I think M&S met their broad obligations  which were to advise Ms D that there would 
be an effect on her credit file. But Ms D argues that there are missed payment markers on
her credit file, and not an arrangement marker.
I considered the relevant guidance on this. The principles for reporting status of accounts is
set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) (Principles for the Reporting of Arrears,
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies). This states: Should a
temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you and your lender,
this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs. . Depending on the period and amount of
the arrangement, arrears may continue to be reported. Such temporary arrangements may
last for some time but are generally expected to revert to the contracted terms at some
future point. For such accounts arrears may continue to be calculated in accordance with the
contracted terms. This means that firms (such as M&S) should report an arrangement for
the period it runs, with arrears also being reported where payments have been missed.
We asked M&S more about this aspect  and they showed us that they advised the CRAs
that Ms Ds account was in an arrangement for the months of December 2020 through to
February 2021  i.e. three months. Ms D has shown us her credit file  and thats what was
recorded on it. But M&S had agreed a payment break for six months  so I think it wouldvebeen reasonable for M&S to report Ms Ds account as in arrangement for that six month
period, not just for three months. After that, they reported Ms Ds account as being in arrears
 which it then was, as the monthly contractual payments werent being made in full. So that
was reasonable.
And while I cant say how prospective lenders view a missed payment as opposed to an
arrangement  its fair to say that the effect of a default has much more of an impact on
someones credit rating than arrangement or missed payment. But it is reasonable that M&S
change Ms Ds credit file to show she was in a arrangement between December 2020 and
May 2021. And as M&S made an error in that respect, I think a further payment of
compensation of £100 should be made, as it has clearly caused Ms D some anxiety and
concern.
And on the calls  its clear that Ms D wanted to avoid a full default  and I can understand
that. She asked about that as she said, so it wont be shown as a default?. The call handler
explained that would only happen after six months of missed payments and he recorded Ms
Ds concerns about that on her customer file  so a default wouldnt be registered without
any notice. He explained to her the default process - whereby there would be a notice of
default, and then a final demand before any default was registered. And - M&S didnt register
a default, which is what Ms Ds main concern was.
I listened to the further calls that Ms D had with M&S on 13 January 2021, 14 January 2021,
and 20 January 2021. On the calls, Ms D asked that M&S listen to the call on 16 December
2021  she said M&S said there had been a coding problem and that must have led to the
wrong information being sent to the CRAs. So  I listened to the call on 16 December 2020
in the light of that  and the call handler said that there may have been a coding problem -
which may have led to them calling Ms D  but I havent seen anything to suggest that
caused the wrong information to be advised to the CRAs.
On the calls between 13 January 2021 and 20 January 2021  I have to say that Ms D
received poor service. M&S call handlers were indecisive about the payment break that Ms
D was on, nor how it affected her credit file. If they had got to grips with Ms Ds situation and
her concerns, her questions couldve been answered more effectively. As it was, she
became more frustrated and anxious. Ms D stated to M&S that she had spent four hours on
the phone since the beginning of December 2020  and I can see that was the case. So, for
this, I think M&S should pay some compensation  I have included this within the £100 I am
awarding for the call in September 2020.
Clinically Extremely Vulnerable: Ms D says she was CEV and shielding. Its not clear to me
what she told M&S about her condition  but said to them that it was her CEV status that
prevented her from working. And for me, thats the important point  her CEV meant she had
no income, and thats what was important for M&S to understand to give her the right
solution. We expect firms to act differently and to take into account a customers vulnerability
if it is considered that, for example, they cannot engage with their financial situation and
make sensible, informed choices about their finances. But - I dont think that was the case
here for Ms D. So  I dont think her CEV meant that M&S shouldve treated her differently to
how they did.
In summary: I dont think M&S made any errors in asking for an I&E form in September
2020; and provided the right solution in December 2020 by agreeing to a payment break. But
they shouldve advised the CRAs that an arrangement was in place for six months (not three
months). M&S made a misleading statement in their final response. And I do think that Ms D
received poor service on the calls in September 2020 and December 2020. Our service has
set down some criteria for deciding awards of compensation. This says an award up to £300
might be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake,requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. I think what happened here falls within that
definition. And so, for M&S errors and for accumulated poor service, I think that a payment
of compensation of £300 is appropriate.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Ms D didnt respond. M&S did. They said they agreed to amend Ms Ds credit file to show 
she was in arrangement from March to June 2021. They also said that the build-up of 
arrears shown on Ms Ds credit file from December 2020 to November 2021 was recorded 
accurately and should remain. M&S said theyd delayed defaulting Ms Ds account  which 
would normally have happened in May-June 2021. M&S agreed to pay compensation of 
£300.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S have agreed with the provisional decision  as they agreed to mark Ms Ds credit file as 
in arrangement from March 2021 to June 2021 (it had already been so marked for December 
2020 to February 2021). But they also mentioned that the arrears markers should remain 
on Ms Ds credit file. This is an accurate recording of what happened  so I agree with that. 
Other than that, my final decision is consistent with the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:
Amend Ms Ds credit file to show as in arrangement between March 2021 and June 
2021.
Pay £300 for distress and inconvenience. Ms D should advise M&S how she wishes 
this to be paid  to her credit card account or bank account. If the latter, she should 
advise her bank account details.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman