DRN-3378113
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse a cash withdrawal that he says wasnt 
dispensed correctly.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr M was abroad. He says he tried to withdraw money from a cash machine. 
He wanted to withdraw 2,000 units of the local currency. But he says the machine only 
dispensed 200 units. The next day, he reported this to Monzo.
Monzo contacted the machine operator through the card processing networks chargeback 
scheme. It said that, base don the information it received, it thought the cash was dispensed 
correctly. Mr M didnt agree  and referred the complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2022. I said Id considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint  and that based on what Id seen, I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
I first noted that the information from the machine owner showed that Mr M made a number 
of attempts to withdraw cash from the machine  but these exceeded a limit so were 
unsuccessful. It then showed the withdrawal Mr M made. It showed Mr M withdrew 2,000 
units of the local currency, dispensed as 5 x 100 notes and 3 x 500 notes.
I acknowledged that this information, on its own, wasnt enough to show that the transaction 
processed correctly and with no errors. And I noted that wed asked Monzo for additional 
information about the transaction, including whether cash was found in the machines purge 
bin and whether the machine balanced a the end of the day  but Monzo had said it wasnt 
able to provide this information as it wasnt something merchants were required to provide 
as part of the chargeback process.
But Id also considered what Mr M had said happened. He contacted Monzo the day after he 
made the cash withdrawal to say that hed attempted to withdraw 2,000 of currency but only 
received 200. He said he waited to see if it would dispense the rest, but it didnt.
Mr M said the machine dispensed 2 x 100 notes. He said the machine made a strange noise  
and that he could hear a number of notes being counted  and it seemed like there were 
more than just the notes being dispensed. He says he raised this with security near the 
machine, and was told this wasnt the first time this had happened and that many people  
were having the same problem. He says he noticed a device next to where the card entered 
the machine, but doesnt know if that was just a feature of the machine. Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest the machine was tampered with in any way. And in any case this seems 
unlikely as Mr M received some funds from the machine. A cash trap, or similar, would likely 
collect all the dispensed funds, not a portion.
More recently, wed asked Mr M for more information about what happened. According to Mr 
Ms statements, immediately after the disputed cash machine transaction Mr M transferred 
the remaining funds in his Monzo account to an account with another business.  Mr M had 
previously referred a complaint to us about this other business  hed said that that two cash 
machine withdrawals in January 2021 had been dispensed incorrectly. I further noted that 
the information from the other business showed that shortly after Mr M transferred the funds 
from the Monzo account following cash withdrawal in April, Mr M withdrew the funds from his 
other account just moments later, at the same location as the disputed Monzo withdrawal.
Mr M says he thought the funds got stuck in the machine internally and that if he made 
another withdrawal then it might all come out together. He says that this was the first time 
this had ever happened to him so he was just trying his luck to see if the second withdrawal 
would help. He also said he tried to withdraw 100 units of local currency, but the machine 
only had notes in denominations of 500.
Weve also asked him about the delay in reporting things to Monzo. He says he didnt know 
how to raise the dispute because Monzo didnt have a contact number  so he had to keep 
trying to find out how to do this online.
Thinking about all of this, I didnt find Mr Ms account of what happened plausible or 
persuasive. In particular, this wasnt the first time this had happened. Hed previously said 
the exact same thing happened to him in January 2021. Hed raised a complaint about this in 
March 2021. In that case, Mr M said hed made two cash withdrawals and both had 
dispensed incorrectly. It seems unfortunate that the same thing would happen again so soon 
afterwards. I also found it hard to believe that Mr M would then, after the April 2021 
transaction, have tried a second withdrawal to see if this would release the funds. Moreover, 
it appeared Mr M didnt just withdraw 100 units or even 500 units of the local currency. It 
appears he withdrew more or less all the funds he transferred from the Monzo account  in 
the region of 3,000 units of the local currency.
With all this in mind, I didnt think it was wrong of Monzo to refuse to refund the transaction. I 
accepted it was possible things happened as Mr M described them. But Monzo had some 
evidence that the money was dispensed correctly and, for the reasons Id explained, I didnt 
find Mr Ms account of what happened persuasive. On balance, I thought it more likely the 
cash dispensed correctly.
For these reasons I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I said Id consider any further information I received before 1 June 2022.
Monzo hasnt sent me anything further to consider.  Mr M has responded to say he doesnt 
agree with my findings but has nothing further to add. Ive therefore looked at the complaint 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Monzo or Mr M have sent me anything further to consider. I therefore reach the 
same findings as in my provisional decision for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman