DRN-3678394
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) charged interest on her overdraft when 
she thought she still had an interest free allowance. She says she was not able to get hold of 
HSBC and is unhappy it closed her account and registered a default.
What happened
Miss J held an account with HSBC with an overdraft facility of £500. In November 2020 
HSBC sent Miss J an overdraft renewal letter to the address it had registered for her which 
confirmed her limit and outlined the charges that applied going forward.
Miss J stopped using her account in April 2020 when the balance was near the top of her 
overdraft limit. HSBC started applying interest on the overdraft from December 2020. By July 
2021 because there was no money coming into the account the overdraft charges put Miss 
Js account balance over her arranged overdraft limit of £500.
HSBC sent several letters to Miss J regarding this in August and September 2021. The 
letters explained she was over her limit and that a payment needed to be made to bring the 
balance back within the arranged overdraft limit and asked Miss J to get in touch.
As no action was taken and Miss J failed to get in touch HSBC sent a default notice in 
November 2021 and a final demand letter in January 2022.
The account was closed in February 2022 with an outstanding balance of £613.21 and 
transferred to HSBCs debt recovery team and a default was registered.
Miss J complained to HSBC about this and the difficulties shed had trying to get in touch.
HSBC says interest was applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. HSBC 
said it tried to contact Miss J on numerous occasions but as it had no response it issued the 
required notices, closed the account and transferred the debt to its internal debt collector. 
Miss J was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss Js concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC hadnt 
done anything wrong. 
Miss J disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Miss Js complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss J has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss J back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
One of Miss Js complaints is that HSBC wrongly applied interest to her overdraft when it 
had previously written to her in November 2020 saying that her overdraft would continue to 
be interest free. Im afraid Miss J is mistaken as Ive seen a copy of this letter and it confirms 
that interest would be charged on overdrawn balances above £25. So I dont think HSBC did 
anything wrong when it started charging interest on Miss Js overdrawn balance from 
December 2020.
Miss J is also unhappy with the difficulties shes had in trying to contact HSBC and the action 
it took on her account. Miss J says she moved abroad at the end of 2019 and was not able 
to access her account through the internet as shed lost her credentials when her phone 
malfunctioned. She said she had tried to phone HSBC but wasnt able to get through and 
that her parents had also gone into a branch on her behalf and tried to make a video call to 
discuss her account, but for security reasons HSBC wasnt able to discuss her account this 
way.
But HSBCs records show that it had no contact from Miss J until after the account was 
closed, it didnt hold a contact number for her, and that Miss J failed to update her address 
with it prior to this. I can see from Miss Js bank statements that she was abroad from 
January 2020 and that she stopped spending on the account once she reached the top of 
her overdraft limit in April of that year. 
As Im sure Miss J is aware having a bank account comes with responsibilities one of which 
is keeping your contact details with the bank up to date. But even without receiving all the 
letters from HSBC about her account I think Miss J was aware of what her overdraft limit was 
and that she had reached it - as she stopped using the account at the point she reached her 
limit. And Im sure she wouldve understood that her overdrawn balance was money she 
owed.
The outstanding balance on her overdraft was a debt due to HSBC and HSBC are entitled to 
collect this. So, providing it followed the correct processes (and from what I can see it did) I 
cant say it did anything wrong in closing the account and registering a default. And I dont 
think the difficulties Miss J had in getting in contact with HSBC were due to mistakes made 
on HSBCs part. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think HSBC has treated Miss J unfairly 
in the actions it took on her account and I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman