DRN-2282760
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim for theft of his laptop.
What happened
Mr Y had contents insurance with Aviva. He met with two prospective cash buyers of his 
laptop in the foyer of his apartment building. He counted the cash before handing over his 
laptop, but he thought the money looked odd. Mr Y says he felt intimidated because there 
were two of them and he felt obliged to complete the sale, which was for a little under £2000.
It became clear that the buyer had given him fake money, so Mr Y reported the matter to the 
police. The police told him to claim on his contents insurance.
Aviva declined Mr Ys claim because his policy didnt cover theft by deception. He 
complained because he thought Aviva shouldve covered his loss as a theft. He also thought 
Aviva hadnt handled his claim properly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva had fairly decided that the 
theft was by deception and declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy. Our 
investigator also said that several case handlers had looked at Mr Ys claim. All had reached 
the same decision - his policy didnt cover the claim  and they told Mr Y the outcome within 
two days.
Mr Y didnt agree. He thought Aviva had placed too much emphasis on the definition of 
deception.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
The facts of the matter are not in dispute here. There is CCTV footage showing the laptop 
sale which took place in the foyer of Mr Ys apartment building, although I understand it is 
blurred. And Aviva seems to have accepted that Mr Y felt obliged to complete the sale, even 
though he had doubts. Aviva declined the claim because it thought the buyers obtained the 
laptop by deception rather than a straightforward theft.
Mr Ys policy says:
What is covered
7. Theft or attempted theft.
What is not covered
Theft by deception, unless deception is used only to get into the home.
Theft if you live in a self-contained flat and the theft is from any part of the building 
that other people have access to.
Its clear that the policy doesnt cover theft by deception, so the key factor here is whether 
Aviva fairly classed the act as one of deception.
The policy doesnt define theft or deception, so Ive thought carefully about what the policy 
seems to imply. Aviva says it wont cover theft by deception unless the deception is to gain 
access to the home. I take that to mean that if Mr Y had invited into his home the prospective 
buyers, who had no intention of buying, and while there they had taken some of his 
belongings without his knowledge, Aviva may have considered that theft. Thats because the 
buyers wouldve got access to Mr Ys home by deceiving him  pretending they were going 
to buy something when their intent was to steal from him. 
But here, Mr Y intended to sell the laptop to the buyers. He took the money and, even 
though doubtful about it, he handed over his laptop. The deception here was not in gaining 
access to his home to steal his laptop: the buyers deceived Mr Y about the legitimacy of the 
money they used to buy it from him.
I cant imagine the upset this situation wouldve caused Mr Y, and I dont doubt that he felt 
intimidated during the exchange. But it wasnt until after the buyers had left that he became 
certain the money was fake. Until then he was completing the sale of the laptop as he had 
planned to do. So, I think it was fair for Aviva to determine the theft was by deception and 
decline Mr Ys claim under the policy.
I understand that Mr Y was unhappy with the time it took Aviva to decline his claim, which 
was a little over a day and a half. Aviva considered the claim and several case handlers 
reached the same conclusion. I dont think Aviva failed to consider elements of Mr Ys claim, 
and it told him its decision promptly. I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong here.
In summary, while Im sorry about the upset Mr Y experienced in the circumstances, I think 
Aviva fairly declined his claim in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman