DRN-3649986
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt transfer the balance from her dormant 
account to her active account when requested.
What happened
Mrs B told us:
She asked Sainsburys to transfer the balance from her dormant account to her open 
savings account on 16 July 2021.
The bank didnt transfer the account balance as requested but it did pay in a 
compensation payment from another complaint and the instructions were on the 
same correspondence.
She had been trying to get her money moved to her savings account for ten months 
which had caused her inconvenience.  
Sainsburys told us:
It didnt transfer the balance from the dormant account as requested by Mrs B 
because she hadnt completed the account security.
It had asked Mrs B to call the customer service team to complete the actions required 
to release the balance from the dormant account, but she hadnt contacted the bank. 
It hadnt made an error and had correctly followed its process, but to assist Mrs B it 
had now transferred the balance as requested. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the bank had acted in 
line with its dormant account process when requesting Mrs B complete security checks. And 
that it was reasonable for Sainsburys to request she call to ensure she had given the 
transfer instruction.
 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said she didnt believe the bank had now made the transfer as an 
exception to its process and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. There isnt much more that I can add in 
addition to what our investigator has already said.
Mrs B says Sainsburys should have transferred the balance from her dormant account as 
requested in her email of 16 July. However, Ive seen that the bank responded to Mrs B on 
19 July to explain that it would pay the compensation into her savings account. However, it 
wasnt able to transfer the balance from the dormant account as she needed to complete 
additional security checks. Sainsburys also told Mrs B at the same time how and when she 
would be able to do this. 
Sainsburys have provided us with a copy of their process for releasing money from a 
dormant account. This says that there are security checks required before the funds are 
released. So Im satisfied that the bank was following its process and it didnt treat Mrs B 
unreasonably when it refused to transfer the dormant account balance using just her email 
instruction. Im also persuaded that the action taken by Sainsburys to release the funds from 
Mrs Bs dormant account after she had brought the complaint to this service was an 
exception from this process in an effort to resolve the complaint. 
Mrs B says that she has been dealing with this for around ten months. But Im not persuaded 
thats the case. I can see that it wasnt until May 2022 that Mrs B contacted the bank to say 
that she had recently checked her balance and noticed the dormant account balance hadnt 
been transferred. So I dont doubt that Mrs B has been without the money in her account, 
however I cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for this. I say this because Sainsburys 
made Mrs B aware of what she needed to do to get the balance transferred, and it did so by 
replying to the email address Mrs B had contacted them from.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B and I recognise she feels strongly about this complaint. But 
based on the evidence available I dont think Sainsburys treated her unfairly. As the bank 
has now transferred the dormant account balance to Mrs Bs savings account, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman