DRN-2915037
The complaint
Mr K had buildings and contents insurance arranged through BISL Limited. His policy 
automatically renewed three times, but he decided to cancel after the third renewal. BISL 
charged him a cancellation fee, which he is unhappy about.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K hasnt said that BISL did anything wrong during the renewal process - his 
complaint is about the cancellation charge.
BISL provided clear information about its cancellation charge in the policy and 
renewal documents which, again, Mr K hasnt disputed, but he thinks the terms are 
unfair.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS 7.2.3 4) says the amount payable by the policyholder on cancellation may 
include fees to cover sufficient costs charged by the insurance intermediary (BISL).
Ive looked at what BISL charged, and I can see that it provided detailed information 
in the policy documents about what the charge covers. I can also see that the fee it 
charged Mr K was £10 less than it wouldve been for cancellation in previous years. 
So, I cant reasonably say the fee is unfair.
Mr K said he didnt know his policy would renew automatically. However, the 
documents clearly state that this will happen. While he might not have been at home 
to receive the letters, the details were also sent by email and to his online self-service 
portal.
Im satisfied that BISL provided the appropriate renewal information for Mr K and I 
cant reasonably ask it to remove a valid charge because he was unavailable to 
cancel within the renewal period.
BISL also made a reasonable offer to consider arranging a refund of half of the 
premiums paid if Mr K provided evidence of dual insurance. He didnt provide the 
information, but I note he also accepts the charges for the period he was covered.
Overall, Im satisfied that BISL handled the renewal, and charged a reasonable 
cancellation fee, in line with the terms of the policy.
Im not going to tell BISL to refund the cancellation fee.
For these reasons, although I realise Mr K may be disappointed, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about BISL Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman