DRN-3771854
The complaint
Mr D complains that Scots Consultants (London) Ltd trading as Coversure Insurance 
Services (Teddington) (Coversure) mis-sold him a legal expenses insurance policy as it did 
not include legal defence cover.
What happened
Mr D took out a legal expenses insurance policy through his broker, Coversure. He had been 
a customer of Coversures for around 11 years where they had provided his professional 
property insurance, but he had previously made it known to his broker that he required 
comprehensive legal expenses cover.
Mr D made a claim for assistance with a property dispute after he received pre-action 
correspondence from a third-party property developer (the claimant) that owned a 
neighbouring property. The developer claimed that Mr D had unlawfully installed bollards in a 
passageway that vehicles used to access their property, which they said restricted access. It 
wasnt in dispute that Mr D owned the land, so the claimant therefore sought a declaration 
that a right of way existed by way of a prescriptive easement, as well as an injunction 
against Mr D with regards to the obstruction of that right of way; and a claim for damages for 
any losses caused by the obstruction and associated delay.
After initially being told that he had legal defence cover by Coversure, he was subsequently 
informed that his claim would not be covered, as the policy only provided cover to pursue a 
claim for nuisance and trespass; it didnt extend to the defence of these or any other 
property claims. 
Mr D complained that Coversure failed to provide adequate legal expenses cover with his 
property owners insurance policy as it didnt provide legal defence cover. He said that he 
had specified to Coversure that he required comprehensive legal expenses insurance that 
would provide cover for both pursuing and defending all common property disputes, 
including boundary disputes, that might be brought against him. He says he was assured on 
numerous occasions that legal defence expenses formed part of his cover, only to discover 
that it did not when he needed to claim. 
Coversure upheld Mr Ds mis-sale complaint and acknowledged that they had given him the 
wrong advice. The broker offered £2,500 in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
However, Mr D rejected this as he had to instruct and fund his own solicitors to defend the 
legal action, which far exceeded the offer put forwards by Coversure. He says that the 
broker should have provided him with a full indemnity to defend the claim. 
Mr D also submits that Coversures negligence prejudiced his ability to defend himself due to 
the costs involved that he would have to cover. He says he felt he had no other option but to 
accept the claimants settlement proposal, which involved him conceding the right of way 
across his property, removing the bollards and paying 70% of the claimants legal costs 
(amounting to around £24,000) as well as his own legal fees. 
Mr D submits that if he had the benefit of insurance, he could have maintained a 
comprehensive defence such that the likely outcome would have been the claimant 
withdrawing their claim. However, as a result of the settlement, a unilateral notice was 
registered in favour of the property developer over Mr Ds property. He says his property has 
been significantly devalued, and in order to remove the rights that the property developer 
has now acquired he will need to pay them compensation. 
So, as well as covering Mr Ds legal fees, he says that Coversure should also compensate 
him for the cost of removing the unilateral notice, the loss of opportunity in being able to 
develop his property, as well as the decrease in value of his property. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied the policy had been mis-sold by 
Coversure such that it should cover Mr Ds legal costs, but he didnt think the broker would 
be responsible for covering the consequential losses claimed by Mr D. He recommended 
that a cost draftsman be appointed to determine what the reasonable legal costs would be. 
Both parties disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022, I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasoning:
Did Coversure mis-sell the policy?
Mr D says that due to a previous boundary dispute a few years prior, he gave 
Coversure clear instructions that all policies moving forwards were to have 
comprehensive legal expenses cover in place for legal defence costs against all 
common property disputes. 
There is no written evidence of these requests being made to Coversure at the time. 
And Coversure said the renewal of the policy in July 2019 was also agreed verbally. 
However, based on the call recordings Ive listened to between Mr D and the broker 
when discussing his complaint, its clear that Coversure were also under the 
impression that he had legal defence cover in place. Indeed, the broker also sent 
Mr D an email on 14 May 2020 attaching a copy of his policy terms and conditions, 
which it incorrectly stated was a legal defence policy.
It isnt clear why the broker was under this impression, as there is no mention of legal 
defence cover within the policy wording; it only provides cover to pursue claims of 
nuisance and trespass. Coversure also verbally admitted liability for this mistake 
during its telephone conversations with Mr D, where it said it would be taking 
responsibility, which it also set out in its final response letter:
I also advised to you verbally at the renewal that the policy provided cover for this 
under the Legal section of the AXA Insurance policyI have now reviewed the cover 
provided by the legal section of your policy and whilst it does provide some cover for 
trespass and nuisance it only provides cover in respect of your pursuing a claim for 
nuisance and trespass not defending yourself with regard to this actionIn this 
matter my advice was incorrect which means I uphold your complaint.
The broker said that Mr D had only requested comprehensive cover with regards to 
nuisance and trespass claims. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that this is what 
Mr D had specifically asked for. Therefore, based on the evidence available, I think 
its likely that Mr D did request a level of cover that would provide for more than just 
pursuing nuisance and trespass claims, but that would extend to covering him for 
both pursuing and defending all common property disputes. However, he was not 
provided with such a policy by Coversure and so wrongly assumed he had this level 
of cover in place.Coversure have confirmed that it sold the policy to Mr D on an advised basis, which 
means they had  a regulatory duty to ensure it was suitable for the demands and 
needs of the insured (see, for example, the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, 
general principles and insurance: conduct of business sourcebook). 
Coversure ought reasonably to have been aware that such cover did not form part of 
the policy. Indeed, it is not mentioned anywhere within the policy document. And 
having known what Mr Ds insurance requirements were  and as the broker that was 
recommending the policy to him  they ought to have checked the terms and 
conditions to ensure it was suitable for his needs. I do not think a broker exercising 
the care and skill that most reasonable, prudent brokers would expect, would have 
concluded that this policy was suitable for Mr D based on the requirements he had 
specified.
Given the importance that Mr D says he placed upon having comprehensive legal 
protection cover in place, Coversure ought to have highlighted that it did not include 
legal defence cover for property disputes. But I have not seen any evidence that this 
was highlighted or brought to Mr Ds attention by the broker. Had they done so, I do 
not think he would have agreed to take out the particular policy underwritten by AXA 
and wouldve likely continued his search for a policy that did provide legal defence 
cover, and which would have covered the loss he has since suffered.
Which policy would Mr D have likely taken out?
Coversure say they are not aware of other products on the market that would have 
covered Mr Ds defence being brought against him by the property developer. 
However, Mr D has since provided copies of alternative landlord insurance 
(underwritten by Allianz/Markel) that covers both the pursual and defence of property 
disputes:
We will pay costs to obtain damages or other legal remedy for:
1. Trespass on your property
2. Nuisance from another affecting your property 
3. The defence of anothers claimed right of way over your property
The policies Mr D has brought to my attention were on the market in 2019 (i.e. before 
proceedings were brought against him by the property developer and at the time he 
renewed his policy through Coversure). So, if Coversure had brought the limitations 
of cover to his attention at the point of sale/renewal, Im satisfied he wouldnt have 
taken it out, and could have likely found cover elsewhere that did provide legal 
defence cover for his claim. In other words, but for Coversures failure to recommend 
a suitable policy and/or highlight the lack of legal defence cover, Mr D would have 
had adequate cover in place for his legal expenses to have potentially been covered 
(subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, of course). 
Would Mr Ds claim have likely been covered under the alternative policy?
As outlined above, the alternative policy Mr D said he would have taken out covers 
legal costs in order to defend anothers claimed right of way over their property. In 
Mr Ds case, the claimant property developer was seeking a declaration that a right of 
way existed through the accessway by way of a prescriptive easement. Should that 
right of way have been declared, the claimant was further seeking an injunction forcing Mr D to remove the obstructive bollards. So, Im satisfied there would have 
been an insured event here for the policy to respond to, as Mr D was seeking to 
defend a claimed right of way over his property.
However, a key requirement of this (and the vast majority) of legal expenses 
insurance policies require that the claim have reasonable prospects of success in 
excess of 51%:
Prospects of success
[The insurer] will make a decision on whether to cover your claim based on a legal 
opinion from your representativeon whether your claim has at least a 51% chance 
of
successfully pursuing your case and securing a legal and/or financial remedy
not being found liable in a civil (not criminal) case against you
If there is 50% or less chance of the above, we will not provide cover.
So, the insurer of any alternative policy would have required Mr Ds legal 
representative to advise on whether his defence had reasonable prospects of 
succeeding. 
Despite not having insurance funding in place, Mr D instructed counsel to advise on 
the prospects of his case. 
Counsel couldnt give firm advice on prospects because the claimant had not set out 
in detail what facts they were to rely on, or how they proposed to prove them in 
establishing the right of way. He was therefore unable to express in percentage 
terms what the prospects were of Mr Ds defence succeeding. However, based on 
the evidence that was available, counsel was of the preliminary view that the claim by 
the property developer faced a number of hurdles and was likely to fail. 
I appreciate that counsel did not express in percentage terms what the prospects of 
Mr D succeeding would have been. However, a follow up opinion was subsequently 
given by Mr Ds solicitor in light of further developments and responses from the 
claimant, which did say that Mr D did in theory have a more than 50% chance of 
winning his case, albeit there were some weaknesses and other reasons (including 
costs) as to why he ought to settle, (which is what he eventually did). 
So, in light of the opinions of both Mr Ds solicitor and barrister, it seems likely that 
Mr Ds claim would have satisfied the policy requirement of enjoying reasonable 
prospects of success. As a result, Im satisfied it would have likely been covered and 
Mr D would have received insurance funding for his defence, but for Coversures 
failure to recommend a policy that provided such cover. I therefore intend asking the 
broker to compensate Mr Ds losses in this regard.
How should Coversure put things right?
When a customer has suffered a loss as a result of wrongdoing or negligence on the 
part of a business, it has long been the approach of this service to direct the business 
to put the customer back in the position they would have been but for the negligence. 
So, its necessary to consider what position Mr D would have likely been in had his 
claim been funded by insurance.Based on the policies Mr D has provided, an insurer would have indemnified Mr D for 
his legal costs, which includes:
Costs
Own costs
The legal or professional costs (including any disbursements such as 
Counsels or expert fees) reasonably charged to you by your representative. 
Other party costs
In civil proceedings, the legal costs incurred by the party you are in dispute 
with that a Court or Tribunal orders you to pay or that you, with our prior 
written agreement, agree to pay under the terms of a settlement
So, its clear that an insurer would have covered Mr Ds own legal expenses, as well 
as those he had to pay to the claimant as part of the settlement agreement. This was 
accepted in line with advice from his solicitor, so it seems an insurer would have 
likely agreed to the terms as well, particularly given the risk of costs significantly 
escalating if matters proceeded to trial. As a result, I intend asking Coversure to 
cover Mr Ds legal costs that would have been covered under the alternative policy, 
up to an indemnity limit of £50,000 (the reasons for which will follow). 
Consequential losses
Mr D says that he was forced to accept the claimants settlement proposal due to the 
rapidly increasing costs he wouldve had to cover without having insurance funding in 
place. He says that if he had the benefit of insurance funding, he could have 
maintained a comprehensive defence that would have resulted in the claimant 
withdrawing their claim, and therefore would not have had a to register a unilateral 
notice against his property. However, Im not persuaded this would have been the 
case. 
While I appreciate Mr D had been advised by his solicitor that his case had 
reasonable prospects of success, there are other factors that I think would have likely 
prevented him from pursuing his defence any further  even with the benefit of 
insurance funding. 
First, Ive considered the indemnity limit that would have likely been available to Mr D 
had his claim been covered. The indemnity limit applicable to the policy Mr D took out 
with Coversure was for £50,000. He says he requested for this to be increased to 
£100,000 on 5 May 2020. But this was after he had already received the pre-action 
correspondence from the claimant in February 2020. A policyholder cannot make 
amendments to their insurance in anticipation of a potential claim, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Coversure to deny this. 
I appreciate that, in hindsight, Mr D would have wanted a higher indemnity limit given 
the potential costs of litigation he was facing. If Mr D had placed great importance on 
having an indemnity of at least £100,000, it seems he would have requested this 
from the broker upon renewal or at least at the point he asked to have 
comprehensive legal cover put in place. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
that he ever requested a £100,000 indemnity limit before he knew of any action being 
taken against him by the clamant. The policy schedule issued upon renewal of Mr Ds policy taken out through 
Coversure states that legal expenses formed part of his cover (albeit without 
specifying that this did not include legal defence cover) and that the limit of any one 
claim was for £50,000. This was issued on 29 July 2019. I appreciate that Mr D may 
not have seen this. But as a commercial customer, he ought reasonably to have 
been aware of the indemnity limits applicable to his policy. However, I cannot see 
that he challenged the broker on this level of cover upon renewal of his policy, which 
leads me to believe he was satisfied with this level of indemnity. 
As a result, Im not persuaded he would have sought a higher indemnity limit, or 
wouldve had any reason to seek a higher indemnity limit in July 2019, had he taken 
out cover elsewhere if Coversure informed him that his policy did not include legal 
defence cover. This is the level of indemnity he has been paying premiums for up 
until now. 
Mr D says he has been advised that the minimum level of cover one should have in 
place for commercial and residential property insurance is £100,000. I understand 
that property disputes can be expensive. But then there will also be many disputes 
that can be resolved with an indemnity limit of £50,000, which is a level of cover that 
some landlords may choose on the basis of paying cheaper premiums. 
So, although the type of legal expenses cover sold to Mr D may not have been 
suitable (in that it did not cover legal defence claims), Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that a £50,000 indemnity limit would have been an unsuitable 
recommendation. And on balance, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
retrospectively grant a £100,000 indemnity limit to Mr D, just because he would have 
opted for this level of cover in hindsight. 
Therefore, I have considered what would have likely happened if Mr D had a £50,000 
indemnity limit in place. 
When Mr D received the settlement proposal from the claimant, their costs were 
already around £30,000. They proposed that Mr D pay 70% of their costs (amounting 
to £24,000). And while I appreciate Mr D considers he could have secured better 
terms; I cant ignore that this is largely speculative. In his advice dated 4 May 2021, 
the solicitor highlighted that while Mr Ds defence had merit if he were to proceed to 
trial, it wasnt without significant risk. The claimant had a QC fighting their case and 
had a witness that was willing to testify under oath. Mr D had a witness statement 
from a third party, but they were not willing to give evidence in court, which therefore 
weakened his defence as a result. 
The solicitor advised Mr D that costs were likely to significantly escalate, with the 
claimants cost budget being in the region of £100,000. He was warned that he could 
face a potential liability in excess of £150,000 if the case went against him. Mr Ds 
own solicitors costs were also within the region of £22,000, as well as paying over 
£4,000 for counsels opinion on his defence. So, even if he didnt accept the 
settlement offer, its likely his indemnity would have been exhausted long before the 
conclusion of his case if it went to trial (particularly with the cost of instructing counsel 
to represent him). And with the not insignificant risk of a potential cost liability of 
£150,000, Im not persuaded Mr D would have chosen to take that risk, which would 
have involved him spending a significant amount of his own money to fund his 
defence at the point his indemnity was exhausted. 
Mr D has also greatly emphasised that he was extremely anxious to settle the case, 
and that it was causing him a great deal of trauma. So it further seems unlikely that he would have chosen to reject the claimants settlement offer, which would have all 
roughly fallen within a £50,000 indemnity limit (including his own legal fees).  
As a result, Im not persuaded that Mr D would have likely achieved a more 
favourable result even with the benefit of insurance funding. I therefore do not intend 
asking Coversure to cover the consequential losses he has requested as a result of 
the settlement agreement, as it seems likely he would have always had to concede 
the right of way. 
Costs incurred pursuing the complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service
Mr D also submits that I should make a further award to cover his solicitors costs 
incurred in bringing his complaint to this service. 
The power to award costs is set out in the rules that govern our procedures. The 
guidance to the relevant rule is set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
(DISP 3.7.10) which states:
In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service, so awards of costs are unlikely to 
be common.
I appreciate this guidance talks about the costs involved in bringing a complaint to 
our service. But our service also takes the same approach to considering any costs 
involved in appointing professional advisers to make a complaint to a business in the 
first instance as well. And the Financial Ombudsman Service only awards 
compensation for such professional fees where, in the ombudsmans view, it was 
necessary for the consumer to have incurred these fees in order to bring the 
complaint, which I do not consider it was.  
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr D could not have pursued a complaint 
himself with Coversure, and subsequently to this service. This office considers 
complaints in line with relevant law, regulations, good industry practice, as well as in 
line with what is fair and reasonable  irrespective of how a case is presented. And if 
Coversure mis-sold legal expenses cover to Mr D, we would have always asked 
them to put things right (again, irrespective of how the case was presented by either 
side). Indeed, Mr D has been able to articulate his arguments quite clearly in his 
correspondence with this service in any event.
So, I do not accept that Mr D would have only been successful in his complaint if he 
had professional representation. I therefore do not consider it appropriate to make a 
costs award in these circumstances, and I do not intend asking Coversure to cover 
them. 
Distress and inconvenience
One thing that has been clear to me throughout my consideration of Mr Ds complaint 
is the significant impact Coversures error has had on him. Being left without 
insurance cover, facing the prospect of losing a significant amount of money 
defending himself against a large company, and having to pay his own legal fees has 
caused him considerable stress, anxiety, and trauma. 
I understand that the inherent uncertainty of litigation can be stressful in itself. But 
this was significantly exacerbated by Coversures failure to put adequate cover in 
place. I can also see that he was misled by Coversure into initially believing that he did have legal defence cover in place, which led to him initially taking a bullish 
approach with the property developer instead of considering whether to comply with 
the claimants demands to remove the bollards from the outset. 
When Coversures error later came to light, he was also given assurances that they 
would take full liability and that it would all be sorted under their professional 
indemnity insurance. Instead, Mr D was offered a sum of £2,500 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint, which did not entail the broker taking liability like they 
said they would.
I have also taken into account the considerable amount of time that Mr D has put into 
bringing his complaint, including putting together and annotating hundreds of 
documents as part of his submissions. And overall, Im satisfied that Coversure 
should compensate Mr D, so I intend awarding £2,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their mis-selling of the policy and handling of his 
claim/complaint. I appreciate this award is substantial, but I consider it to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in light of the distress Mr D has suffered.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my provisional 
findings. Mr D and his representative responded any put forwards further evidence and 
submissions. In summary:
He does not consider that a £50,000 indemnity limit was a suitable recommendation 
and has pointed to other policies he would have taken out that offer an indemnity of 
£100,000. 
The removal of the bollards took place voluntarily before the settlement offer was 
submitted. He would have been in a strong position to negotiate a favourable 
settlement because he had removed one of the key obstacles to the property 
developers willingness to negotiate. He therefore doesnt accept the suggestion that 
his ability to secure better terms is largely speculative, and has submitted further 
evidence relating to the merits of the claimants legal claim in this regard.  
No reference has been made to other decisions made by the service that he has 
brought to my attention. 
Coversure also responded with the following comments:
It does not consider the 8% simple interest that has been proposed on top of the 
monetary award to be fair as it is unreasonably punitive, and a court would not likely 
award the same.
The £2,000 compensation awarded for distress and inconvenience is also unduly 
punitive considering the broker will be covering the legal costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M D and his representative have put forward considerable further submissions in response 
to my provisional decision, and Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in. But I 
dont intend to respond in similar detail. My provisional decision sets out in full my reasons 
for upholding the complaint, and those reasons still remain. So, Ill focus on what I consider 
to be the key points Mr D has raised in response. If I dont mention a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I also note that Mr D has referenced numerous final decisions made by this service which he 
feels are highly relevant to his complaint. However, our service does not make reference to 
previous cases decided by ombudsmen within final decisions. While we aim to be consistent, 
our service does not operate on a system of precedent like the courts. Each case is decided 
on its own individual merits  not based on what has been decided by ombudsmen in other 
cases. As such, I have based on my decision on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Mr Ds individual case. 
Indemnity limit 
Mr D has submitted copies of policy documents and application forms that show he could 
have taken out a policy with legal defence cover with an indemnity limit of £100,000 or more. 
And I appreciate that the particular policies he has submitted do provide such a level of 
indemnity. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, I cannot see that he ever 
requested such a level of indemnity from Coversure, or that having at least £100,000 of 
cover formed one of his key requirements at the time. I understand that with hindsight, Mr D 
would have chosen to have this level of cover. But Ive got to take into account what Mr D 
would have likely done at the time he renewed his policy with Coversure in 2019, i.e. before 
he knew of any potential legal action being brought against him. 
Mr D was close to bringing a legal expenses claim in the past when he was having issues 
with the previous tenant of the neighbouring premises. But despite this, he had still only paid 
premiums for a level of cover that would afford an indemnity of £50,000. It therefore seems 
unlikely he wouldve chosen to pay additional premiums for an increased indemnity before 
knowing of any potential legal action being brought against him.
I accept that Mr Ds cover was inadequate insofar as it did not cover legal defence costs. 
And while I agree he would have likely sought an alternative policy that did cover this, Ive 
not seen enough persuasive evidence to suggest he would have specifically sought a higher 
indemnity at the time (without the benefit of hindsight of course). And as Ive explained, the 
level of indemnity for which Mr D had paid premiums was for £50,000 worth of cover. I 
therefore do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to expect the broker to now have to 
cover more than Mr D had paid for, given I dont think a £50,000 level of indemnity would 
have been unsuitable.
Consequential losses
Mr D has submitted further documents relating to the legal claim brought against him by the 
property developer, as he feels strongly that the property developer did not need access 
over his land, and that he could have negotiated a better settlement. 
Ive looked at all the evidence Mr D has provided. However, it is not within the remit or 
expertise of this service to determine whether the property developers legal claim had merit 
or not. We therefore look to the advice a policyholder received at the relevant time from their 
appointed legal professionals, which is why I have based my assumptions on both the 
opinion Mr D received from counsel, as well as that of his solicitor in relation to the 
settlement offer made by the claimant. 
At the time the settlement offer was received, Mr D was advised by his solicitor that the 
claimant had a QC fighting their case and had a witness that was willing to testify under 
oath. Mr D also had a witness statement from a third party, but they were not willing to give 
evidence in court, which he was told had weakened his defence as a result. He was also 
warned that he could face potential liability in excess of £150,000 if the case went against 
him. So it is in this context that I have considered what action Mr D would have likely taken if he had a legal defence policy in place with an indemnity of £50,000.
I appreciate that Mr D removed the bollards before the settlement offer was received from 
the claimant. He submits that having legal expenses insurance in place would have put him 
in a much better position to negotiate. Mr D has also submitted the witness statement he had 
in support of his case. However, its clear from Mr Ds solicitors advice of 4 May 2021 that 
the claimant was not willing to give evidence in court, which his solicitor at the time said 
weakened his defence. 
Mr D says the claimant did not need to win the case to develop their site and seems to 
suggest that pursuing any further legal action would have been unimportant to the property 
developer. But I dont think it can be said that the clamant wouldve simply abandoned the 
legal action if Mr D rejected the settlement offer. Indeed, the claimant still felt the matter 
important enough to pursue legal action against Mr D to establish the right of way  even 
after he had removed the obstructive bollards. And while I accept they were willing to 
negotiate, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that they would have 
conceded as easily as Mr D has suggested, particularly after they had already incurred costs 
of over £30,000 (which any claimant would have been keen to recover from the defendant).  
So, while Ive considered everything Mr D has said about what he would have done, Im not 
persuaded that a litigant with such ample resources as the claimant (that had already 
incurred significant costs) would have necessarily felt pressured to settle, simply because 
Mr D had a legal expenses policy in place. 
I understand Mr D and his representative may strongly be of the opinion that he would have 
achieved a better settlement. But I still consider this suggestion to be too speculative in 
nature to fairly and reasonably hold Coversure responsible for his consequential losses. 
There is nothing Ive seen by way of independent or contemporaneous evidence that would 
support this assertion.
Even if Mr D could have secured a better settlement, its still far too uncertain to say on what 
terms that settlement would have been. And with such ambiguity, any consequential losses 
would not have been foreseeable, and so it would not be possible to determine what 
Coversure could reasonably be held liable for. 
As Ive also set out previously in my provisional decision, Mr D would have also faced the 
prospects of his indemnity limit being exhausted long before the conclusion of his case if it 
did proceed to trial. So, taking this into account, along with the fact that Mr D was anxious to 
settle the matter as quickly as possible, I think its more likely than not that he would have 
still chosen to accept the settlement terms offered by the claimant, rather than running the 
risk of paying significant costs. My conclusions therefore remain the same in that I do not 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask Coversure to compensate Mr D for his 
consequential losses. 
Compensation
Coversure submits that the £2,00 compensation I have awarded is too high. I acknowledge it 
is a substantial amount of compensation, but I do not consider it to be severe. Awards of 
compensation are not designed to be punitive on a firm or to act as a deterrent, but instead 
to recognise the severity of the impact a firms wrongdoing has had on its customer.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. I appreciate that Coversure will now be 
covering Mr Ds legal fees. But that is what the broker should have done from the outset. The compensation awarded is to further recognise the significant distress and anxiety 
caused to Mr D, which I have already set out in my provisional decision. 
I consider £2,000 to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact Coversures actions 
have had on Mr D, and see no reason to alter this in light of the brokers submissions.
Interest
I appreciate that Coversure considers an award of 8% simple interest to be unduly punitive. 
However, it has long been the approach of this service to award 8% simple interest on top of 
money awards, which we consider to be an appropriate rate to reflect the cost of being 
deprived of money the complainant wouldve otherwise had, but for the firms error. This 
takes into account various factors, including the typical cost of borrowing that a consumer or 
small business would have to pay, were they to borrow to cover the loss, for example
In this instance, if Coversure had put the correct cover in place for Mr D, he wouldnt have 
had to cover his legal costs himself as they wouldve been covered by the insurer. As a 
result, Mr D has been deprived of this money, so I consider it appropriate to award 8% 
simple interest per annum on any amount he has paid himself, from the point he has paid it 
(of which Coversure can request reasonable evidence) until the date of settlement.
For the avoidance of doubt, the date of settlement in this context refers to the date 
Coversure settle the claim in line with the direction set out in this final decision (as opposed 
to the date of settlement reached between Mr D and the claimant).  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Scots Consultants (London) 
Ltd trading as Coversure Insurance Services (Teddington) to:
Pay Mr Ds legal costs (including those of the claimant as part of the settlement 
agreement) up to £50,000.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on those costs from the date Mr D paid them until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D £2,000 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman