DRN-3504278
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under her 
roadside assistance motor insurance policy. She wants compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused. 
What happened
Mrs Rs electric car had a flat tyre whilst she was attending a funeral. She called UKIs 
recovery service for assistance. But it wasnt able to attend her before the cemetery closed. 
And so Mrs R had to leave her car there overnight and find her own way home. 
The car was eventually recovered but there was then confusion about the type of recovery 
needed and obtaining the correct replacement tyre. Mrs R herself found a garage that could 
provide the replacement. Mrs R was without her car for two days and was caused trouble 
and upset. UKI agreed that it had caused upset at a difficult time. It offered Mrs R £300 
compensation in total for this including £25 for her taxi fares. But Mrs R remained unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had accepted its service failings and had compensated Mrs R sufficiently for these in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Mrs R replied that UKI hadnt considered her welfare, leaving her alone in the dark. She said 
that she was still distressed by the ordeal. She wanted at least £1,000 compensation for the 
distress caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Rs experience. I can understand that she would feel 
frightened and upset at the time and that this has had a lasting effect on her. Ive looked at 
Mrs Rs account and UKIs file to understand what happened.
In her initial call to UKI Mrs R made it clear that her car was in the cemetery that was soon to 
close, and she would be alone in the dark. Mrs R was upset and scared. UKI could only 
provide a two hour window for the recovery agent to attend. It noted that the gates would be 
locked. But it didnt seem to understand that it wouldnt be able to access the car if the 
cemetery was closed, and it didnt consider Mrs Rs welfare at the time. 
UKI suggested that Mrs R drive her car, with the puncture, outside the cemetery. But this 
wasnt feasible. But it didnt look at alternatives, like having the service provider attend 
earlier. And UKI didnt offer Mrs R any assistance getting home, as I think it should have. 
Fortunately, Mrs R was able to arrange a lift to start her journey home. But she had to leave 
her car unattended and I can understand that this must have been a worry for her. 
There was then a lack of communication about what tyre was required for Mrs Rs car. And 
Mrs Rs car was taken to two garages which were unable to supply the correct tyre when I 
think UKI should have established this first. Promised calls back werent made. And Mrs R 
herself located a dealers garage that could replace the tyre the following day. UKI agreed to 
transport the car between garages and to pay for Mrs Rs taxi fare to the garage.
But there was further mis-communication or confusion about the type of recovery vehicle 
needed for Mrs Rs car. And Mrs R was kept waiting for an hour until another vehicle arrived. 
Her car was then taken to the third garage and repaired. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Mrs Rs car was repaired and UKI has reimbursed her taxi fares. I think this restores Mrs Rs 
position to what it should have been if the correct service had been provided. 
In terms of impact, Mrs R had the upset and stress of making her own way home, in the 
dark, at a difficult time. She was caused frustration by not receiving promised calls back. She 
was caused worry by not being correctly informed about the recovery vehicle. She had to 
locate a garage that could supply the correct tyre. She was without her car for two days. 
UKI paid Mrs R £275 compensation for this. Ive considered the impact the poor service had 
on Mrs R. And Im satisfied that this amount of compensation is in keeping with the level 
recommended by our published guidance for the inconvenience, frustration and upset 
caused by the repeated errors. So I dont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman