DRN-1215501
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his application for a credit card. He 
feels this was because of his age.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M applied for a credit card with Barclays. However, his application was declined.
Barclays said this was because Mr Ms levels of borrowing and expenditure indicated that he 
may find it difficult to keep up with future repayments if he took out further credit. 
Mr M complained. He said hed been a customer of Barclays for many years. Hed borrowed 
money from it and had paid this back. He applied for the card because a Barclays 
representative had said he needed a credit card for emergencies. Hed completed the 
application form in the branch. Mr M didnt agree with the reason Barclays had given for 
declining his application and felt that it was because of his age. He said he had regular rental 
income from properties he owns with his wife. He said hes never had problems with other 
credit products hes had; he doesnt owe money to anyone and saves regularly into an 
Individual Savings Account.
Barclays said that Mr Ms application had been declined because of affordability and not his 
age. It said that, although Mr M receives additional income from rental properties, it didnt 
view that as stable income, and it had made significant changes to its lending policy to lend 
responsibly. However, it felt that it had provided a poor level of service to Mr M in handling 
his complaint during a phone call. It apologised for this and credited Mr Ms account with 
£25. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said it was up to the lender to decide what methods it uses to establish affordability, and he 
was satisfied that Barclays had carried out reasonable checks when it decided to decline 
Mr Ms application. He said there wasnt any evidence to show that Mr Ms application was 
declined because of his age. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said he would like an explanation of why rental income was unstable, as he has had long-
term tenants. Hes had mortgages and loans from Barclays in the past. He still believes his 
age was a factor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to hear that Mr Ms wife has been experiencing health problems. I can 
understand that this will have been a difficult and worrying time for him, and that their well-
being will have been his priority at this time.
I can see that Mr M has felt frustrated and doesnt agree with Barclays assessment of his 
circumstances in relation to his credit card application.
However, it is for Barclays to decide who it is willing to offer a credit facility to. And, after 
considering the information Mr M provided through his application for the card about his 
income and outgoings, it considered that it wasnt willing to offer him this credit card. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that its decision related to Mr Ms age. It seems that it 
was more that Barclays didnt believe that granting Mr M a credit facility would be 
responsible after taking into account his financial situation. I know that Mr M feels that the 
rental income he receives has been stable for several years. But it is for Barclays to decide 
on the criteria it uses when assessing a customers circumstances.  The information Ive 
seen suggests that it did review the initial decline decision, but the outcome of this review 
was that it still didnt consider it was able to overturn that decision.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, particularly as hes said he applied for the credit 
card based on the recommendation of a staff member in a Barclays branch. But I dont think 
that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in the decision it reached not to offer him the 
credit card, as this was a decision it was entitled to make.
Barclays has acknowledged that it could have provided a better level of service in handling 
Mr Ms complaint. It has apologised for this and paid Mr M £25 by way of compensation and 
I think that represents a fair resolution to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman