DRN-3005217
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about a delinked unsecured loan that they hold with                          
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages (Heliodor). Theyre unhappy that 
Heliodor didnt tell them theyd missed payments and that it has reported their account as 
being in arrears, which has impacted their credit files. They say this has prevented them 
from obtaining further borrowing elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A hold an unsecured loan with Heliodor Mortgages (Heliodor), which had 
previously been linked to their mortgage, which has now been repaid.
The contractual monthly payment (CMP) was £180, but Mr and Mrs A had been making 
monthly payments of £200 by standing order (SO) for some time, which meant a credit 
balance had accrued on the account.
I understand that in 2020, Mr and Mrs A applied for further borrowing with another lender, 
and they were surprised to find that Heliodor had reported information about their account 
being in arrears to credit reference agencies. They say the information recorded on their 
credit files resulted in their application being declined.  
Mr and Mrs A complained to Heliodor that it hadnt told them that they had missed payments, 
and because of this, they felt the information recorded on their credit files should be 
removed. 
Heliodor provided written responses in August 2020 and September 2020. It explained that it 
had received sporadic payments from Mr and Mrs A since July 2019, and it had reported the 
account as being in more than one month of arrears from April 2020. Heliodor said that it 
had tried to contact Mr and Mrs A by phone in May 2020 and June 2020, but it hadnt been 
successful.
Heliodor says that Mr A informed it in July 2020 that he would be making a payment to clear 
the arrears. However, the account remained in arrears so it continued to report this to credit 
reference agencies, as it was required to do by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
Mr A says he had arranged for a payment of £240 to be made to Heliodor to clear the 
arrears balance, but he later found this payment had been returned to him.
Unhappy with Heliodors response, Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to our service.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she felt Heliodor had made reasonable attempts to contact Mr and Mrs A about 
the arrears on their account and she was satisfied the information reported to credit 
reference agencies correctly reflected the history of the account.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, Mr A said he didnt think 
lenders should be reporting adverse information on credit files during the Covid-19 
pandemic. He explained he had lost his job due to the pandemic and he had been struggling 
financially, but he didnt think he needed to worry about the loan account because hed 
previously been making overpayments. He also confirmed that he hadnt cancelled the SO 
that had been arranged to make the payments.
Mr A also said he didnt receive any calls or messages from Heliodor. And he felt Heliodor 
should have tried to contact him on both of the telephone numbers hed given to it because 
he didnt really use the mobile telephone number.
The investigator considered Mr As further comments. However, her view remained 
unchanged. Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Heliodor try to contact Mr and Mrs A about the missed payments and arrears on the 
account? And if so, did it do this within a reasonable timeframe?
I can see from the information provided that Heliodor didnt receive payments to the account 
in July 2019, November 2019, January 2020, March 2020 and April 2020. During this time 
the credit balance that had accrued from the overpayments Mr and Mrs A had made reduced 
in line with the missed payments. And the account remained in credit until March 2020.
However, on 31 March 2020, the account was in arrears by £95. And on 30 April 2020 it was 
in arrears by £276, which was more than one month of arrears. I understand this is a trigger 
point for Heliodor to contact its customers and to report arrears to credit reference agencies.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs A had provided Heliodor with two contact telephone numbers. 
One was a mobile telephone number and the other appears to be a landline telephone 
number. Ive carefully reviewed Heliodors contact notes and I can see that on 18 May 2020, 
Heliodor sent a text message to the mobile telephone number asking Mr and Mrs A to 
contact it on the number it provided. And on 19 May 2020, Heliodor made attempted calls to 
both of the telephone numbers it held for Mr and Mrs A and it also left a voice message for 
the mobile telephone number.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs A were sent an annual statement dated 31 May 2020. Ive 
carefully reviewed this document and I can see that it clearly shows the arrears outstanding 
on the account.
The contact notes also show that Heliodor sent another text message to the mobile number 
asking Mr and Mrs A to contact it on 16 June 2020. And on 18 June 2020, Heliodor made 
attempted calls to both of the telephone numbers it held for Mr and Mrs A. It also attempted 
a further call to the landline number on 19 June 2020.
Mr A says he didnt receive any calls or messages from Heliodor, and he didnt really use the 
mobile telephone number very much. However, I can see that on 3 July 2020, Mr A called 
Heliodor from the mobile telephone number that it had been trying to reach him on  which 
indicates that he was using this number. And if this was no longer an appropriate number for 
Heliodor to contact him on, I would have expected Mr A to have let Heliodor know that.
On balance, I think that it is more likely than not that Heliodor did make the attempted calls 
and send the messages that Ive referred to above and which were detailed in its contact notes. And given that it had been using both of the telephone numbers that Mr and Mrs A 
had provided it with, I dont think that it is Heliodors fault if these werent received.
Ive gone on to consider whether Heliodor should have tried to contact Mr and Mrs A sooner 
than it did.
Mr A has told us that he lost his job as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and I understand 
Mr and Mrs A were experiencing some financial difficulty because of this. Mr A has 
acknowledged that he didnt tell Heliodor about his circumstances. He also told our 
investigator that he didnt think he needed to worry about the account because hed 
previously been making overpayments. He also said he didnt cancel the SO that had been 
arranged to make the payments.
It isnt clear from the information provided whether Mr and Mrs A were still expecting the SO 
payments theyd arranged to be successful. Or whether they anticipated missing some of 
their payments- but expected the credit balance on the account to cover any missed 
payments. In any event, I understand they feel strongly that Heliodor should have tried to 
contact them sooner than it did do.
Ive noted that despite Mr and Mrs A missing payments from July 2019, the account didnt 
actually fall into arrears until the end of March 2020. And the account wasnt considered to 
be in more than one month of arrears until 30 April 2020.
Given that the account continued to have a credit balance until the end March 2020, and I 
havent seen any evidence to show Heliodor was made aware Mr and Mrs A may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty, I dont think it should have suspected, up until the point the 
account went into arrears, that there might be a problem.
I say this because it may have been Mr and Mrs As intention to miss some of their regular 
payments to work down the credit balance. Ive also taken into consideration that there were 
multiple missed payments before the Covid-19 pandemic started, so I dont think Heliodor 
ought to have connected the way the account was being handled with any financial difficulty 
arising from the pandemic.
Ive taken into consideration that Heliodor didnt try to contact Mr and Mrs A about the 
arrears until 18 May 2020, which was a couple of weeks after the account was considered to 
be in more than one month of arrears. I accept that it may have been helpful for Heliodor to 
have tried to contact Mr and Mrs A around the time the account first went into arrears (on 31 
March 2020). This may have given them the opportunity to get things back on track before 
their credit files were impacted. However, given the difficulty that Heliodor had in reaching          
Mr and Mrs A, Im not confident it would have been successful had it tried any sooner.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Heliodor acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As circumstances
Mr A says Heliodor hasnt taken into the account the difficulty he was facing during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. I can see from Heliodors contact notes that Mr A first contacted it about 
the arrears on the account on 3 July 2020. I understand he said there hadnt been any 
missed payments and he expressed his dissatisfaction about not being told about the 
arrears sooner. He also agreed to make a payment to clear the arrears balance.
Had Mr A made Heliodor aware at this point (or any other) that hed been experiencing 
financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 pandemic, I would have expected Heliodor to have considered his circumstances and thought about offering forbearance options- such as 
taking a payment deferral, in line with the updated FCA guidance.
However, Mr A has confirmed that he didnt make Heliodor aware of his circumstances. And 
during their telephone conversation, Mr A had said he would be arranging a payment to clear 
the arrears. Because of this, Im unable to conclude that Heliodor should have done anything 
differently.
The returned payment
Mr A has provided us with information to show he arranged a payment of £240 to be made 
to Heliodor on 3 July 2020. However, he says that this payment was returned to him without 
explanation. 
Heliodor has confirmed that the payment was returned because Mr A had provided an 
incorrect reference number, which meant it couldnt be directed to his account. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr As frustration, Im unable to hold Heliodor responsible for this.
Further, I can see from the banking records provided by Mr A, that the payment is shown as 
being returned to his bank account on 31 July 2020. Had Mr and Mrs A checked their 
banking records, they would have seen that the payment had been returned to them. 
I can also see from the contact notes that Heliodor made further attempts to contact           
Mr and Mrs A by telephone in July 2020, August 2020 and September 2020. Im, therefore, 
satisfied that Heliodor did enough to chase up the payment after it wasnt received. 
Information reported on Mr and Mrs As credit files
I understand that the arrears on the account werent reduced to an amount that was less 
than one month of arrears until September 2020, and Heliodor continued to record the 
account as being in arrears until August 2020.
Heliodor has provided us with information to show what has been recorded on                    
Mr and Mrs As credit files, and Im satisfied that this correctly reflects the history of the 
account. It follows that I wont be asking Heliodor to make any changes to what it has 
reported to credit reference agencies about Mr and Mrs A account.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman