DRN-3736434
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to avoid his car insurance policy 
when he made a claim. Mr S also complained that the total loss settlement it paid for his 
damaged car wasnt enough. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an incident and his car was damaged. He made a claim to his insurer, 
Covea. Mr S had an additional benefit under the policy called car replacement cover. This 
meant that Covea would provide a replacement car for 21 days if Mr Ss car was deemed a 
total loss. 
Mr Ss car was deemed a total loss. But he wasnt provided with a replacement car. Covea 
avoided Mr Ss policy. This meant it didnt pay anything under the claim he made. 
Mr S complained to Covea. It upheld his complaint as it had avoided his policy in error. It 
reversed its decision and for the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid Mr S £250 
compensation. It provided a refund of £23 as the equivalent cost of replacement car cover 
for one month. It paid a total loss settlement for his car. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. He explained that he works as a courier driver. When 
Covea avoided his policy, the impact was significant on his ability to work, his finances, on 
his ability to see his children and his mental health.
Mr S provided details of courier jobs that had been cancelled and the amounts hed 
expected to be paid for each job. He also provided evidence of costs of temporary car 
insurance during the period his policy was avoided along with taxi fare receipts. 
Mr S didnt think the total loss settlement Covea paid was fair. 
Our Investigator didnt think Covea had done enough to put things right for Mr S. He thought 
Covea should do the following in addition to the £250 compensation it had paid Mr S:
Reimburse Mr S for taxi fares totalling £323 with interest during the 21 day period 
when Mr S was entitled to a replacement car.
Pay £3,177 with interest to Mr S to reflect lost wages until Covea overturned its 
avoidance decision. 
The Investigator checked the main motor trade guides in line with our approach and thought 
Covea had paid a fair total loss settlement after deducting a salvage fee as Mr S wanted to 
keep his car. He didnt recommend Covea cover the costs Mr S paid for temporary insurance 
or the cost to replace a headlamp. 
Mr S accepted the Investigators findings. Covea didnt agree. In summary it says it did 
enough to resolve Mr Ss complaint. It wouldnt consider loss of wages as this is an 
uninsured loss. 
So Covea wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether Covea has done enough to put things right 
for Mr S in light of the consequences of its decision to avoid his policy. I dont think it has and 
I agree with the Investigators recommendations. 
Mr S has explained that he couldnt get to work as a courier driver when Covea avoided his 
policy. He told us his employer didnt have the confidence to get insurance cover for Mr S to 
continue or take work in light of the avoidance. Mr S felt he had been black-listed as no 
employer would want to provide insurance cover for him to drive. Mr S explained that he was 
embarrassed at having to declare hed had an insurance policy avoided. 
When things go wrong we look at what the impact was and what a busines did to put things 
right. We also consider what a customer could have done to mitigate their losses. 
In this case Im satisfied that Mr S didnt believe he could hire a car because of the 
avoidance recorded against him. And as the replacement car cover was cancelled when the 
policy was avoided, Mr S had no recourse to obtain an alternative vehicle here. This was an 
additional benefit Mr S paid for under the policy so that he had some peace of mind that he 
had use of a car for an interim period even if his car was stolen or written off. 
Mr S has described the impact of Coveas incorrect decision to avoid his policy. He says he 
had sleepless nights and considerable anxiety. At times he says he was overwhelmed with 
suicidal thoughts. He said he had to borrow money and wasnt able to repay on time which 
caused him considerable worry and stress. He says he wasnt able to see his children as 
before and this caused considerable upset to him. The prospect of losing work and not 
having access to a vehicle impacted on Mr Ss mental health and family life. 
Mr S has provided details of courier jobs and the amounts he was due to be paid per job 
which were cancelled during the period Covea didnt provide a replacement car and avoided 
the policy. Im satisfied that Mr S - but for the actions of Covea - would have been able to 
carry out this work. 
Covea says loss of wages is an uninsured loss. However, Coveas error in avoiding Mr Ss 
policy incorrectly had a serious impact on Mr S. We look at what is fair and reasonable as 
well as what a policy says. 
While I think Coveas decision to pay compensation of £250 and refund £23 for the 
replacement car benefit payment goes some way to resolving the complaint, I dont think it is 
enough to put things right for Mr S.
I think a fair outcome is for Covea to meet the equivalent costs of lost wages during the 
period Mr S wasnt given a replacement car until the date the avoidance was overturned. I 
think Covea should pay interest on this amount - along with the transport costs Mr S paid 
during the same period - as this is money Mr S should have either received (in wages) or 
shouldnt have had to pay (in fares). 
So Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to do the 
following:
 Reimburse Mr S for taxi fares totalling £323 during the 21 day period when Mr S was 
entitled to a replacement car. Pay £3,177 to Mr S to reflect loss of wages until Covea overturned its avoidance 
decision.
Pay interest on the total sum of £3,500 at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date 
of the claim to the date it pays Mr S.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman