DRN-3770407
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a 
claim for her dogs treatment in October 2021, on the basis that it was a condition which the 
dog had first had symptoms of during the policy waiting period in April 2021.
What happened
Mrs W had cover for her dog with C&G. Her policy started on 28 March 2021 and had a 
waiting period of 14 days. So any conditions which had shown signs or symptoms before 11 
April 2021 werent covered by the policy.
On 9 April 2021 the dog was seen by Mrs Ws vet for a possible urinary tract infection (UTI). 
The veterinary records show that by 19 April 2021 shed recovered and theres no further 
reference to any urinary tract symptoms.
Sadly the dog became ill in October 2021 and died on 15 October 2021. Mrs W was initially 
told the dog had developed leptospirosis. But subsequent analysis of samples didnt confirm 
this. Mrs W was told her dog either had leptospirosis or her illness could have been caused 
by eating something poisonous, but it wasnt a reoccurrence of the UTI shed had in April 
2021.
Mrs W submitted a claim for the cost of her dogs treatment to C&G. This was declined on 
the basis that the treatment was linked to the UTI her dog had in April 2021, during the policy 
waiting period. Mrs W didnt accept this and raised a complaint. 
She provided a letter from her vet, dated 14 January 2022, confirming that the UTI her dog 
had suffered from in April 2021 wasnt related to the treatment in October 2021. And that 
there was nothing in her clinical records to link the two conditions. 
C&G didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint as they maintained that her dogs illness and 
treatment in October was linked to the UTI shed had in April 2021. And so wasnt covered 
by her policy.
Mrs W wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and upheld Mrs Ws complaint. She said there was no evidence to link 
the condition Mrs W had claimed for to the UTI or cystitis her dog had suffered from in April 
2021. 
She said Mrs Ws vet had said the two conditions werent linked. And C&G hadnt provided 
any veterinary evidence that they were linked. So she said C&G should consider the claim 
based on the remaining policy conditions and pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced.
Mrs W accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. The case has now come to me 
for a decision.
Having reviewed the case I asked our investigator to ask Mrs W for confirmation of the 
amount shed paid to her vets for her dogs treatment. And said that I intended to award 
simple interest at 8% on any payments made by Mrs W.
I also asked her to let the parties know that as C&G appeared to have based their decision 
to decline the claim on the dog having a chronic UTI, when theres no evidence of this. And 
they appeared to have ignored the evidence from Mrs Ws vet that the October 2021 illness 
wasnt linked to the minor UTI the dog suffered in April 2021. I intended to award £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs W had suffered as a result of their handling of her claim.
Mrs W has provided a copy of her vets invoice for £1067.11. She also said shes happy with 
the interest award and compensation for distress and inconvenience Ive proposed. 
C&G havent commented on the award of interest or compensation for distress and 
inconvenience they were told I intended to make. 
But they have said that they asked Mrs Ws vet if he was able to provide a definitive 
diagnosis about the cause of the dogs death and didnt receive a reply. That the treating vet 
had said it was highly unlikely that the dogs death was related to the symptoms she had in 
April 2021. And as he didnt categorically state the conditions werent related, they think its 
reasonable to argue that they were. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy states that theres no cover for any claim made during the Waiting Period. 
This is defined as a period of 14 days from the Policy Start Date for an illness that occurs or 
shows Clinical Signs or Symptoms. 
Mrs Ws dog had a UTI in April 2021. She seems to have recovered from this quickly and 
theres no further of record of any such symptoms in her clinical records.
Unfortunately, the dog became unwell in October 2021. She was first seen by a vet on 13 
October 2021, but her condition deteriorated very quickly, and she died on 15 October 2021.
Theres nothing in the dogs clinical records for October 2021 referring to urinary tract 
symptoms. Mrs Ws vet thought the dog had contracted leptospirosis, but analysis of post-
mortem samples didnt positively confirm this, as it was thought the traces of the bacteria 
found could be related to her vaccinations.
So Mrs W not only had to cope with losing her young dog, she also had no clear explanation 
of why this had happened.
Its not entirely clear to me how C&G arrived at their view that the dogs death was linked to 
a UTI in April 2021, from which the dog recovered in a matter of days. The dog was seen by 
the vet between April and October 2021 for routine worm and flea treatments. There was no 
mention of any ongoing symptoms. And Mrs Ws vet has said theres no link between the 
infection in April 2021 and the dogs illness in October 2021.
Ive considered what C&G have said about what Mrs Ws vet has said. I think the vet is quite 
clear in saying that there was no link. In his letter of 14 January 2022 he says, 
There is no evidence to suggest that the cystitis noted on the dogs clinical history in April 
2021 is in any way related to treatment in October 2021. On review of the clinical history there were no further problems reported between April and October 2021 which would link 
these 2 conditions. It is therefore my professional opinion that the 2 conditions are not 
related on any level.
C&G havent provided any veterinary evidence to show that the two conditions were linked. 
In reviewing the dogs clinical records they refer to an entry on 12 April 2021 saying that her 
condition hadnt improved. But ignore the entry dated 19 April 2021 which says that she was 
much better, and no problem was reported.
Based on their selective reading of the dogs records C&G appear to have concluded that 
she had a chronic UTI. Although theres no evidence of this in the records. Theyve then said 
that chronic UTIs in dogs are almost always caused by an underlying medical condition. And 
also that owners often overlook early symptoms of liver inflammation, and theres a strong 
link between pancreatitis and the high liver profile with a UTI.
C&Gs comments and assessment of Mrs Ws claim seem to be based of the incorrect 
assumption that her dog suffered from chronic UTIs, when theres nothing to support this 
opinion. And based on this assumption they appear to have searched to see how UTIs can 
be linked to the high liver markers that were found when the dog became ill in October 2021, 
to enable them to decline her claim. 
It's very sad for Mrs W that as well as losing her young pet, she doesnt know why this 
happened. And Im not persuaded by C&Gs argument that as her vet cant provide a 
definitive cause of death, its reasonable to say it was linked to the minor UTI she had six 
months before. Especially when her vet is clear that the conditions werent linked.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) sets out the rules that businesses 
should follow when assessing claims. It says that claims should be handled promptly and 
fairly. I dont think that C&G handled Mrs Ws claim either promptly of fairly. As they declined 
her claim based or an incorrect reading of her dogs clinical records and ignored clear 
evidence provided by her vet.
Mrs W has told us shes paid her vets bill so think C&G should pay this subject to any 
applicable policy limit and excess, together with interest at 8% simple.
Mrs W has told us about the impact of the loss of her young dog had on her and that this 
was exacerbated by the way in which C&G dealt with her claim. And I think she should be 
compensated for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay Mrs Ws claim for her dogs treatment in October 
2021, the sum of £1067.11, subject to any policy limit and applicable excess. Together with 
simple interest at 8% from the date of payment until settlement.
And I require them to pay her £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their 
handling of her claim has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman