DRN-2175617
The complaint
Ms D complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim made under a building 
warranty.
 
What happened
In October 2019, Ms D told Amtrust there was water entering her property through the roof. 
Amtrust couldnt sent out a surveyor immediately to look at the damage, and so in the 
meantime, Ms D arranged for her own contractor (that Ill call H) to attend. 
H gave Ms D a quote for investigations. Amtrust contacted H directly to find out about the 
cause of damage, but it hadnt established that at the time. To speed up the claim, Amtrust 
agreed to allow H to find the cause of damage whilst it did the repairs. It would then cover 
the cost of the repairs if the damage was covered under the warranty.
H attended the property and put up scaffolding, but then advised Ms D theyd taken on a 
large project and couldnt give her a timescale in which to carry out the repairs. Ms D 
therefore arranged for a different contractor to do the repairs. Amtrust agreed to cover the 
cost of those repairs, as it was established by the new contractor that the damage was 
covered under the warranty.
Ms D has complained about Amtrusts handling of the matter. She says shes had the 
inconvenience of dealing with two contractors, and has also had to pay for two lots of 
scaffolding to be put up. She thinks that Amtrust said something to put off H from carrying 
out the repairs. She also wants Amtrust to reimburse her for Hs invoice.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought H had carried out 
some investigations, but she didnt think Amtrust needed to pay for this. She also didnt think 
Ms D had shown that Amtrust had anything to do with H not doing the repairs. 
Ms D didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrusts communication with H
Amtrust had initially arranged for its own surveyor to attend the property and establish the 
cause of damage. Ms D was unhappy about the length of time that would take, and so she 
arranged for H to attend and carry out investigations. H was therefore working on Ms Ds 
behalf.
Ms D is concerned about Amtrusts involvement, as it spoke to H directly and doesnt have a 
recording of that conversation. She thinks it said something that put off H from carrying out 
the repairs.
Ive looked at Amtrusts notes and I see that it called H after receiving a copy of their quote. 
The quote had given some information about the leak and the repairs needed, and so 
Amtrust wanted to know if H had established the cause of the damage. During the call, H 
apparently advised Amtrust that the quote was only to investigate the cause of damage and 
they couldnt comment on the cause until they were on site.
At this point, Ms D hadnt shown that the damage was covered by the warranty, as the cause 
of damage hadnt yet been established. However, Ms D advised Amtrust that H could carry 
out the repairs a week or so later, and so Amtrust agreed to this, so long as H could 
establish during the repairs that the cause of damage was covered under the warranty. 
Given that H had already attended the property and commented on the leak in their invoice, 
it doesnt seem unreasonable for Amtrust to have called H directly to find out if a cause of 
damage had been established, so that it could confirm whether the claim was covered. Ms H 
was anxious about the time it was taking for Amtrusts surveyor to attend, and so this would 
have sped up the process. 
Ms D hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that Amtrusts communication with H led to 
them not being able to do the repairs, and the information Ive seen doesnt support her view 
on this.
I therefore agree with our investigator that I cant conclude that Amtrust did anything wrong 
here. 
Hs invoice
The warranty provides cover for certain fees, but says this doesnt include costs or fees 
incurred by the policyholder in investigating and/or preparing a claim.
Hs invoice (which Ms D has paid) related to work to erect tower access to carry out 
investigation works to tile flashings and expose apron detail. And to investigate GRP valley 
and water entry point to a window. 
Im satisfied that this would fall under investigating a claim, which isnt covered. And I see 
from Amtrusts notes that it advised Ms D at the time of this. 
Ms D says that H carried out some temporary repairs which she thinks Amtrust should pay 
for. I would agree that Amtrust should cover the cost of any temporary repairs that Ms D paid 
for. 
Ms D has provided an email from H dated 22 November 2019 (I understand H attended the 
property on 19 and 20 November to erect the scaffolding). The email referred to H clearing 
out of the outlets which it thought may help the situation in the interim.
 
However, I agree with the investigator that theres no evidence to suggest that H charged Ms 
D for this work. Consequently, I dont require Amtrust to make any payment towards this 
temporary repair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman