DRN-2540693
The complaint
Mr E complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call), his motor insurance 
broker, mis-sold and mishandled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E took out motor insurance through One Call. The policy he took out was an all sections 
one. This means that the compulsory excess on the policy, £3,000 is charged in the event of 
all claims.
Mr E had an accident on 14 October 2019. He reported the accident to his insurance broker, 
One Call. It processed his claim on behalf of his insurer and charged the excess. 
Mr Es claim was paid but his insurer deemed him at fault for the accident. His vehicle was 
written off. So Mr Es insurer told One Call to cancel the policy. On 28 November 2019 Mr E 
contacted One Call to change the vehicle on his policy. One Call sent the details of the new 
vehicle to Mr Es previous insurer, but they declined to insure the new vehicle. So One Call 
sent Mr Es details to its pool of insurance providers. But all the providers it contacted 
declined to insure Mr E. On 11 December 2019, Mr Es insurance policy was cancelled and 
he was charged for the remaining policy period.
Mr E complained to One Call about the way hed been treated. One Call didnt uphold his 
complaint. So Mr E complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt think One Call had done anything wrong. Mr E didnt agree so his 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it.
Mr E complained that One Call hadnt explained that in the event of a claim he would lose 
the right to a refund if his policy was cancelled before the end of the term. And he felt that 
One Call shouldve been able to arrange for his new car, with a smaller engine than the 
original one hed insured, to be covered with his original insurer. So he wouldntve had to 
pay for insurance he couldnt use. He also felt that the £3,000 excess was too high. 
Ive listened to the call when One Call sold Mr E the policy. And in that call it explained that 
the excess applied to all sections of the policy. So Mr E would be liable for an excess of up 
to £3,000 for any claim. So I think One Call gave Mr E all the information he needed about 
the excess to decide whether to go ahead with the policy. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to blame One Call for the size of the excess.
I note that One Call paid Mr E £30 to acknowledge that it couldve provided him with a better 
level of service when he contacted them to dispute the size of the excess after the claim. But 
that doesnt mean One Call acted unfairly or unreasonably when it correctly applied that 
excess on behalf of the insurer.
After the policy had been set up, One Call sent the full policy documents to Mr E. It also sent 
him a link to a portal from where he could access the policy terms. Access information for 
this portal was sent directly to the email and telephone number Mr E provided when he took 
out the policy. All those documents refer to the excess applying to all sections of the policy.
As part of the portal Mr E was issued with a welcome letter. That letter asked him to read the 
policy documents to ensure that the information provided was correct and that the policy met 
his demands and needs. The documents were also issued to Mr E in the post.
The policy terms confirmed the charges that would be applicable if the policy were to cancel 
at any point. They say that following a claim the full insurance premium would be charged. 
For reference, I include the actual wording below:
Policy cancellation - If You Made a Claim 
Please note that refunds will not be given if a claim has been made before a policy is 
cancelled as the insurer will charge 100% (all of the premium and all administration charges 
on your policy) of the premium regardless of the length of time that cover has been in force. 
If you have paid in full, you will not be entitled to a refund. If you are paying by Direct Debit, 
we will write to you to confirm your account balance.
These terms are clear and One Call has acted reasonably to ensure that Mr E knew about 
them. So I cant hold One Call responsible for Mr E not knowing he would lose the right to a 
refund in the event of a claim.
One Call issued a letter on 26 November 2019, and a text and e-mail on 27 November 2019 
confirming the pending cancellation of the policy. Mr E used One Calls Live Chat function on 
28th November 2019. He wanted to change the vehicle on his policy. Ive seen the transcript 
of that Live Chat and can see that the agent told Mr E that his original insurer wouldnt quote 
for the new vehicle. The agent told him that no insurers they had links with would quote. So 
Im satisfied that at the point, with two weeks left before his insurance was due to be 
cancelled, Mr E knew that he wouldnt be able to insure his car through One Call. And Im 
persuaded that it had been clearly explained to Mr E when his policy would cancel.
I note that under the terms of Mr Es policy, a replacement quote wouldnt have helped, as 
the full premium for his original car wouldve been charged regardless of whether he wanted 
to insure a replacement vehicle. This is very common in the insurance market.
Mr E has expressed his frustration that his insurer wouldnt cover his new car. He said he 
wouldve expected them to cover his new car, which had a much smaller engine than his 
original one. He said Am assuming you know how the insurance markets work typically 2 
litres are cheaper than 3 litres, and I agree that this is normally true. But insurers charge 
more for insurance where they see there might be a greater risk. Mr E was deemed at fault 
for the accident at the root of his complaint. So the insurers wouldve taken this new 
information into account when deciding whether to provide cover for him. 
Mr E felt that the compulsory excess was too big and therefore unfair. But the excess was 
clearly explained from the outset. An insurer is entitled to set the compulsory excess at 
whatever level it sees fit. I know Mr E expressed a view that this service has been able to 
overturn excesses in other cases. But there are no grounds available to me to overturn his 
excess in this case as the excess was clearly explained at the outset of the policy.Mr E also expressed frustration about being held liable for the full years premium, despite 
feeling like hed only benefitted from a much shorter period of cover. But the terms and 
conditions of his policy are clear on this. And in any event, Mr E did receive considerable 
benefit from his policy, as the insurers total settlement cost for the accident was well over 
£8,000. So Ive got no evidence that One Call acted unfairly when it charged Mr E the full 
years premium. 
All of this has been costly and frustrating to Mr E. But I dont find that One Call had mis-sold 
the policy or otherwise treated Mr E unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to ask One 
Call to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman