DRN-3783773
The complaint
The estate of Mr P, represented by Mr N, has complained about Scottish Widows Limited 
(Scottish Widows) decision that he is only entitled to part of the benefits from his late ex-
partners pension following his death in 2020.
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint. 
He issued his assessment of its merits to both parties 5 October 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint were set out in that assessment.
In brief, Mr N was named as the beneficiary of his late ex-partners pension on an 
expression of wish form. Following his death in 2020, Mr N made a claim to Scottish 
Widows. After receiving all the relevant information, Scottish Widows decided to pay Mr N a 
part share of the benefits; it paid the remaining benefits to other beneficiaries.
Mr N complained to Scottish Widows, and subsequently referred the matter to us. Our 
investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said it was for Scottish 
Widows, as the administrators of the plan, to decide who the benefits should be paid to. 
He said although the expression of wish form provided for Mr Ns ex-partner to choose who 
hed prefer the money to go to in the event of his death, and in what proportions, Scottish 
Widow wasnt bound to follow his preferences. He said that Scottish Widows just needed to 
take it into account when making its decision as to whom it was going to pay the benefits. 
The investigator referred to the explanation Scottish Widows had provided to Mr N about its 
decision making. It said the proceeds from the pension didnt form part of the late Mr Ps 
estate on his death. And that as scheme administrators, Scottish Widows had discretion over 
the final choice of beneficiary(s). It said it had to take the late Mr Ps wishes, as set out in the 
expression of wish form, into account. And that in making its decision it had to ask the right 
questions and take into account all relevant factors and disregard irrelevant factors. 
Scottish Widows obtained information from Mr N about the circumstances of Mr Ps death, 
his circumstances at the time and the other potential beneficiaries. The investigator said he 
was satisfied that Scottish Widows had considered all the relevant circumstances, including 
the wishes expressed by Mr Ns late ex-partner and the evidence provided by Mr N and the 
other potential beneficiaries. So, he didnt think that Scottish Widows had done anything 
wrong in paying an equal part share to Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said, although he was Mr Ps ex-
partner and they no longer lived together they very much had a relationship, and it was Mr 
Ps wishes that he received the full benefit from his pensions. He was listed as the sole 
beneficiary on the expression of wish form and so he didnt understand why this wasnt the 
case after hed died. 
Mr N provided further information regarding his relationship with Mr P and asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, Ill explain why.
Firstly, may I offer my condolences to Mr N. I can understand this is a very difficult time and 
he has expressed his frustration and disappointment in having to ask for what he understood 
to be his entitlement following the sad passing of Mr P.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr N and Scottish Widows. 
The key point to note here is that essentially it was for Scottish Widows as the scheme 
administrator to decide how the pension fund should be distributed following Mr Ps death. 
The payment of benefits was at the discretion of Scottish Widows, taking into account, 
amongst other things, the rules of the scheme. 
Where, as here, a decision involves the exercise of discretion, then it can only usually be 
challenged on certain somewhat limited grounds. As has been said, generally speaking, 
when exercising its discretion Scottish Widows needed to take into account all relevant 
factors and disregard irrelevant factors. And it needed to ask the right questions. It also had 
to construe the legal position correctly, and not come to a decision which was unreasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Sometimes the decision as to whom payment should be made will be straightforward. In 
other cases, the situation will be more complex, and the decision maker will have to weigh 
the facts and, in some cases, competing interests. Although the decision maker must, as I 
have said, take into account all relevant factors (and ignore irrelevant factors), it is for the 
decision maker to determine what weight to attach to a particular factor.
In this case, the form completed by Mr N, as the executor of Mr Ps estate made it clear that 
he was in fact, the ex-partner of Mr P. He was no longer living with Mr N and hadnt done so 
for around 18 months prior to his death. 
I appreciate the additional information Mr N has provided to this service to evidence his 
relationship with Mr P. It may be that he wishes to present this information to Scottish 
Widows to ask if it will reconsider its decision. But it remains the case that the scheme 
administrator has the full discretion to determine to whom benefits should be paid.It is entirely usual for a scheme administrator to check the personal position when a member 
has died, as things can, and do change, from when an expression of wish form is completed. 
It is indeed, for this reason that the scheme provision makes it clear that it asks for 
information to assist administrators in making their decision but that they are not bound by it, 
in the case of the expression of wish form. This is why Scottish Widows went on to ask Mr N 
for evidence of financial dependency on Mr P, before making a decision.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that Scottish Widows asked the wrong 
questions or that it didnt follow its process correctly. The proceeds from the pension fell 
outside of the late Mr Ps estate. Scottish Widows, having made appropriate enquiries, 
decided to pay the benefits in equal parts to Mr N and two other beneficiaries. However 
disappointing this may be to Mr N, based on what I have seen I cant fairly say that Scottish 
Widows has acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying its process and procedure.
I can also see Mr N felt he has received poor service and there was a delay to the claim 
settlement. Scottish Widows acknowledged this and paid Mr N £250.00 by way of an 
apology which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman