DRN-2815980
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she hadnt
authorised FTR to make. 
What happened
In December 2019, Ms B was told she had successful PPI claims with one of her lenders Ill
call N. Ms B said shed thought shed made the claims directly with N in March 2019. But
after the success of her claims she was asked by FTR to pay their success fees.
Ms B said shed always thought she was dealing with her own lender and hadnt wanted to
use FTRs services. She said she only realised that she wasnt dealing directly with her
lender in July 2019 after she called about missing pages for a PPI questionnaire. She said in
the call she was told she had to complete the missing pages and these would be sent to her.
As she didnt want FTR to work for her she said she didnt return the pages. And to make
sure her lender had a claim for mis-sold PPI she made a claim directly with N just before
the PPI deadline in August 2019.
Ms B also said the signature on FTRs letter of authority (LoA) wasnt hers. She complained
to FTR.
FTR said Ms B had signed the LoA in April 2019. And that their website was clear that they
werent the lender, but that they would make a PPI claim on her behalf to her lender. They
said Ms B had called them in July 2019 and it was explained to her then that FTR wasnt her
lender. They also told her shed signed a LoA and agreed to use their services in April 2019.
As Ms B hadnt cancelled her agreement with them, and as her claim was successful their
fee was justified.
Ms B wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Ms B had authorised FTR to pursue her mis-sold PPI
claim. And he said FTR had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions.
Ms B didnt agree, she reiterated that the signature wasnt hers. And asked why her lender
without her permission had provided information to a third party. She asked for an
ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021 that said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my
decision on what I consider most likely happened.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration as she doesnt think she authorised FTR to act on her
behalf. And that she hadnt responded to FTRs request for documents to be completed and
signed.
In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms B had authorised FTR to act on her
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Ms B.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for lender N in
April 2019. Ms B disputes she completed the on-line application and doesnt agree that she
signed and submitted it.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR has shown the screens Ms B would have
gone through. Ms B has said FTRs logo and Ns is similar, which is why she thought the
website was connected to her lender. But the logo on the web screen clearly says
FastTrack. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says, How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement
.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterix linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Ms B about her personal details and her
lenders. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms B has
given to us. And asks for Ms Bs lenders, which I can see from FTRs records was provided.
And as these are specific to Ms B, its unlikely FTR would have known this information. So,
Im satisfied she would have completed this stage of the journey.
On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with this information. And
FTR has said this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement for 
Ms B to add a date as this would be pre-populated. On balance, I consider Ms B to have
completed the application so Ive no reason to doubt she also signed the LoA.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the
LoA Ms B had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
FTRs terms and conditions go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
Ms B has said she called FTR in July 2019 thinking they were her lender, to explain shedonly received part of the PPI questionnaire. Unfortunately, the recording of this call is no
longer available. Ms Bs testimony is that she said she thought she was speaking to her
lender, and when she was told they were FTR she said she didnt want their services. FTR
said Ms B wasnt told she had to complete the form for FTR to be able to make her claim.
And it was explained to her that she had signed up with them in April 2019. They also said
the cancellation process was explained to her. But Ms B hadnt gone on to cancel the
agreement.
FTRs record of that call says:
Advised client that she just needs to complete page 8. Client thought that claim was direct
with lender. Advised that she signed on site 30/4.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the
information could be used to support the claim and strengthen the claim that the PPI policy
was mis-sold.
I know Ms B said she didnt return the documents sent to her by FTR but its not enough that
she simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling FTR she didnt want them to act
on her behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, I dont think this was sufficient
to consider shed cancelled the agreement.
But, despite having had the LoA signed in April 2019, FTRs records show they only
submitted the claims for Ms B in August 2019, I assume to make sure Ms B didnt miss the
August 2019 deadline. But PPI hadnt yet been identified and its only once PPI is identified
that FTRs terms and conditions say that Ms B authorises them to continue to provide their
services. So, in the July 2019 call that Ms B had with FTR, she would have still been within
the free PPI check period. And Id have expected FTR to have fully explained the situation to
Ms B. But neither version of this call suggests this happened. Neither can I see she was told
that her claim hadnt yet been submitted to her lender.
FTRs records show that in September 2019 they were told by N that PPI hadnt been
found. And the record goes on to say the claim would be cancelled unless Ms B provided
further evidence of having a PPI policy. Its not in dispute that Ms B didnt provide any further
evidence to support her claim.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
If no PPI is identified, this Agreement will come to an end, but this Agreement will
continue on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
I havent seen any record of Ms B being told that N hadnt found any PPI. And I dont think
it would be fair to keep an agreement open on the chance the lender later confirms that there
is PPI without any update being made to Ms B.
Ms B has said she made a claim directly with her lender in August 2019, just before the
deadline ended, and Ive no reason to doubt this.
In December 2019 N told both Ms B and FTR that Ms B had several successful claims. On
the letters sent to Ms B there isnt any reference made to FTR. So, I can understand why Ms
B would think this was because of the claim shed submitted. Ms B has said she was none
the wiser that FTR were still involved. And FTR didnt ask Ms B to pay their fee until March2020, some three months later.
N has told Ms B they started to investigate her claim from 16 August 2019, the date FTR
submitted her claim. And Ms Bs lender in keeping FTR updated about Ms Bs claims
accepted FTR represented Ms B in making her PPI claims, and they werent solely dealing
with Ms B. But despite this, I think Ms Bs agreement with FTR should have ended in
September 2019 when FTR were told PPI hadnt been found. And if FTR had acted fairly
and reasonably Id have expected them to tell Ms B about what had happened with her
claim. And especially given the call in July 2019 when shed doubted authorising them to act
on her behalf and questioned FTRs involvement. I think if theyd told her, in September
2019 about the response theyd had from N, Ms B would have been able to make an
informed choice about whether to provide the additional information needed to continue the
agreement. As Ms B never returned the PPI questionnaire, Im persuaded she wouldnt have
taken this option.
I dont think FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Ms B.So, I think they
should waive their success fee. They didnt update Ms B when PPI hadnt been found, and
as PPI hadnt been found they werent authorised to continue with their services. And so the
agreement should have ended in September 2019.
Responses to my provisional decision
 No further comments were sent to me to consider by Ms B or FTR.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim to waive 
their success fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman