The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with RCI. 
The car was handed back in July 2019. Following an inspection, RCI asked Mr S to pay 
damage charges.
Mr S disputed the charges. He felt the damage was within fair wear and tear. In its final 
response RCI said all the charges were payable.
Mr S complained to this service. He's particularly unhappy about the charges which relate to 
a cracked front seat.
During the investigation by this service RCI offered to remove a charge of £48 for a small 
dent to the right hand front door.
Our investigator said the offer was fair. She was satisfied that the rest of the damage was 
chargeable because it was outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr S didn't agree. He said he disputed the charge for the front seat. He said he'd brought the 
damage to the attention of the dealer during the first 12 months when the car went in for a 
service and the dealer told him not to worry as it wouldn't be classed as damage. Mr S said 
he hadn't intended to damage the car and that the leather had worn because he'd used the 
drivers seat as normal. He didn't think he should have to pay if a sub-standard leather had 
been used. He also said he'd returned the car with 20,000 fewer miles on the clock than he'd 
contracted for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customer's 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
DRN-1330629I've looked at the inspection report. Because Mr S has clarified that he's only disputing the 
charge for the front seat, I've focussed on this. But to be thorough I've considered all the 
damage which Mr S has been charged for.
The damage to the leather is clearly visible. It's cracked and worn. There's no suggestion 
that Mr S has done this deliberately. But I'm satisfied, having looked at the photos showing 
the extent of the damage and taking into account the relevant guidelines, that the damage 
exceeds fair wear and tear.
I understand the point which Mr S makes about the car having significantly less mileage than 
he agreed. But this doesn't change the fact that there's damage to the car which will either 
need to be repaired, or which will affect the resale value of the car. I'm unable to set off any 
retained value due to lower mileage against the cost of damage.
I appreciate that Mr S feels that the charges are unfair, especially the charges for the seat. 
However, I'm satisfied that the damage goes beyond fair wear and tear and that the charges 
have been applied fairly.
Save for the reduction offered by RCI, the charges are payable by Mr S.
Putting things right
RCI should put things right by waiving the charge for the small dent in the right hand front 
door.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited must 
waive the charge relating to the dent in the right hand front door. The rest of the charges are 
playable by Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman