DRN-3410106
The complaint
Mr L complained that Loans.co.uk Ltd, (LCUK), mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in March 2022, saying I was minded not 
to uphold Mr Ls complaint anymore. However, I gave the parties involved another chance to 
tell me about anything else they wanted me to consider. I said I would then make a final 
decision.
Ive had responses from both parties and neither has anything else to add so I am now 
issuing a final decision. This should be read in conjunction with the PD I issued on 8 March 
2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. This is because, as I explained in my PD, Im only 
able to consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria set out in law and our case-
handling rules. At the time of the PPI sale, LCUK was covered by the Mortgage Code 
Arbitration Scheme  MCAS. It also went on to be covered by our Service in October 2004. 
This means that I can consider Mr Ls complaint against LCUK but I have to consider it in the 
same way MCAS would have done. 
MCAS could only consider whether and to what extent a firm breached its obligations to a 
customer under the Mortgage Code. The Code was mainly focussed on mortgage advice 
(and secured lending) and good lending practice, rather than the sale of insurance. So, the 
only obligations it placed on firms when selling PPI were, in summary:
  
to give a description of the insurance it could provide;  
to say whether it was a condition of the mortgage that PPI was taken out; 
to say whether PPI had to be arranged by that firm; and
to give a general description of the cost of PPI
As I said in my PD of March 2022, I can only consider a limited menu of things when 
deciding whether or not this product was mis-sold to him because this case involved a 
secured loan. So, Im afraid, these limitations do mean that I am not upholding this 
complaint. Taking account of what I know from Mr Ls description of events and also what I 
know about what probably happened, I think the four bullet points above would have been 
covered during the sale. I think Mr L would have been given the option and told he didnt 
have to take out the PPI if he didnt want to.
As neither party has responded to my PD with further points, I am not upholding the 
complaint, for the reasons I comprehensively outlined a few weeks ago.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Loans.co.uk Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman