DRN-1957963
The complaint
Mr L has complained that he was charged twice for a transaction by Barclays Bank Plc 
trading as Barclaycard.
 
What happened
On 1 December 2019, Mr L used his Barclaycard to purchase a package holiday through an 
online supplier. Mr L only wanted to buy one holiday package. When booking, he received 
messages on the online suppliers website saying there were systems problems. He 
received emails from the supplier which said hed bought two identical package holidays. 
Each had different holiday booking reference numbers. Mr Ls Barclaycard account was 
charged twice with different amounts. Each transaction had a different reference number. Mr 
L complained to the supplier which said it would not refund the booking as set out in its 
terms and conditions. 
Mr L then said that Barclaycard should have considered these to be duplicate transactions 
and one should have been declined or refunded. He called Barclaycard in December 2019 
and asked for a refund of one of the transactions. He considered Barclaycard to be jointly 
and severally liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). He asked why his 
Barclaycard online statement had showed several £0 transactions on 1 December 2019. Mr 
L wondered if Barclaycards systems were working properly. He said that he had 
experienced a duplicate transaction with another retailer recently which had been refunded. 
The hotel in the resort told him the booking had been cancelled and the money refunded to 
the online supplier. 
Barclaycard investigated the disputed transaction. They said that as the transactions were 
for different amounts with two different references, it couldnt treat them as duplicates and a 
refund wouldnt be made. They said Mr L should speak to the online supplier of the holiday. 
Barclaycard apologised that they had wrongly advised Mr L that one of the transactions 
could be cancelled when he first called them. They paid compensation of £100 in respect of 
this. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us and two of our investigators looked into it separately. They 
said that Barclaycard had done nothing wrong. Because there were two transaction 
references, with two different amounts, these couldnt have been treated as duplicate 
transactions. They said that Barclaycards terms and conditions meant that only future 
transactions could be cancelled, whereas the payments to the online supplier were 
immediately authorised and could not be stopped.  
Our investigators said that Barclaycard had confirmed that its systems were operating 
normally and the £0 transactions shown were caused by the merchant checking that the 
card was active by requesting a nil value authorisation  which was a standard part of a 
process here. The other duplicate transaction mentioned by Mr L had been refunded by the 
supplier of the goods and not Barclaycard. The investigators confirmed that a refund from 
the supplier hadnt been received by Barclaycard. Section 75 of the CCA did not apply as it 
is for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the merchant. They said Mr L must 
speak to the online supplier to resolve his complaint.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr L is very unhappy with whats happened here and I can see why. But this 
service can only investigate a complaint against Barclaycard, not the online supplier. And 
looking at things impartially, I dont think itd be fair to say that Barclaycard should return 
either of the payments to him. Nor can I see any other reason to hold Barclaycard liable for 
what happened here. 
Its worth saying that Mr L has provided this service with a lot of information and has 
questioned many aspects of Barclaycards processes and systems. Ive read and considered 
everything hes sent and told us, but Ill be focusing on what I think is the crux of this 
complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
The sequence of events is not in dispute, there were two separate transactions of a similar, 
but different amount, with two separate card reference numbers and two holiday booking 
numbers. Mr L says that because the transactions were for the same holiday, departing on 
the same date and to the same destination, Barclaycard should have declined one of them 
or later refunded one by chargeback to the supplier.
Barclaycards terms and conditions say When you make a transaction from your account, 
were not able to change or cancel it unless you withdraw your approval. You can only do 
this if the transaction is approved for a future date (for example, if you set up a regular 
payment) by contacting us or the retailer by the end of the business day before the 
transaction is due to be made.
In the case of the transactions in question, these would have looked to Barclaycard like they 
were authorised by Mr L. So Barclaycard agreed to pay them immediately when the payment 
request was made by the supplier. This was in line with Barclaycards terms and conditions. 
Barclaycard wouldnt have received any detail about Mr Ls holiday when authorising the 
payments beyond the amounts being requested, the merchant being paid and any relevant 
reference numbers. Mr L has said that Barclaycard should have noticed that the payments 
were unusual, but in the circumstances here the amounts were different with different 
reference numbers. So they would have looked like separate payments for separate 
purchases. As far as Barclaycard was concerned, Mr L could have bought two different 
holidays from the supplier. So I can understand why Barclaycard accepted and processed 
these payments as it did.
I have then considered how Barclaycard has dealt with this matter after Mr L reported it and I 
think its done so fairly. Barclaycard has explained why Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act doesnt apply here and its explanation is a fair one. The problem that Mr L has with the 
supplier isnt that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  which are the 
circumstances in which Barclaycard could be held liable for Mr Ls claim here. And 
Barclaycard has said that it hasnt raised a chargeback for similar reasons, where it would be unlikely to be successful. A chargeback like this is a voluntary process and so Barclaycard 
doesnt have to raise one just because a customer asks it to. In the circumstances, I can see 
why it didnt do that where the payments were made as they were here.
I realise that will be a disappointment to Mr L and I can see that this will be an incredibly 
frustrating situation for him. I make no comment on whether or not he has a valid claim 
against the supplier here, as that isnt in this services remit. But even if the supplier has 
made a mistake, I havent seen anything that makes me think that Barclaycard should take 
any further action here.
Mr L has referred to his research into similar situations where customers have got their 
money back. Ive read this alongside everything else hes sent us, but I can only consider the 
circumstances of his individual complaint to us and having done so I cant see any reason I 
can fairly say that Barclaycard should refund him either of the payments. Barclaycard has 
said it paid Mr L £100 for the confusion and upset caused by its advice when he first 
reported the issue and I think thats fair. But I wont be telling Barclaycard that it needs to do 
any more than that.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman