DRN-3314786
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allay Claims Ltd are asking him to pay their success fee(s) for payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr C said hes being asked to pay fees for PPI claims he said he hadnt asked Allay to 
make. He said he was being threatened with being taken to court for the recovery of these 
fees. He complained to Allay
Allay said Mr C initially made an enquiry with them in February 2019 but he didnt sign a 
letter of authority (LoA) for them to act on his behalf, so they didnt provide their claims 
service at that time. But in July 2019, they said Mr C again enquired about their services and 
this time completed an online application and signed the LoA. They said theyd acted in good 
faith in submitting this to his lenders, Ill call B and M pursuing PPI claims for him based 
on the information provided to them in the online application. They said theyd updated Mr C 
when PPI had been found, and theyd continued to keep him updated about his PPI claims. 
Allay said Mr C had also completed a PPI questionnaire to support his claim with M. In 
November 2019, both lenders told Mr C and Allay that his claim had been successful. As Mr 
C hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, Allay said their fees were justified.
Mr C wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr C had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as the 
claims were successful Allays fees were justified.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt signed any agreement with Allay and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from him instructing them to act 
on his behalf. Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Cs claims was because of the 
submissions they made for him. Firstly, Mr C has said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. 
But its not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts, so I wont 
comment on this part of Mr Cs complaint. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. I need to determine whether I think its more likely than 
not Mr C had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I consider he has, whether 
Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted 
fairly and reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim 
being auto converted.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate to some of the personal details Mr C has given 
this service. I can see Mr Cs contact details differ for his address and mobile phone number 
to those hes given to us but his email address is the same. The application also needed 
details of Mr Cs lenders, and these details were also provided. 
Allay said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to progress. 
And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated 
with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted 
without a signature being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent on 
submission. As an LoA was submitted to Allay Im satisfied this process was followed.
So Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In August 2019, I can see from Allays records that both B and M  told them Mr C had 
PPI on accounts hed with them. Allays records also show they emailed Mr C, to the email 
address he has given to us, to notify him that PPI had been found and to confirm his claim 
had been submitted in line with their terms and conditions. So, from this point, Id consider 
the free PPI check had ended and Allay would have been providing their claims service.
PPI being found didnt mean Mr Cs claim would be successful as it needed to be considered 
by both lenders whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. The emails sent by Allay in 
August 2019 included a link for Mr C to complete a PPI questionnaire. And I can see from 
Allays records that the PPI questionnaire was completed and returned to them and 
submitted to M the day after the email containing the link was sent. For B the claim was 
auto converted based on the submission of the LoA.
Allays records show they sent messages to the mobile phone number theyd on record to 
tell Mr C that PPI had been found and to update him about his claims. As this mobile phone 
number differs from the number hes given to us I cant know if these messages were 
received by him. But I can see that the same information was also sent by Allay to Mr C in 
August, September and October 2019 to the same email address hes given to us. 
So, I have no reason to doubt Mr Cs receipt of the emails sent by Allay. And I cant hold 
Allay responsible if Mr C didnt read them.In November 2019, both lenders copied Allay into notifications theyd sent to Mr C to say his 
claim with them was successful and the compensation they offered to put things right. And 
B also made clear reference in their notification that their decision to uphold the claim that 
the PPI had been mis-sold was based on information supplied by Allay. I think this shows 
that both lenders recognised Allay as Mr Cs representative and that they werent dealing 
solely with Mr C. 
I will now look to see whether Mr C asked Allay to stop working for him.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain the various ways this can be done, telephone, email, downloading a 
cancellation form from Allays website or by writing to them. 
Mr C said he didnt have the opportunity to opt out of Allays services as he hadnt authorised 
them to act for him, so he didnt know they were doing this work. But as outlined above I can 
see that Allay emailed Mr C in August, September and October 2019 before any redress 
was awarded. And in line with their terms and conditions from the point Mr C was told PPI 
had been found he would have had 14 days to cancel the agreement without any cost to 
him. 
Allays records show they emailed Mr C to let him know PPI had been found on an account 
hed with M on 6 August 2019. They also emailed him on 8 August 2019 to tell him PPI had 
been found on an account hed with B. And that theyd submitted his PPI complaint to both 
lenders. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from those dates. So, Mr C would 
have had up to 20 and 22 August 2019 respectively to cancel the agreement. I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr C asked Allay to cancel the agreement either within or after the 14-day 
cooling off period. 
Neither have I seen any evidence that Mr C asked Allay to stop or question them as to why 
they were contacting him when they emailed him updates about his claims. And by not 
telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end or after the 14-day 
cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their claims service. 
The agreement Mr C had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr Cs claims were 
submitted by Allay before the August 2019 deadline, and the claims were successful. I think 
Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr C will be disappointed by my decision but taking all the above into account Im not 
upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely that  Mr C had authorised Allay to act on his 
behalf in making mis-sold PPI claims and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the 
claims were successful, I think its fair and reasonable for Allay to charge their fee(s).My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman