DRN-3726325
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a unit linked whole of life policy.
Mrs T is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
In 2000, Mrs T received advice from Zurich to take out a whole of life policy which provided 
£20,000 of critical illness and life cover for a premium of around £32 per month. The policy 
was set up on a lifetime basis which meant it was designed to stay the same throughout 
Mrs Ts life. Its recorded that Mrs T wanted the cover for her mortgage and to provide for her 
family in the event of her death or suffering from a critical illness.
Mrs Ts CMC complains that this was unsuitable and that she shouldve been sold a 
standalone critical illness policy. It believes Zurich sold this policy to Mrs T for commission 
purposes.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the documents from the point of sale 
suggest Mrs T wanted protection for her remaining mortgage as well as for her family and 
that this policy was suitable for her needs.
Mrs Ts CMC disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. It said that it 
didnt understand why Mrs T would want life cover beyond her retirement age when her 
children would be independent. It also said there were no alternatives considered. The CMC 
also mentioned that Mrs T wasnt told about reviews. As no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs T received the advice she was 42 years old, employed and had two dependent 
children. She had ten years remaining on her £20,000 interest-only mortgage. She had a 
joint life policy with her husband and a joint endowment policy to cover the mortgage. Its 
recorded that she was looking for critical illness cover for this amount with additional life 
cover for family protection.
Mrs T complains that she ought to have been sold a standalone critical illness policy, but that 
doesnt make this recommendation unsuitable. My role here isnt to look at what the most 
suitable advice was, but rather whether the advice Zurich gave was suitable for Mrs Ts 
circumstances and I think that it was.
Its clear from the suitability letter that other options were discussed, but that Mrs T was 
happy to include life cover as it was a small additional premium. And whilst I understand she 
already had life cover, its not unusual for someone to want to provide a lump sum for their 
family if they pass away, even after retirement. Mrs T didnt have any critical illness cover, 
and this policy met that need at least for the remainder of her mortgage as the first review 
didnt take place until ten years after the policy started. The policy was set up on a basis that 
was designed to provide the same level of cover for the same premiums for the duration of 
her life and it was within Mrs Ts monthly budget.
Theres nothing to suggest that having life cover in addition to the critical illness cover was 
unsuitable for Mrs Ts circumstances, and the evidence suggests that Mrs T wanted to 
proceed on this basis. I can see the life cover cost around £3 of the £32 monthly premiums. I 
think its likely Mrs T was happy to include this additional benefit for this amount when it fell 
within her budget as she had a family that the lump sum could be left to. The mortgage had 
another ten years to run, and this cover was guaranteed for ten years. It provided her with 
additional life cover as well as the critical illness cover she needed. Ive not seen enough to 
suggest it was unsuitable for her circumstances.
Mrs Ts CMC mentioned, after the Investigators view, that Mrs T wasnt told about the 
reviewable nature of the policy. I cant see this formed any part of the original complaint to 
Zurich or the complaint that was referred to this service, so Ive not considered this as part of 
this complaint. But Ive concluded that this particular policy wasnt unsuitable for Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time it was sold to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman