DRN-3144745
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Parmenion Capital Partners LLP when 
transferring his Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr B asked for his ISA to be transferred from Parmenion to another provider. 
There were errors and delays which meant the transfer took longer than it should have, so 
Mr B complained. 
Parmenion upheld the complaint agreeing they were at fault for the delay. To put things right 
they performed calculations back to when they thought the transfer shouldve taken place. 
They said that because of the delay Mr B was financially advantaged by what happened and 
didnt suffer any financial loss.
Mr B disagreed with the dates used for the calculations and was unhappy with the overall 
level of service he had received so brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into what happened and thought that the date used to perform the 
calculations was fair and agreed there was no financial loss. For the inconvenience of what 
happened, and the service Mr B received, they thought Parmenion should pay him £150, 
which they agreed to pay. 
Mr B remained unhappy saying the calculations should be done at an earlier date. He also 
said that what happened caused him unnecessary stress and didnt accept the £150 our 
investigator recommended. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything thats been provided even if I 
dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature 
of our service.
All parties agree that Parmenion made mistakes and caused a delay. So I wont go into any 
detail about how things happened, rather I will concentrate on what I think Parmenion should 
do to put things right. 
Mr B said he thought the calculations for redress should be done from a date a few days 
earlier than they were. And looking at what happened I agree an earlier date would be fairer. 
So I asked Parmenion to provide calculations from that earlier date. These calculations 
showed that there still was no financial loss due to the delays.  
Mr B reviewed the new calculations and still remained unhappy saying there were 
differences in values. He also said that the £150 came across as an insult considering the 
mistakes that were made and the stress the situation caused.
Having reviewed the calculations Im satisfied theyre correct. The differences in value Mr B 
pointed out is because the calculations didnt include cash held on the account nor two 
suspended property funds which Parmenion were unable to sell. Im also satisfied that the 
calculations show there was no financial loss due to the delays. Whilst I know that what 
happened was frustrating, and Parmenion admitted they made mistakes, Mr B wasnt 
financially disadvantaged by the delay.
Ive also thought about the £150 our Investigator recommended as payment for the 
inconvenience caused by Parmenion, and I agree this is a fair way of resolving the 
complaint. Mr B was put to the trouble of contacting Parmenion more times than he should 
have, and I can understand his worry about the mistakes and delays. But considering 
everything that happened I think the amount of £150 is fair and reasonable.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied there was no financial 
loss because of the delays, and that £150 is a fair payment for the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should pay Mr B £150 for the inconvenience caused by 
what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should pay Mr B £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman