DRN-1431286
 
The complaint
Miss S and Mrs S complain about two money transfers that National Westminster Bank Plc 
failed to make, and problems Miss S had with the service she received from NatWest.
What happened
This is a joint account held by Miss S and Mrs S, but this complaint has been brought by 
Miss S, so Ill address this decision to her. 
Miss S said she rang NatWest in early May to ask it to move some money. It said it couldnt 
do that over the phone, and told her to go into a branch. She said NatWest failed to mention 
that shed need ID, although she did. 
Miss S went into the branch the next day, and had to queue for some time. When she was 
eventually served, she said NatWest wouldnt do the transfer, or allow her to remove the full 
amount that she wanted in cash, because she didnt have ID. She asked to move the money 
to an account with a different bank. That was the only card she had with her, she was then 
planning to move the money again to a different account, and make the transfer from there. 
Miss S said that the cashier told her the transfer had been actioned and the money was 
there right away, but it wasnt, and she didnt know where her money had gone. 
Miss S said the problem was that NatWests cashier had input the wrong account number. 
The money was eventually returned to her account, but she was then too late to make the 
overseas transfer she wanted to do. She said this meant she incurred additional costs. 
Miss S said that shed managed to transfer funds to a relative, but he became extremely 
seriously unwell while the transfer was being made. He wasnt able to pass the money on to 
its intended destination, and Miss S had great difficulty getting it back, as well as the stress 
of worrying about her relative. 
Miss S said she needed to make another transfer in late June. She rang NatWest, and a 
staff member said that she could do this through online banking. The transfer took some 
time, but then she was told it was done. The money was taken out of her account, but it 
didnt get to where it was supposed to go. Miss S made a complaint then. A couple of hours 
later, she was told that the money hadnt left NatWest after all.
Miss S went into a branch after she found out the transfer hadnt been made. She was very 
unhappy with how she was treated there. She wasnt offered a seat although she was having 
difficulty walking. And she said a staff member was extremely rude to her in a private room. 
Miss S wanted NatWest to apologise, and to pay the extra costs shed incurred. 
NatWest said that on the first occasion, Miss S couldnt transfer the amount she wanted 
without ID. It could transfer a smaller amount for her. It said shed been asked to check and 
confirm those details before the money was sent. It initially paid £50 to make up for the problems shed had trying to make her second payment. It then paid her an additional £50 
for the poor service she said shed received. It wouldnt pay the extra costs she told it about.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Miss S had 
provided evidence that shed incurred extra costs because her money didnt arrive on 10 
May. But that was the day she was sending the money. Our investigator said international 
payments take two to four working days, so the payment wouldnt have got to its intended 
destination on time even without the problems shed experienced. Our investigator thought it 
was reasonable for NatWest to ask for ID. It was following its internal procedures to protect 
Miss Ss money from fraudsters. 
Our investigator said it was unfortunate that incorrect account details were input by the 
cashier, but Miss S had been shown the account details the payment was going to, and had 
approved the payment. Our investigator didnt think NatWest had to do more than apologise 
for the length of time Miss S had waited to be served.
Our investigator said that NatWest blocked Miss Ss second transfer because it was an 
unusual transaction for her account. She thought that was fair, as it again followed its own 
procedures to protect customers from fraud. 
Our investigator said NatWest wouldnt have known about the recent surgery which meant 
Miss S was limping. She didnt think it acted unfairly. Branch staff took her into a separate 
rom for privacy, and she was able to withdraw the money she wanted. 
Our investigator thought that NatWest had compensated Miss S fairly for failing to tell her 
abut the blocked payment, and for the poor service she felt shes received in the branch. 
Miss S strongly disagreed. She felt her complaint had been misunderstood, and sent us a 
detailed breakdown of what had happened, along with further commentary. Ive sought to 
reflect this above. Miss S wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S told us it was NatWests fault that the money didnt arrive at its intended destination 
in time. She said if shed been told she needed ID, or if the money hadnt been sent to the 
wrong place by NatWests cashier, then she wouldnt have incurred further costs due to the 
money being late. 
Miss S has shown us evidence that the payment was due overseas on 10 May, and that 
shes incurred extra costs because it wasnt there on time. She tried to make her withdrawal 
and a transfer to another account, in a branch of NatWest, on 10 May. 
Our investigator said that both NatWest and the bank that Miss S was sending the money to, 
cant do an international transfer where the money arrives the same day. So she didnt think 
that Miss S couldve got the money there by the time it was due anyway. 
Miss S told us that the money couldve been paid the same day. She said she had a 
complicated arrangement in place, which involved the person she owed the money to 
waiting at the home of a relative. That relative was going to pay him in cash once her money 
reached the relatives account. She said that meant it could be done the same day. But 
because her other bank said that transfers to overseas accounts do take two to four working days, and because the account she told us she was sending money to does seem to be an 
overseas account, I think its more likely than not that the transfer could not have been done 
the same day. So I dont think its likely that the money wouldve got there in time, even if 
Miss S had been told to take ID into the branch, or if the transfer hadnt gone astray. For 
those reasons, I dont think NatWest has to pay any additional costs that Miss S has incurred 
because the payment was late.
Miss S also told us she was very worried for some time about where her money had gone. It 
had actually bounced back into her account the same day. But she said she didnt find that 
out for some time. She felt it was the cashiers fault that the money went astray, and she 
said she hadnt been asked to check the details. But because Miss S did confirm the 
transfer, I do think its more likely than not that Miss S was given the opportunity to check the 
transfer details by the cashier. And fortunately the money was quickly returned. I dont think 
its solely NatWests fault if this money didnt get where it was intended to go.
Miss S said she tried in June to make another transfer online, but it was blocked. She wasnt 
told about that promptly. I do think she shouldve been told.
Once Miss S realised her transfer had failed, she went into a branch to move her money. 
She was unhappy with how she was treated on this visit. I wasnt at the branch, so I cant 
comment directly on what happened there. But like our investigator, I think its unlikely that 
NatWests staff would be aware of the reasons why Miss S was particularly uncomfortable. I 
know that Miss S has told us that a staff member was very rude to her, but I can hear on a 
call Miss S had that NatWest apologised profusely for any poor service she received. And it 
has paid compensation. It paid £50 when she first complained, then increased that to a total 
of £100 once shed told it more about the impact this had on her. 
Ive explained I dont think its NatWests fault that Miss S has faced increased costs. And I 
think it has tried to make up for the instances of poor service that Ive identified here. I think 
the payment NatWest has made, of £100, is in line with what I wouldve awarded in this case 
if NatWest hadnt already paid that. Because NatWest has already done so, I dont think it 
needs to do more now. 
I know that Miss S will be disappointed, but that means I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman