DRN-2150906
The complaint
Mr O complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined his total 
permanent disability claims.
What happened
In 2016 Mr O set up two life and critical illness policies with Legal and General that also 
provide a total and permanent disability benefit. Mr O fell from a roof in June 2018 and 
suffered bilateral calcaneal fractures (broken heel bones). As a result of the injuries, Mr O 
made claims for total and permanent disability under his policies. 
Legal and General declined the claims in February 2020. They referred to the policy 
definition for total and permanent disability as being unable to do your own occupation ever 
again. They said this meant Mr O would need to be unable to perform the duties which are 
normally required for, and/or form a significant and integral part of his occupation, that 
cannot be omitted or modified. And that own occupation means the persons trade, 
profession or type of work but isnt a specific job with any particular employer and is 
irrespective of location and availability. 
Legal and General went on to explain that Mr Os job title is that of a Managing Director and 
that while Mr O says he is involved in the physical and manual handling aspects of his firms 
manufacturing, this is not a common (or substantive) feature of a Managing Directors role. 
And, as per the application forms in which Mr O declared his role as office work, the role is 
predominantly sedentary with occasional driving for external client meetings. They also 
added that theyd referred the claim to their Company Medical Officer (CMO) who concluded 
that it would be unlikely Mr O would be prevented from performing the normal duties of a 
Managing Director. And so, as the evidence confirms Mr O is currently at work and 
demonstrates he can perform most (if not all) duties of a typical Managing Director, as per 
the definition, he couldnt be considered as totally prevented from performing in his pre-
disability occupation. Furthermore, Legal and General said there was no evidence to show 
Mr O had sought or exhausted all treatment options and so it also couldnt be demonstrated 
he met the permanence threshold.
A third-party solicitor, acting on behalf of Mr O, complained to Legal and General about their 
decision to decline his claims. They said the available medical evidence demonstrates 
permanent disability as the report provided by Mr S  the surgeon who treated Mr O  says:
He cannot operate the machinery in his plant due to the requirement for long periods 
of standing. He cannot perform any heavy lifting. Stairs remain a problem for him, 
and as the company office is up a flight of stairs, and the toilets and plant machinery 
are on the floor below, he finds his ability to participate in his normal daily routine 
limited. 
He is able to sit and perform paperwork, but this is not the sum total of his work 
activities as he was previously an active participant in the shop floor processes.
They further explained that Mr Os firm doesnt have the resources, whether staffing or 
financial, to enable Mr O to have a wholly desk based role and wouldnt be able to support 
him in such a limited capacity. And that Mr O maintained an involvement in the operational, 
manufacturing and management of stocks and logistics tasks as Managing Director. So, the 
solicitors said his role has never been solely desk or administrative/sales based. 
The solicitors argued Mr Os claim shouldnt be judged on his job title but, instead, the 
substance of his job. They explained Mr Os job was the Managing Director of a company 
with eight other employees which is very different to that of a director for a multi-national 
corporation  and therefore wouldnt involve the same responsibilities or duties. Because of 
this, they said Legal and General need to determine whether or not Mr O could carry out his 
occupation as the Managing Director of a company with 9 employees in the manufacturing 
and engineering sector. And this could only be achieved by reference to Mr Os pre-injury 
duties in his role and whether he can still perform them. The solicitors also disputed Legal 
and Generals view that Mr O hadnt explored further treatment. They said Mr S opinion was 
clear in saying his condition was permanent, with no treatment available to resolve it.
Legal and General responded to the complaint but their position didnt change. They 
recognised the severity of Mr Os injuries. But they said the policy definition of total 
permanent disability is clear and that it confirms own occupation is not a specific job with a 
particular employer. They therefore assessed Mr Os occupation as a Managing Director and 
considered his ability to perform the duties theyd expect one would usually undertake. So, 
although Mr Os condition might be permanent, they said this didnt mean he will 
permanently be unable to perform within his role as a Managing Director. 
Legal and General also referred to surveillance of Mr O that showed hed attended the work 
premises on three consecutive days and spent on average six hours per day there. They felt 
it was reasonable to assume from this he continues to carry out the key tasks of a Managing 
Director. Furthermore, although Mr O had told them he was unable to play golf anymore, his 
social media page showed hed spent an afternoon golfing with a friend and client. And, 
contrary to the solicitors saying Mr O had to withdraw from the game after a small number of 
holes, the comments on the social media post infer hed won the game and so this would 
suggest a full game was completed. Legal and General therefore remained of the view that 
Mr O can carry out the substantial and material duties of a Managing Director.
Furthermore, Legal and General also said theyd need to consider whether further treatment 
options were available to improve Mr Os functioning or his pain. For example, they noted Mr 
O was referred to physiotherapy and for pain management but that he didnt attend these. 
And although these treatments wouldnt cure his condition, it could help manage the pain 
and in turn improve his level of function. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think the claim had been unfairly declined. In short, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude  based on the medical evidence and 
workplace assessment that was carried out  that Mr O will never be able to be a Managing 
Director again.  
Mr O disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I go on to explain my decision, Id like to assure Mr O that I dont underestimate the 
impact the injuries hes suffered have had on him. It isnt in dispute what happened was a life 
changing event for Mr O. But what I must consider here is whether Legal and General has 
acted unfairly, or outside the terms of Mr Os policies, by declining his total and permanent 
disability claims. And, having carefully considered this, I dont think they have and Ill explain 
why.
Both Mr Os policies provide cover for total and permanent disability. The definition of total 
and permanent disability that applies for these policies is own occupation (not Specified 
Work Tasks). This says:
Total and permanent disability  unable to do your own occupation ever again.
Loss of the physical or mental ability through an illness or injury to the extent that the 
life assured is unable to do the material and substantial duties of their own 
occupation ever again. The material and substantive duties are those normally 
required for, and/or form a significant and integral part of, the performance of the life 
assureds own occupation that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified.
Own occupation means your trade, profession or type of work you do for profit or 
pay. It is not a specific job with any particular employer and is irrespective of location 
and availability. 
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout 
life with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or the life 
assured expects to retire. 
For the above definition, disabilities for which the relevant specialists cannot give a 
clear prognosis are not covered.
Mr O says he is unable to do his pre-accident job as he can no longer, amongst other things, 
carry out manual handling or be involved in the manufacturing process. This is also 
supported by the worksite assessment Mr O undertook in December 2019 which says he 
demonstrated limited ability to complete most of the key tasks of his pre-injury role and that 
he was unfit to complete any of the warehouse related tasks. 
Although Ive taken this in to account, Im satisfied the definition for total and permanent 
disability under Mr Os policies makes it clear he must be unable to do the material and 
substantive duties normally required of his occupation  in this case, that of a Managing 
Director. And that this is not specific to his current job or employment. Because of this, while 
Mr O may not be able to carry out all the duties he previously undertook before the accident, 
Ive considered whether its been sufficiently demonstrated Mr O is unable to carry out the 
material and substantive duties normally expected of a Manager Director (and which cannot 
reasonably be omitted or modified). 
Its not disputed that Mr Os mobility has been affected by the injuries he sustained. It seems 
to be commonly accepted he struggles to walk or stand for more than 10 minutes and that 
stairs remain a problem for him. But Ive also taken in to consideration that the worksite 
assessment said the following:
Mr O may be able to complete most of his desk-based duties with suitable 
adaptations and with further support. For example, a printer at his desk or by using a 
walkie talkie to communicate down to the warehouse.

Based on the observations within the assessment, Mr O was able to sustain the 
office-based, sitting duties of his role well.
Should he have the opportunity to complete a solely office based role in the future, it 
was likely that he would be able to sustain a role of this nature, based on the 
observations and symptom reports.
Mr S also confirmed that Mr O is able to sit and perform paperwork. From this, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that Mr O can fulfil a role that would be predominately desk based. 
Im aware Mr O has explained he was a hands-on Managing Director and so his role 
differed significantly to those of a traditional Managing Director role. But the test here is 
against the material and substantive duties normally expected of a Manager Director. And I 
dont think Legal and Generals view of the Managing Director role, that being performing 
manufacturing or production duties isnt typically considered a material and substantial part 
of it, is unreasonable. But rather, it is largely a sedentary position that may, for example, also 
involve occasional travelling for client meetings. 
Mr O says he wouldnt be able to work in this capacity at his firm as the office is on the top 
floor and the toilets are on the ground floor. This would mean negotiating the stairs several 
times a day which wouldnt be possible as hed be in pain and exhausted from the effort. 
Furthermore, there wouldnt be enough admin work for him to carry out such a role and that 
he would always need an assistant to be with him so this wouldnt be commercially viable. 
Again, while Im sympathetic to Mr Os position, the policy definition clearly says that own 
occupation is not a specific job with any particular employer. So, although I understand it 
may not be practical for Mr O to work in a more desk-based capacity at his current firm, Im 
not persuaded he wouldnt be able to fulfil the material and substantive duties that are 
normally required of a Managing Director elsewhere (or with reasonable adjustments being 
made at his current workplace and/or the ability to work from home). It therefore follows that 
I think Legal and General has fairly concluded Mr O remains able to do his own occupation.
On a final note, there has also been some dispute as to Mr Os ability to improve his 
functionality and whether hes demonstrated that hes met the permanence threshold 
required under the policy terms. I understand Mr O has referred to medical advice which 
says his condition wont improve and that it will most likely worsen due to the likelihood hell 
develop debilitating arthritis. Its clear this condition will impact Mr O going forward and, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt look as though it will significantly improve. That said, as Im not 
persuaded Mr O is currently unable to carry out the material and substantive duties of those 
normally required for the Managing Director role, I see no benefit in covering its permanency 
at this time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr O but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Legal and General has acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policies when 
declining the claims. It is however worth nothing that should Mr Os condition worsen he is 
free to submit further claims to Legal and General if he feels he would meet the required 
definition at a later date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'DellOmbudsman