DRN-2971742
The complaint
Miss M says Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank accepted her application 
for a credit card account irresponsibly. Shes said it didnt offer protection to her at a time 
when she was struggling due to a mental health condition. And it shouldnt have given her 
the lending as it was unaffordable for her.
What happened
Miss M took out a credit card online in February 2019. The credit limit on the account was 
£250. Miss M made around three payments of £25 to the account after it was opened but as 
no further payments were made, it was passed to a third party to collect the outstanding debt 
on Tesco Banks behalf. The account has since been defaulted.
At the time of the application, Miss Ms told us she struggled from poor mental health and 
was suicidal. And the credit card debt put her in a more difficult position.
Miss Ms said she couldnt afford the lending when it was given to her. Shes highlighted that 
she had a low credit score and shes said around ten of her existing accounts had been 
defaulted by other lenders or had been passed to debt collection agencies. Shes given us a 
copy of her credit file and current account statements from around the time to show this.
Tesco Bank says it relied on information held with credit reference agencies and other 
sources to assess Miss Ms affordability of the credit card. It said the type of account Miss M 
applied for is for customers who need to build up their credit rating. It said it identified Miss M 
had defaults but it accepted her application as they were from several years before. It also 
identified she had over £11,000 in unsecured debt which it didnt think made this borrowing 
unaffordable. Tesco Bank has said it wasnt aware of Miss Ms mental health and it asked for 
further medical evidence to support what shed said.
As things werent resolved, Miss M asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Tesco Bank wasnt required to ask questions about 
Miss Ms state of mind and he thought the affordability checks it carried out were reasonable 
considering the amount she was borrowing. As Miss M didnt agree with our investigator, the 
case was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. I said this complaint should be 
upheld in part in summary because I thought:
There was nothing to suggest Tesco Bank was aware of Miss Ms mental health 
condition or shouldve declined her application due to it. 
It was clear Miss Ms financial circumstances werent stable at the time of the application. 
She had a number of accounts in default or with debt collectors and appeared to be 
making token payments of £1 per month to around nine of them. Shed also taken short-
term loans and car finance in the months before the application. 
The outstanding unsecured debt of £11,600 identified by Tesco Bank at the time was 
significant compared to Miss Ms yearly salary. 
Had Tesco Bank carried out more checks, it wouldve realised, despite the lower credit 
limit, it was increasing Miss Ms debt in a way that was unsustainable for her.
Although Tesco Banks risk tolerance for the type of credit card account Miss M applied 
for was higher, it still needed to ensure the lending was sustainably affordable for her. 
To put things right, I thought Tesco Bank should pay Miss M £150 compensation. I also 
thought it should rework the debt without the interest and charges and either set up a 
repayment plan with Miss M after buying back the debt from the third party it had been 
passed to; or pay the difference in what she owes and what she would owe. 
I understood Miss M wanted the default on her credit file to be removed. But I didnt think 
that would be fair in this case as shed still owe Tesco Bank (or the third party) the capital. 
So if she didnt keep up with the agreed repayments the default could be added again and 
would stay on her file for a further six years from that point which would put her in worse 
position than shes already in. I also didnt think Tesco Bank would be in a position to 
remove the default as it seemed the third party added it.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Miss M 
said she accepted my provisional decision and wanted to work with Tesco Bank to repay the 
outstanding capital. Tesco Bank didnt accept my provisional decision. It said in summary:
The checks it carried out might not have highlighted any recent applications for credit 
Miss M had made at the time if it was too soon for them to show on its searches.
It was satisfied it could lend to her with the borrowing it knew she already had. 
The amount of compensation I had recommended, suggested it had made significant 
errors and it didnt agree. It pointed out that Miss M had spent the borrowing on non-
essential things and didnt make any repayments or attempts to communicate with Tesco 
Bank. So it didnt think it directly impacted the level of stress she experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything both parties said in response to my provisional decision. And I 
think the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Tesco Bank has said it might not have been aware of all of Miss Ms existing borrowing or 
credit searches when she applied for the credit card. And thats because they may have 
been too recent to appear on their searches. But in the information its given us, I can see it 
was aware Miss M had existing debt of around £11,600. And her credit file shows this was 
made up of car finance and short-term loans which were taken out shortly before her credit 
card application. 
So Im satisfied Tesco Bank was either aware Miss M had taken out significant borrowing 
shortly before the credit card application  or at least, it was aware she had a large amount 
of debt compared to her earnings  and further checks wouldve alerted it to her applications.Tesco Bank thinks the amount of compensation Ive suggested it pay is too much. And its 
highlighted that Miss M didnt use her credit card for day-to-day living expenses or make any 
repayments. But I dont think that makes a difference in this case. I say this because the 
lending Tesco Bank gave Miss M wasnt affordable for her in her circumstances. So by 
approving her credit card application, it enabled her to spend beyond her means and get 
further into debt which she immediately had difficulty repaying. Whilst I appreciate it doesnt 
think it made a significant error, Miss M has explained whats gone wrong has seriously 
impacted her life and mental health. And Im satisfied the compensation Ive recommended 
is appropriate to make up for this. 
Putting things right
I dont think Tesco Bank wouldve given Miss M this lending if it had done more thorough 
checks. But I know shes had use of the funds  and shes not paid much towards the 
capital. So to put things right in this case, I think Tesco Bank should either:
-Buy back the outstanding debt from the third party; rework the account and remove all 
the interest and any charges applied since it was opened so that a new balance remains 
which is only made up of the amount lent to her. Then it should contact Miss M about 
setting up a repayment plan to pay off the capital left over.
-Work out what would be outstanding if the interest and fees had never been applied and 
make a payment to Miss M or the third party of the difference between what she owes 
and what she wouldve owed, to reduce her outstanding debt.
Having this credit card mustve caused Miss M significant stress and worry  and this has 
been during an already difficult time for her. So to make up for whats gone wrong, I think 
Tesco Bank should also pay her £150 to compensate her for what shes been through.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
Plc trading as Tesco Bank to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman