DRN-3993071
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Openwork Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B was sold the PPI at the same time as the mortgage was being arranged in 2005.
Mr B made a claim for unemployment against the policy in 2021. As I understand it, this was 
declined by the insurer because Mr B was unable to share the details of a confidential 
settlement agreement. As such, the insurer couldnt be satisfied that Mr B hadnt made 
himself voluntarily unemployed.
Mr B says that settlement agreements are common for people in senior positions in his 
industry. He therefore feels that Openwork mis-sold him the policy as he would never have 
been covered for unemployment.
I wrote a provisional decision in January 2023 in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and inviting the parties to provide any further information or 
evidence they may wish to. Mr B made some further comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator had originally upheld the complaint because she thought the optional nature 
of the PPI had not been made clear. However, as I had explained in a previous jurisdiction 
decision, the circumstances under which Mr B has been allowed to bring his complaint after 
the PPI deadline means that I can only look at his mis-sale complaint in a very limited way. 
So I can only look at the part(s) of the complaint that relate specifically to the reason(s) why 
the claim was rejected. I cannot consider any other aspects of the sale of the PPI policy as 
they would still be out of time under the deadline. Therefore, I cannot make a finding on 
whether the policy was presented as optional or not.
When advising Mr B to buy the policy, Openwork needed to ensure that it met his needs. In 
response to my provisional decision, Mr B says that Openwork didnt carry out a needs 
analysis and didnt consider whether the policy would provide protection against 
unemployment for individuals in senior roles.
Mr B says that Openwork would have absolutely known that the policy would not pay out in 
the event of a confidentiality or settlement agreement being signed. I cant agree with that. 
Openwork are not insurers and would not be party to how an insurer assesses individual 
claims against the policy terms to decide whether a claim should succeed or not. A 
settlement agreement would be one of the things, but not necessarily the only thing, that an 
insurer would consider when assessing the wider circumstances of how someone had come 
to be unemployed. 
Furthermore, as Mr B has himself said, the policy is silent on settlement agreements and 
how they might impact an unemployment claim. It does however state that an exclusion will 
apply to:
Any claim where you have resigned, retired, taken voluntary redundancy or been dismissed 
for misconduct or have received payment instead of working
Openwork cannot be held responsible for how the insurer later assessed Mr Bs claim to 
conclude that it should be declined. And there is nothing in the above wording that would 
have led Openwork to conclude that Mr B, in his circumstances at the point of sale, would be 
unable to benefit from the policy. He has told us that he wanted unemployment cover and 
that he would never have accepted voluntary redundancy. So, on that basis, the policy was 
suitable for him.
Its possible that Openwork could have done more to draw the relevant policy term to Mr Bs 
attention. But even if it had done more to highlight the term clearly to him, I dont consider 
that this would have made a difference to his decision to buy the PPI. As Mr B has said that 
he would never accept voluntary redundancy, he wouldnt have been overly concerned 
about the clause that excluded it. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B says that the policy terms are irrelevant and 
that the situation has nothing to do with voluntary redundancy as his role was made 
permanently redundant. 
As Ive already said, Openwork cannot be held responsible for how the insurer has assessed 
the claim. A complaint about the claim being wrongly declined needs to be addressed to the 
insurer. I understand that a new complaint has now been set up against the insurer to that 
effect.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B has said. However, on balance, I am not 
persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs mis-sale complaint 
against Openwork Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman