DRN-3693060
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours 
Student Loans (HSL) has handled his student loans. 
What happened
Mr G has two student loans with HSL (for the purposes of this decision I will refer to them as 
the loan). Mr G has deferred his loan repayments on several occasions since they became 
payable. In 2019 the existing deferment ended but The Student Loan Company (SLC) hadnt 
received a new application. 
HSL says replacement deferment applications were forwarded to Mr G. As there was no 
deferment in place arrears began to accrue on his loan. Mr G has told us he has 
experienced very poor health and significant financial difficulties which impacted his ability to 
apply for the deferments. 
In 2020 Mr G told HSL he wanted to send his deferment application to SLC but wasnt able 
to use the post. HSL offered to accept copies of Mr Gs documents online. But when HSL 
received them, it said they were unreadable which meant they couldnt be forwarded to SLC 
to process Mr Gs application. 
Mr G went on to raise a complaint and HSL sent him a final response. HSL said it was 
offering to forward Mr Gs deferment application to SLC. But HSL said it was SLC that was 
responsible for assessing the deferment application. And as the documents provided werent 
readable, it couldnt forward them on his behalf as SLC wouldnt be able read the information 
provided. HSL gave Mr G the postal address for SLC deferment applications if he was 
unable to submit clearer documents online. 
HSL continued to contact Mr G about loan arrears and explained there was no deferment in 
place. HSL asked Mr G to make contact to discuss arrangements. Mr G told HSL hed been 
in discussions with SLC about a medical write off and that hed been signed off from work on 
a long term basis. Mr G went on to raise a complaint. 
HSL sent Mr G a response and said hed first informed it about health problems in June 
2021 and that hed been sick for around six months. HSL said that if Mr G was able to 
provide a medical professionals letter confirming his diagnosis and that he was unable to 
return to work on a permanent basis, it would consider a medical write off request. HSL also 
gave Mr G information about arranging for a three year deferment plan. But HSL said that 
arrears on Mr Gs loan meant it wasnt currently eligible for an age related write off. In 
addition, HSL didnt agree it had harassed Mr G for payment or treated him unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint and said they thought HSL had 
dealt with it fairly. Mr G asked to appeal and said HSL was aware that his circumstances in 
2019 meant he was unable to apply for a deferment. Mr G also said hed forwarded his 
deferment to HSL by email as requested but it had not been processed. Mr G advised 
telephone staff were rude and unhelpful when he called. Mr G explained the state of his 
health meat he would be unable to begin repayments again. 
As Mr G asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this complaint. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be 
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome. 
Mr G has told us hes unhappy that HSL failed to forward his deferment application to SLC. I 
understand Mr G is housebound and suffers with serious health problems. Mr G has told us 
some very personal information about his health and the seriousness of his conditions. I 
dont doubt what Mr G has told us about his health. But HSL has told us its offer to receive 
an emailed deferment application, print it and forward it to SLC was made on the basis Mr G 
told it he was unable to do so himself. I think that was a reasonable offer to try and help. 
HSL explained the deferment application it received was in the form of photos of the 
completed application. But the documents were unreadable so couldnt be used. As a result, 
it couldnt forward the deferment application to SLC on Mr Gs behalf. In the circumstances, I 
cant say HSLs decision was unreasonable. If HSL was unable to read the information within 
the images submitted it stands to reason SLC wouldnt have bene able to look at the 
application either. Saying that, I understand that meant Mr G wouldve had to make other 
arrangements to submit the deferment application to SLC. 
Ive looked at the level of contact between HSL and Mr G. HSL has contacted Mr G to tell 
him about the deferment status of his loan and also sent him information about arrears. And 
HSL emailed and called Mr G requesting payment of the arrears. Mr Gs told us hes found 
HSLs call handlers to be rude and unhelpful. The records show Mr G found the calls 
frustrating and I accept the subject and content were difficult. But I think that most likely 
reflects the overall nature of HSLs contact with Mr G rather than poor service by its call 
handlers.
Ive also looked at the emails and correspondence HSL sent Mr G. There is regular contact, 
but that reflects the status of Mr Gs loan and lack of ongoing deferment. I understand there 
were genuine reasons Mr Gs deferment applications werent submitted to SLC. But Im 
satisfied HSL had to keep Mr G updated by sending information about arrears and ways to 
defer payments. I havent been persuaded that HSL treated Mr G unfairly or harassed him 
when making contact about his loan. 
In line with the loan agreements, as there are current arrears on Mr Gs loan he doesnt 
qualify for the age related write off. Im satisfied thats fair and reflects the position of the loan 
accounts. 
Mr G has told us about very serious health conditions that affect him. And hes explained 
that due to the severity of his conditions he wont be returning to work. As a result, Mr G has asked HSL to consider writing off his loans. HSL has advised there are processes in place to 
consider medical write offs and longer term deferments caused due to ill health. HSL 
provided the following options: 
- Once a deferment application is approved by SCL, Mr G can forward evidence that 
shows the exceptional circumstances that prevented him from applying for deferment 
as well as evidence of his gross income during the period. HSL will then consider 
whether it can assist Mr G by reducing the level of arrears.
- If the arrears are repaid, HSL will review the account to assess whether it qualifies for 
the age related write off, in line with the loan agreement.
- If Mr G can provide confirmation from a medical professional that his circumstances 
are likely to remain the same for the next three years, HSL will look at a longer term, 
three year deferment period. This would mean Mr G wouldnt need to complete 
annual deferment applications. 
- To consider a full ill health cancellation or write off of the outstanding balance HSL 
says it would need a signed letter from Mr Gs medical professional advising it of his 
medical condition and confirming that, as a result, he will be permanently unable to 
return to work. Mr G would also need to supply evidence of the benefits hes 
receiving. HSL would then apply its criteria to Mr Gs circumstances and assess 
whether it can write off the debt. 
I think the above options provided by HSL are designed to try and offer tailored support to Mr 
G. Given the amounts involved, I wouldnt expect HSL to write off the outstanding balances 
without confirmation from a medical professional regarding Mr Gs condition and whether he 
will be able to return to work. I think thats a fair and reasonable step for HSL to take. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But as Im 
satisfied HSL dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman