DRN-3809817
The complaint
Mrs S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua, irresponsibly increased the credit limit for
a credit card she held with it and that she subsequently found the repayments unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2006, Mrs S opened a credit card account with NewDay which had a credit limit of
£350. Between 2007 and 2017, NewDay increased the credit limit for Mrs Ss account on
seven occasions.
Unfortunately, due to a health condition, Mrs Ss financial circumstances changed and, in
2013, she says she had to reduce the number of hours she could work and then later had to
stop work entirely. Mrs S says that had NewDay undertaken proportionate and reasonable
checks before increasing the credit limit on her card it would have seen that these credit
increases were unaffordable for her, and that she was becoming increasingly reliant on
credit.
In June 2018, Mrs S exceeded the credit limit of her account and struggled with repayments
resulting in a default. Her account was later sold to a third-party company following a default.
In March 2020, Mrs S complained to NewDay about the credit increases in light of her
financial situation. NewDay didnt uphold her complaint. It said Mrs S hadnt informed it of
any changes to her circumstances, nor had she declined any of the credit increases which
she could have opted out of. NewDay said that before considering a credit increase it had
looked at the management of Mrs Ss account, together with information recorded on her
credit file. NewDay said it was satisfied that the credit increases had been appropriately
offered to Mrs S. 
Mrs S was unhappy at the response from NewDay and complained to this service. She said
that had NewDay undertaken proper checks it would have noted that she always ran her
account close to each of the credit limits, made minimum payments, late payments and that
there was a default on her credit file.
Although there were seven increases to the credit limit of Mrs Ss account since shed taken
it out in 2006, it was agreed with both parties that this service would consider the three
increases applied from April 2016 onwards.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said, looking
at the information assessed by NewDay prior to each of its offers to increase the credit limit
in April and September 2016 and January 2017, that he thought these decisions had been
fair.
Our investigator said that he thought NewDay had carried out the level of checks he would
expect a lender to do when making lending decisions of this nature. These checks hadnt
shown any clear signs of financial difficulty. He also said that it wasnt until around June
2018 that there had been signs Mrs S was struggling financially. It was in June that she had
exceeded the cards limit and had at least one other credit account in arrears and this was
around 18 months after the final credit increase. Our investigator said he thought it hadnt
been unfair or irresponsible of NewDay to have applied the three credit limit increases that it
had to Mrs Ss account. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. She said NewDay hadnt looked at her credit
file properly as, if it had, it would have seen she was overcommitted and had a default. Mrs
S also said she hadnt received any of the letters informing her of the increase and so wasnt
aware she could have opted out.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Id had this approach in mind when considering what was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the
credit and the consumers circumstances.
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S would
be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
Id seen that Mrs S said that her financial circumstances had changed over time because
her health had impacted on her ability to work, thereby reducing her income. She said she 
had become overcommitted and reliant on credit and, had NewDay carried out proportionate 
and reasonable checks in April and September 2016 and January 2017, then it would have 
seen that these credit increases were not sustainably affordable for her.
March 2016 increase
In March 2016 NewDay increased the credit limit on Mrs Ss account from £1,900 to £2,850.
When deciding this increase NewDay said it took into account Mrs Ss management of her
credit card account and her credit file. It said there was no adverse information in Miss Ss 
credit record, and she had made regular payments towards her account, paying over the
contractual minimum amount required each month.
I hadnt seen that Mrs S had informed NewDay of the changes to her health and the impact
this had had on her financial situation. So, I thought it was reasonable to say it wasnt aware 
that anything had altered in Mrs Ss financial circumstances.
Looking at the information available as to how Mrs S had managed her account, Id seen 
that she had run her account close to the credit limit. However, Mrs S had more often than 
not made payments that were above the contractual minimum. There also appeared to have 
been one missed payment in the preceding six months prior to this rise, though this hadnt 
attracted a late payment fee and the next months payment was larger to cover that missing 
payment. There had been no other credit accounts showing any arrears/missed payments. 
So, I didnt think there was clear evidence Mrs S had been struggling to make payments or 
becoming over committed to credit.
But, this credit increase of £950 had been a third more than Mrs S s previous limit and I 
thought it was reasonable to have considered it to have been a significant jump in the 
amount of credit available to her. In light of the size of the increase and, notwithstanding the 
lack of adverse information on her account and credit record, I thought it would have been 
proportionate of NewDay to have sought further information about Mrs Ss income and expenses to verify whether this increase had been affordable for her.
However, a failure to carry out proportionate checks doesnt automatically mean that the 
increase in credit was unfair and unaffordable. I had to consider what further checks would 
have revealed and if the information would have altered NewDays decision to increase the 
credit limit.
Mrs S hadnt been able to provide me with copies of her bank statements or of her credit
record at that time, and I also hadnt seen evidence as to what her income or outgoings
were. This was unfortunate because it meant I didnt have sufficient information to be able to
say what NewDay would have discovered had it carried out proportionate checks. And I 
thought it would be unfair for me to say that this credit increase would not have been 
sustainably affordable for Mrs S in the absence of this evidence. I couldnt fairly rule out that 
the evidence would have shown that this credit increase was sustainably affordable for Mrs 
S.
September 2016 increase
In September 2016, NewDay had increased the credit cards limit to £3,750. NewDay again 
said that before deciding this increase of £900, it had considered Mrs Ss management of 
the card account and had also referred to the information contained in her credit file.
However, this was an increase only five months after the one in March 2016, and it was 
clear from Mrs Ss management of the account that she had quickly used the additional 
credit that had been made available to her in August 2016. Mrs S again ran the account 
close to the credit cards limit.
It also appeared that in July 2016, Mrs S had used the cash advance facility and in the
following month had missed a payment, although no late fee had been applied. Also, looking 
at her outstanding credit on other accounts, this had grown substantially from March 2013
when it was around £9,500 to about £13,000. So, I thought there were indications that Mrs S
was becoming increasingly indebted. But I accepted there were no late or missed payments 
on any other credit accounts.
In light of my view about the rise in March 2016, I thought that when raising the credit limit to
£3,750 on Mrs Ss account, NewDay should have again conducted further enquiries as to
her income and outgoings. It hadnt been proportionate or reasonable to solely rely on 
information as to how Mrs S had managed her account and what appeared on her credit file, 
since this evidence had shown an increasing reliance on debt.
Id seen that Mrs S hadnt cleared the balance of the card since shed had it, and it had been 
always running close to the credit limit. However, I accepted this didnt necessarily mean this
was a sign she was financially struggling since she had made regular monthly payments 
above the contractual minimum. As set out above, a failure to carry out proportionate checks
didnt automatically mean that the increase in credit was unfair and unaffordable. I again
needed to consider what would have been revealed had further enquiries been made.
But, as explained earlier, Mrs S hadnt provided sufficient evidence about her financial
position at that time for me to be able to say this credit increase had been unsustainable for 
her. And I thought that even though there was evidence that the amount of credit available to 
her had increased, I hadnt seen any defaults or missed payments recorded on her credit 
file.
So, I couldnt reasonably say that, had NewDay sought further information about Mrs Ss
finances, it would have been satisfied that this increase wasnt, at that time, sustainablyaffordable for her.
January 2017 increase
In January 2017 NewDay had increased the card limit to £4,900. This was a further increase 
of £1,150 only four months after the card had been increased to £3,750.
As I thought NewDay hadnt carried out proportionate checks for either of the two previous
credit increases in April and September 2016, I also thought that it should have done more 
than rely only on information as to how Mrs S had managed her account and about her 
credit file. Id seen that before this increase, Mrs S had again missed a payment in 
November 2016 incurring a £12 late payment fee and had exceeded the credit limit in 
December 2016.
Looking at the available evidence Id seen that Mrs Ss overall outstanding credit was
increasing. In April 2016 her total credit balance was £9,400 but, by December 2016, this
had increased to £14,844.
But I still needed to consider what information NewDay would have seen had it asked for it
from Mrs S. And, although I thought there was evidence of Mrs S becoming increasingly
indebted, I didnt think I could reasonably say an increase in her overall credit balance and 
one late payment fee was sufficient to say that the increase to £4,900 hadnt been 
sustainably affordable. This was because I simply didnt have enough information about her 
income and outgoings to say what her financial circumstances were at that time.
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
While I accepted it would have been proportionate and reasonable for NewDay to have 
carried out further investigations before increasing Mrs Ss credit limit in April and September 
2016 and January 2017, I hadnt seen any evidence that it had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably while handling Mrs Ss account.
Mrs S had missed payments from April 2018 and a default notice had been sent out in 
August 2018. Her account was later defaulted and sold to a third-party in January 2020. This 
had been in line with the credit cards terms and conditions.
Mrs S had failed to notify NewDay of the change in her financial circumstances or tell it she
had been was struggling financially. I hadnt seen that NewDay had acted unfairly in the way 
it had handled her account when she stopped making the contractual payments.
So, for the reasons set out above, I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Although I
thought NewDay should have carried out further proportionate and reasonable checks on 
Mrs Ss income and outgoings before increasing her credit limit on the three occasions from 
April 2016, I didnt have sufficient information as to what those checks would have revealed. 
I therefore couldnt reasonably say NewDay would have seen that these increases were
sustainably unaffordable for Mrs S.
NewDay has agreed with my provisional view. Mrs S hasnt asked me to look at any parts of 
my provisional decision again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Although neither party has asked me to look again at my decision, I have reviewed the 
evidence and the conclusions I reached. I havent changed my view. Im still satisfied that 
although it would have been fair and proportionate for NewDay to have asked Mrs S further 
questions about her income and outgoings, I dont have sufficient information to say what 
those enquiries would have revealed. And thats important as failure to carry out these 
checks doesnt necessarily mean that a credit rise was unfair. Due to the lack of information 
about Mrs Ss financial circumstances, I cant fairly say that NewDay would have seen that 
the three increases it made to Mrs Ss credit limit from April 2016 were sustainably 
unaffordable for her.
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman