DRN-2177335
The complaint
Ms W complains about Shawbrook Bank Limited and their failure to apply interest to her 
cash ISA in March 2020.
What happened
Ms W held a cash ISA with Shawbrook which accrued interest on a daily basis. This interest 
was usually applied and credited to the account on the last working day of the month. But, in 
March 2020, no interest was credited to the account.
Ms W was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint. She thought the interest the 
account had accrued hadnt been applied, so shed lost out financially. She wanted this 
interest to be applied and compensation for the inconvenience shed been caused.
Shawbrook responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained the interest was 
accrued daily and was usually capitalised and credited on a 30  31 day cycle. As February 
was a 29 day month, they had moved the next payment to 33 days to bring the cycle of 
capitalisation back in line. So, Ms W had received the interest accrued in March on 1 April. 
And moving forward, each credit of interest would be on the 1st of every month. So, they 
didnt think Ms W had lost out financially and didnt offer anything further.
Ms W says she didnt receive this response. And didnt agree that she received Marchs 
interest. So, she maintained she wanted the interest paid into her account and wanted 
compensation for the upset shed been caused by this and the way Shawbrook handled her 
complaint. As didnt agree, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Shawbrook had 
credited Ms Ws account with the interest accrued in March. While he understood Ms W may 
have been confused by the change in the date the interest was paid, he didnt think 
Shawbrook had acted unfairly by changing this. And he explained were unable to look into 
complaints about Shawbrooks complaint handling. So, he didnt think they needed to do 
anything further.
Ms W didnt agree but didnt provide an explanation as to why. But she did say she hadnt 
received Shawbrooks response to her complaint. As Ms W didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. I understand this isnt the outcome Ms W hoped for, but I hope my explanation 
below helps ease Ms Ws concerns.
First, I want to recognise the confusion Ms W was caused. I can understand why she 
wouldve been alarmed when her statement for March 2020 didnt include an interest 
payment. Especially when she was used to an interest payment being made on the last 
working day of each month. But for me to agree that Shawbrook have done something 
wrong, Id need to see that Ms W never received this payment or that Shawbrook failed to 
act in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And in this situation, that isnt the 
case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the account, which explain the account accrues 
interest on a daily basis. And Shawbrook have confirmed up until March 2020, this interest 
amount was credited to the account on the last working day of the month. This isnt in 
dispute.
Shawbrook have explained that as every other month of the year consists of 30 or 31 days, 
their system calculates the interest that needs to be paid over this time period. But, as 
February consisted of 29 days, this wasnt possible. So, Shawbrook explained they 
calculated Ms Ws interest payment for March over 33 days, in order to bring this cycle back 
into sync. And Ive seen Ms Ws account was credit the interest it was due on 1 April, which 
falls in line with this explanation.
So, Im satisfied Ms W received the interest her account accrued in March. And although I do 
recognise this was confusing, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
taking this course of action. So, I dont think they need to do anything further.
Im aware Ms W was also unhappy with Shawbrooks handling of her complaint. And in 
particular, she says she didnt receive a copy of Shawbrooks final response. But Im unable 
to consider this as complaints handling isnt a regulated activity. That being said, Im glad to 
see our investigator offered to send Ms W a copy of the final response Shawbrook say they 
sent. Ms W is free to request a copy of this final response if she wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint about Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman