DRN-3360768
The complaint
Mrs W complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds application of an excess under her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator for these reasons:
The policy makes it clear that an excess will be taken off the first claim each policy 
year. It also says that if a claim goes over the renewal, AXA will take off the excess 
for the claim before renewal and then take off the excess for the claim after the 
renewal.
Mrs Ws treatment spanned two policy years, which meant that AXA deducted an 
excess in both policy years. Im satisfied that was fair and in line with the policy 
terms. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs Ws operation was delayed due to her health, which meant 
that her treatment couldnt all take place in the one policy year. However, as our 
investigator has said, AXA wasnt responsible for this delay. I therefore cant 
reasonably require AXA to waive the second excess. 
Mrs W says she called AXA to discuss the delay with her treatment, and heard a 
recorded message which said there was no need to discuss any delays due to the 
situation at the time. I would assume this message related to treatment being 
delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and AXA not needing to know about this. 
Though as our investigator has said, even if Mrs W had spoken to AXA about the 
delay, this wouldnt have changed the timing of her treatment as this wouldve still 
spanned two policy years.
Whilst I recognise Mrs W was disappointed that an excess was deducted in both policy 
years, I dont find that AXA did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman