DRN-3337325
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA declined a claim under a group income
protection insurance policy she has the benefit of.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs D became absent from work and was signed off by her GP with stress.
Thereafter, she was signed off work with stress/neurological condition until the end of July
2019 when the reason for her absence was detailed as mental health on her GP certificate.
The reason for her absence reverted to stress from the end of August 2019.
Mrs D had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through her employer,
which can pay out a large proportion of Mrs Ds salary after shed been off work for 13 weeks
(the deferred period).
As Mrs D was unable to return to work at the end of the deferred period, a claim was made
on the policy. Generali declined the claim. It didnt think Mrs D was incapacitated, as defined
by the policy, throughout the entirety of the deferred period. So, at the end of September
2019, it declined the claim.
Mrs D appealed that decision by way of a letter dated mid-October 2019, referring to
additional medical evidence. However, in February 2020, Generali maintained its position to
decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mrs D complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds
complaint. Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators findings and she requested that her
complaint be passed to an ombudsman to consider. She also raised additional points in
reply to our investigators opinion.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2021 explaining why I was intending to find 
that Generali hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mrs Ds claim. An extract of 
my provisional decision is set out below:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy benefit will be paid each month if a
member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period. When making a claim, its for Mrs D
to demonstrate that she met the definition of incapacity.
Under the policy:
-Incapacity is defined as: as a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of
performing the Material and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not
carrying out any other Work or occupation.
-Material and substantial means: duties that are normally required for the
performance of a Members occupation and cannot reasonably be omitted or
modified by their Employer.
From the information Ive been given, Mrs D was predominantly carrying out a sedentary
position immediately before she was signed of work by her GP. Ive taken on board what she
says about the demands of the role and level of responsibility she had.
Mrs D wasnt carrying out any other work or occupation during the deferred period, so the
crux of the issue I have to decide is whether Generali fairly and reasonably concluded that
Mrs D didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
this issue. And having done so, Im persuaded Generali has acted fairly and reasonably
here. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mrs D was signed off by her GP as being unable to work due to various
medical issues during the deferred period (and subsequently). Thats, of course, a relevant
consideration here but the fact that she was signed off by her GP isnt determinative.
Ive also considered that Mrs D was attending regular therapy sessions during the deferred
period (and beyond) and taking medication which had been prescribed to her. But it doesnt
automatically follow that Mrs D was incapable of performing the material and substantial
duties of the role she was carrying out immediately prior to being signed off sick by her GP,
throughout the entirety of the deferred period.
In support of her claim, Mrs D completed a claim form dated early August 2019. Its reflected
that:
she found most aspects of her job difficult due to the physical and cognitive
symptoms of stress.
her symptoms varied  some days were better than others.
since being off work every day was different. Usual activities included watching tv,
reading, visiting friends and family, swimming and shopping.
her concentration/memory was affected when reading.
Mrs Ds GP notes reflect that on 21 May 2019 (the date she was first signed off sick and
which started the deferred period) her therapist had advised her to take some time off work. 
But a week later, on 28 May 2019, its reflected that she was doing better, her medication
had a good effect although she wasnt sleeping well.
Although there is further reference to feeling anxious in her GP records, Mrs D was also said
to be doing well on 3 June 2019 - and again on 31 July 2019.
Mrs Ds GP also completed a form on 20 August 2019 in which its reflected that Mrs Ds
condition was improving but that shed been experiencing anxiety related symptoms which
had been on and off since October 2018. But these had worsened enough to impact on
day to day function.Ive also seen a letter from a Consultant Neurologist on 7 June 2019, whod met with Mrs D.
The letter summarises some of Mrs Ds symptoms which appear to be self-reported
including difficultly coping, crying more and difficultly sleeping. Its also reflected that she
was finding that she is having more difficultly concentrating following a conversation, taking
Minutes at meetings or responding to emails. When tracking documents she will find that
some of this has been left unfinished or not making sense. She was on holiday and couldnt
remember that she changed the pass-code on her phone. She has also given people wrong
addresses or wrong data. Its also reflected that Mrs Ds mood was contributing to her
symptoms.
However, the letter concludes that a cognitive assessment (the assessment) had been
performed  which the Consultant Neurologist says is a good screening test for cogitative
dysfunction  and Mrs D scored 29/30. This is described as excellent.
Ive given considerable weight to the result of the assessment as it was carried out during
the deferred period. From what Ive seen, it assesses different cognitive functions including
attention, concentration, memory and language. And the result isnt indicative that Mrs Ds
cognitive ability had been affected in June 2019.
When making this finding Ive taken on board what Mrs D says about the assessment being
in no way indicative of the very high level of cognitive function required to perform the
material and substantial parts of her role. And the mistakes she was making are indicative
that she lacked the ability to do her role. However, the mistakes Mrs D says she was making
are self-reported whereas the assessment is objective and medically recognised. Mrs Ds
employer (and the policyholder of the policy) stated in the claim form it was asked to
complete that there had been a dip in the levels of focus in the run up to her sickness
absence. However, they say Mrs D was able to carry out her job to the required standard
and her motivation and interest in her role was excellent.
Mrs D also says that if Generali is seeking to rely on the assessment to support that she had
the required level of functioning required for her job then it should provide evidence from a
neurologist, psychiatrist or suitable professional. However, I dont think thats right in the
circumstances of this case. As Ive set out above, its for Mrs D to show that she met the
policy definition of incapacity. The fact that she was signed off sick, unable to work, by her
GP isnt, by itself, enough to illustrate this. Looking at the entirety of the medical evidence
Ive been given, I dont think it was unfair for Generali to take into account the result of the
assessment when considering the claim. And it was under no obligation  regulatory or
otherwise - to obtain further medical opinion to interpret the result of the assessment.
Ive also taken on board all medical evidence which post-dates the end of the deferred
period, including letters from occupational health, Mrs Ds Consultant Psychiatrist and
Clinical Psychologist. However, Ive placed more weight on the medical evidence from the
deferred period and having done so, Im satisfied Generali has reasonably concluded Mrs D
wasnt incapacitated  as defined by the policy - when declining the claim.
Although, the communications which post-date the deferred period contain summaries of
Mrs Ds symptoms and confirm a diagnosis of moderate depressive disorder with some
anxiety symptoms, I cant see that another functionality assessment was carried out. And
even if it had been, that wouldve been relevant to the date it was carried out and not
necessarily relevant to whether Mrs D was incapacitated during the deferred period. Ive also
seen an occupational report dated 23 September 2019  so around one month after the end
of the deferred period  which says that apart from a degree of fatigue, no significant
functional limitation is reported.
Responses to my provisional decision:I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or comments for me to consider in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs D replied with further comments and medical evidence. Our investigator forwarded the 
medical evidence on to Generali for comment. It replied saying that further information didnt 
change its position; it maintained that it was right to decline Mrs Ds claim. Our investigator 
also forwarded Generalis further comments to Mrs D to consider and she raised further 
points in reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all points raised by Mrs D in response to my provisional decision, the further 
medical evidence shes provided, Generalis comments on the further medical evidence put 
forward by Mrs D and her final comments in reply. I thank the parties for the time taken 
putting together their responses for me to review.
Again, I havent commented on everything the parties have mentioned. Instead, Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the most relevant issues. 
The outcome of this complaint is finely balanced in my opinion but having considered 
everything Ive been provided with; I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. The further information 
provided hasnt changed my provisional thoughts set out in my provisional decision and I 
dont think Generali has unfairly declined the claim made under the policy. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I placed weight on the findings of the 
Consultant Neurologists letter dated 7 June 2019, when concluding that Generali 
hadnt unfairly declined the claim on the basis that Mrs D didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the entirety of the deferred period. The report 
reflected that a cognitive assessment had been performed  which the Consultant 
Neurologist said is a good screening test for cogitative dysfunction  and Mrs D 
scored 29/30. This is described as excellent. The same Consultant Neurologist has 
provided a letter dated 31 January 2022 and theyve confirmed that Mrs D had 
reported mood changes with considerable anxiety and depression and reported 
cognitive symptoms. They confirm that the result of the cognitive assessment carried 
out was normal, but the assessment may miss dysfunction in patients with a high 
baseline IQ. However, the Consultant hasnt said that the assessment was 
inaccurate in Mrs Ds particular case. The Consultant says Mrs Ds mood was low, 
but it doesnt automatically follow that she was incapacitated as defined by the policy 
terms. 
Mrs Ds GP has provided a letter dated 2 February 2022 which reflects that Mrs D 
improved steadily with therapy and anti-depressant medication. The GP goes on to 
say: however the improvement was not sufficient enough for her to return to work at 
that point. The GP certificates from the deferred period also support the GPs 
conclusions that Mrs D wasnt well enough to work. I explained in my provisional 
decision, thats a relevant consideration. However, the cognitive assessment 
undertaken by the Consultant Neurologist and referred to in their letter dated 7 June 
2019  which was shortly after the deferred period started  reflects that Mrs Ds 
cognitive functions werent affected at the time. That assessment evaluates different 
cognitive functions including attention, concentration, memory and language. So, I 
dont think Generali has concluded that, as a result of illness, Mrs D was incapable of performing the material and substantial duties of her occupation throughout the 
entirety of the deferred period  which is the crucial period in terms of the complaint 
Im determining.
I appreciate Mrs Ds comments, that references to her doing better in her GP notes 
during the deferred period dont mean she was able to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation. And those comments arent determinative. 
However, her GP notes from the time are a relevant consideration and theres little in 
the notes from the time, explaining the functional impairments she was experiencing 
that she has now provided more detail about. 
Mrs Ds Clinical Psychologist has also provided a letter dated 25 January 2022. 
Theyve said they saw Mrs D for approximately 30 sessions of Cognitive Behaviour 
Therapy (CBT) between March 2019 to September 2020. Initially, they say that Mrs 
D was primarily in fight of flight mode, both at work and at home and this resulted in 
chronic poor concentration and focus, IBS, poor sleep, inability to switch off, night-
time sweating. And in response to contact with work it also manifested in acute 
physiological symptoms, such as raised heart rate, sweating, and inability to engage 
in conversation. In this threat mode, and due to the nature of her work, it was very 
clear that [Mrs D] would not have been able to perform her duties whilst in this 
mode. Although, this letter was written over two years after the end of the deferred 
period, Ive considered the contents carefully, as the Clinical Psychologist says 
theyve been Mrs Ds therapist over a sustained period, which includes the deferred 
period. However, from whats been written, it looks as though Mrs Ds symptoms are 
largely self-reported. And Ive placed more weight on the results of the cognitive 
assessment mentioned in the Consultant Neurologists letter dated 7 June 2019 
which reflect  early in the deferred period  Mrs Ds cognitive function wasnt 
impaired. 
Ive placed less weight on the letters provided from occupational health during the 
period June to August 2020 and the letters from Mrs Ds Consultant Psychiatrist 
dated 27 April 2020 and 18 May 2020. They explain the position in 2020 but thats 
over six months after the date the deferred period ended. The occupational health 
reports reflect Mrs Ds phased return to work at that time and the Consultant 
Psychiatrists letters reflect her levels of medication and tools, techniques, and 
strategies available to her.   
Ive also considered what Mrs D has said in her email to our Service dated 8 
February 2022  in particular the symptoms she was experiencing at the time, why 
she was trying to keep these from her employer and not going into detail about her 
symptoms in her claim form dated August 2019, in support of her claim. However, I 
dont think Generali has acted unreasonably by taking what Mrs D said in her claim 
form at face value. And although Mrs D has provided some evidence  in the form of 
emails  showing discussions between her and her Psychologist in mid-May 2019, I 
dont think those discussions outweigh the results of the cognitive assessment 
carried out and referred to in the Consultant Neurologists letter dated June 2019. 
Further, they only give a snapshot of how she was feeling during a short time of the 
deferred period. 
Mrs D has also said Generalis delay in considering her appeal meant she lost the 
opportunity to seek contemporaneous additional medical evidence. Although Mrs Ds 
appeal is dated 17 October 2019 and Generali didnt decline her appeal until 11 
February 2020, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think that was 
unreasonable. I can see that it was proactively trying to obtain further medial information in response to her detailed appeal document. And, its for Mrs D to 
establish that she met the definition of incapacity in the policy on a balance of 
probabilities. If Mrs D wanted to provide additional medical evidence to support that 
she was incapacitated during the deferred period, she was free to do so. I dont think 
Generali is under any obligation  legal, regulatory or otherwise  to set out what 
evidence Mrs D should obtain in support of her claim/appeal or suggest she should 
attend a functionality medical assessment at the time. However, I can see when it 
took the decision to decline the claim, it did consider the medical evidence from the 
time of the deferred period and the information on the claim form  as I wouldve 
reasonably expected it to have done. And in response to the appeal, it obtained and 
considered further medical information which I think was reasonable. 
I know Mrs D will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt that she has been 
through a difficult time over the last few years. However, for the reasons explained above, 
and those set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out in the background 
section of this decision), Im satisfied that Generali has acted fairly and reasonably by 
concluding she wasnt continuously incapacitated under the policy throughout the deferred 
period  and declining the claim. 
I hope that it helps Mrs D to know that someone impartial and independent of the parties has 
looked into her concerns.
Finally, if Mrs D has any further medical evidence that she feels supports her claim during 
the deferred period, shes free to forward that evidence to Generali to see whether it 
changes its position about whether she was incapacitated as defined by the policy. And 
whether any benefit is payable under the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman