DRN-3012038
The complaint
Miss J says when she cancelled her motor insurance policy, Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) charged a standard fee without prior notice of it.
What happened
Miss J called AAIS in August 2020 to add a new car to the policy when her old car was
written-off. When AAIS said an extra £108.81 would be payable, she asked what the
increase in her monthly payments would be. She then asked if there would be any admin
fee should she want to cancel the policy after shed checked the market. The advisor said
thered be a £30 cancellation fee, plus a sum for time on cover. Four days later Miss J called
to cancel the policy. She was charged AAISs standard £28 arrangement fee, as well as the
cancellation fee. She thought that was wrong, as the first advisor hadnt mentioned it.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Js complaint. He thought the advisors failure to
mention the £28 fee had affected her ability to work out the best deal for her car insurance
cover. In his opinion, by the time she was given all the correct details, shed already made
her decision to cancel the policy and had no choice but to go ahead with it. He thought AAIS
should refund the arrangement fee and pay Miss J £35 for inconvenience.
AAIS said there was no evidence that Miss J had bought other insurance at the point she
called it to cancel the policy, or that her decision to cancel was affected by the £28 fee not
being mentioned initially. It said in the first call Miss J only made a tentative enquiry about a
possible cancellation and didnt ask for details such as the cost of time on cover that was
outstanding. When she later called to cancel, the full cancellation costs were set out, so she
was able to make an informed decision about whether to retain the policy or not. AAIS also
said that its charges were all set out in the policy documents that it sent to Miss J at renewal.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, as follows:
We think charges should be made clear to consumers at the point of sale and at renewal.
The first page of the documents sent to Miss J before the renewal in in 2020 says that she
should read the Important Renewal Information on page two of the pack. Under that
heading, the £30 cancellation fee and the £28 arrangement fee are both set out. They also
appear elsewhere in the documents, including in the policy booklet. Miss J accepted those
terms and I think she was on notice of the fees that would be payable on cancellation.
I dont think cancelling the policy was in Miss Js mind when she made the first call to AAIS.
It seems that what prompted her to think about that possibility was realising how much shed
been paying each month for the policy. She seemed to be surprised about that  although
the premium is set out clearly on page one of the renewal pack. Miss J also had to consider
the sum by which her monthly payment would rise in order to have cover for the new car.
When Miss J asked the advisor about cancellation charges, I think she should have stated
the two standard fees that would be payable. But I also have to consider what detriment was
caused to Miss J by the advisors omission. I think its unlikely that she would have decided
to keep the policy - rather than check the market for cheaper insurance  on being told in
that call that it would cost her an extra £28 to cancel it. I think its reasonable to assume that
Miss J would still have looked for cover that would have saved her more than that sum. And
in any event, when she called again, having decided to cancel, she was made aware of the
extra fee (and the charge for time on cover) and went ahead with the cancellation anyway.
In my opinion, the first advisors omission meant the service Miss J got wasnt as good as it
could have been. But from the details Ive seen so far, I dont think Miss J has shown that the
impact of that on her was such that AAIS should have to refund the arrangement fee, or that
compensation should be paid. So Im minded not to uphold Miss Js complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional decision, but neither party did so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional findings, I dont think theres any reason to 
depart from them, so for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman