DRN-2825340
The complaint
Mr H complains about Society of Lloyds (SOL) and the way it handled a legal expenses 
insurance claim. He says delay has caused him financial loss and inconvenience. 
References to SOL include agents that handled the claim.
What happened
The background facts are known to the parties, so I wont rehearse them all here. In 
summary though, Mr H was involved in a boundary dispute with his neighbour and sought 
legal expenses cover. SOL appointed solicitors to act, and authorisation for a surveyors 
report was requested at the end of July 2019. In October 2019 Mr H complained to SOL 
about delays and that effectively, from his perspective, nothing was happening. 
SOL investigated the complaint and issued its final response in early December 2019. It 
accepted there had been some delay and offered £100 compensation. But SOL confirmed 
that the claim remained covered and it would liaise with the appointed solicitors. Mr Hs 
concern was that his case was unwinnable because of the delay as during that short period 
his property managing agent had potentially trespassed on the neighbours land. But SOL 
reiterated the claim would progress and authority and funding for a surveyors report was in 
place. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think SOL needed to do any 
more to put things right. He thought £100 was a fair amount explaining that the amount fairly 
reflected the delay of a few weeks in confirming funding for a site survey. Because little or 
nothing happened in terms of the neighbour or communication from their solicitor until 2020, 
the investigator wasnt persuaded SOLs earlier delay impacted the overall direction of how 
the claim progressed. 
The investigator noted that Mr H only tried to move things at pace once the neighbour put 
their house back on the market and Mr H contacted the neighbours agent to inform them of 
the current boundary dispute. This in turn prompted the neighbours solicitors to contact 
Mr H demanding payment of damages. Overall, the investigator didnt think the delay in 
confirming funding for a surveyor or finding the expert at an earlier point would have 
expedited matters. He didnt think it impacted the outcome of the legal dispute. 
Mr H disagreed. He believes had the delay not occurred the boundary dispute would have 
been settled earlier and £100 doesnt cover the unnecessary stress hes experienced. He 
also says that he was liable for more costs because of the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that SOL caused a delay in confirming funding for a surveyor to be 
appointed to carry out a site survey. In looking at the delay issues in this complaint Im 
mindful of SOLs duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
The delay appears to have concerned around two to three months between the claim being 
submitted, cover confirmed by SOL to the solicitors and funding authorised. I accept Mr H 
has been caused a degree of inconvenience because of the delay in so far as hes had to 
chase information and progress. But Im not persuaded that it impacted the outcome of the 
legal dispute.
The boundary dispute became an issue when the neighbour marketed their property for sale. 
It was relatively promptly withdrawn from sale because of the dispute and there was some 
engagement between Mr H and the neighbours solicitors. There were a number of times 
where Mr H stated he would effectively do nothing further in pursuing the matter with the 
neighbour e.g. when the property was withdrawn from the market and pending outcomes 
from other complaint schemes.  
In March 2020 Mr H intimated there was no advantage to forcing the issues and future steps 
may need to be placed on hold. Having thought carefully its apparent to me that pace 
wasnt Mr Hs wish and the approach was more based on reacting to matters such as the 
neighbour putting their property on and then withdrawing it from the market. So, Im not 
persuaded SOLs delay and a survey carried out caused Mr H financial loss. But I am 
satisfied he was caused some inconvenience and £100 reflects fair redress.
My final decision
I am aware Society of Lloyds has made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Society of Lloyds should 
pay Mr H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman