DRN-2776464
The complaint
Mr H complains about problems and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when processing an 
ISA transfer request. 
What happened
On 19 March 2020 Barclays received an ISA transfer form from another business (A) for Mr 
H. Barclays processed the ISA transfer and sent A a cheque. 
On 20 March 2020 a national lockdown was put in place which meant Barclays offices were 
temporarily closed. 
On 30 March 2020 Mr H contacted Barclays. Barclays said the cheque had been returned by 
A because the ISA form didnt have a wet signature. The possibility of sending the funds 
back to A via a transfer was discussed but, at the time, it wasnt something Barclays was 
able to do. 
Barclays went on to attempt a transfer on 20 April 2020 but it didnt go through because Mr 
Hs national insurance number wasnt included on the transfer authority form. 
Mr H spoke with Barclays on a number of occasions about the ISA transfer process but on 6 
May 2020 he asked for his funds to be transferred back into his existing account. Barclays 
applied the interest Mr Hs funds had missed whilst they were withdrawn to transfer them to 
A.
Mr H complained and Barclays apologised for the delay and offered £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr H referred his complaint to this service and explained hed 
wanted to use the funds for an investment and had lost out on the return he hoped to make. 
The investigator agreed there had been issues and delays with Mr Hs ISA transfer but 
thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly. The investigator said they didnt think it 
would be fair to say Barclays was responsible for delays that were caused, in part, by the 
lockdown. Mr H asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the time line for this case and can see Barclays did process Mr Hs ISA 
transfer request on 19 March 2020. Barclays sent a cheque with Mr Hs ISA funds on that 
date but it was returned by A on the basis there was no signature on the form. 
I can see Mr H contacted Barclays on several occasions to try and arrange a transfer. 
Barclays has explained the process took longer than normal due to the lockdown. Whilst I 
understand Mr H feels the lockdown highlighted problems with Barclays processes for 
carrying out an ISA transfer I havent found thats the case. I think its fair to say that 
Barclays ability to carry on as normal was impacted by the unprecedented situation. 
Barclays has explained its staff couldnt attend its offices which meant there were processing 
delays. Whilst I agree there were delays, I havent found they were caused because 
Barclays failed to take reasonable care with Mr Hs ISA transfer request. 
I think its also reasonable to say there were issues unrelated to the lockdown that delayed 
the ISA transfer. As Ive said above, the cheque was initially sent back by A on the basis it 
didnt have a copy of Mr Hs signature on file. But by this point, Barclays stopped sending 
cheques out to settle ISA accounts. Later, a transfer failed because the ISA request form 
didnt have Mr Hs national insurance number for verification purposes. 
I agree its likely the situation wouldve been resolved without the same level of delay had 
Barclays been in a position to operate normally. But, as Ive said above, Im satisfied that 
issues outside of its control also impacted the situation. That being said, I note Barclays sent 
the required cheque prior to lockdown restrictions coming into effect, and A returned it on the 
basis of information (a copy of his signature) it says it needed from Mr H. 
Mr H asked Barclays to return his funds to the original ISA account and it took steps to 
rework the interest so there was no break. Barclays also took steps to ensure Mr Hs ISA 
subscription wasnt affected by what happened. I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
Barclays has apologised for the delay and offered Mr H £75 for the difficulties and distress 
caused. Whilst I understand my decision will disappoint Mr H, I havent found grounds to tell 
Barclays to compensate him for the investment losses hes told us about. As Ive said above, 
Im satisfied there were delays that were outside of Barclays control in this case. In my view, 
Barclays dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and made a fair offer that reflects the issues 
raised. As a result, Im not telling Barclays to increase its offer or do anything else. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman