DRN-3181326
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly granted her a loan she couldnt afford
to repay.
What happened
The background to what led Mrs H to apply for a loan with Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) is
well-known to both parties so I wont be outlining that in my decision.
Mrs H successfully applied for a loan of £25,000 with Zopa in December 2019. The terms of
the agreement were that Mrs H would repay £639.14 over 60 months.
Mrs H complained to Zopa in 2020 saying that they shouldnt have approved the loan as the
repayments werent affordable and so they had lent to her irresponsibly. Zopa didnt agree.
They said that they carried out a thorough assessment which included asking Mrs H for bank
statements to show her income and a credit check which they say raised no concerns. Zopa
said that they were satisfied that Mrs H had enough disposable income to cover the monthly
payments.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Zopa didnt carry out
proportionate checks to determine whether the agreement was affordable. In particular, she
felt that Zopa should have done further checks to establish whether the income shown on
the bank statements was Mrs Hs income. And that had they carried out further checks, they
would have seen that the income was actually her husbands and so would have realised the
agreement wasnt affordable to Mrs H.
Zopa didnt agree and said that Mrs H had confirmed her income to them as being that which
was shown on the bank statements she provided and that they based their lending decision
on that information.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 October 2021, in which I said the 
following:
Mrs H says that Zopa provided her with a loan that wasnt affordable. So, what I am
essentially considering in this decision is whether Zopa completed reasonable and
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H could repay the borrowing in a sustainable
way.
If I consider that Zopa carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then I need to
consider whether they made a fair lending decision. If I dont consider that Zopa carried out
these checks, then I need to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks would
have shown that Mrs H could sustainably repay the borrowing.
Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
These were the rules and guidelines set in place when Zopa granted Mrs H the loan.
Before granting credit, Zopa were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate
assessment of Mrs Hs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be
concerned with whether Mrs H could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the
risk posed to Zopa as the lender, or its credit or lending risk but this is not necessarily the
same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors
such as, but not limited to:
The type and amount of credit; 
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered
proportionate, as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and
proportionate check ought to be.
Ive looked at the checks Zopa carried out. They asked Mrs H to provide them with three
months worth of recent bank statements which they say was used to determine her income.
Zopa also carried out a credit check. Im unsure whether Zopa used the bank statements to
determine Mrs Hs monthly expenditure as part of their checks as I havent seen from the
evidence provided that they did this. I mention this because I think that an assessment of
both Mrs Hs income and expenditure was proportionate in these circumstances. Mrs H was
being asked to repay a significant amount of money each month compared to the income
that was shown on the bank statements. Ill return to this a bit further on as Ill firstly look at
the information that I know Zopa considered, namely Mrs Hs income and the information
shown on the credit check.
Ive looked at the information obtained from the credit check. This didnt show anything
concerning, for example, any signs of over-indebtedness or adverse information like late
payments or defaults. The check did show that Mrs H had a current mortgage with payments
of around £1,200 each month but no signs of any problems in repaying this.
Zopa also looked at three months worth of bank statements and determined that Mrs Hs
income on average was around £2,170. Ive looked at these statements and can see that
Zopa calculated this by averaging out the three income amounts that came in from a
company Ill call O, over the period of time covered by the bank statements, although the
actual amount that came in each month was around £2,700.
This is a crucial part of this complaint as I note our investigator felt that Zopa should have
carried out further checks to determine that this was indeed Mrs Hs income, particularly
bearing in mind that this was a joint account she held with her husband. I dont though agree
with this. I think Zopa did do an appropriate check on this. I can see that they specifically
asked Mrs H to confirm what entries on the bank statements related to income and that Mrs
H said that these were the entries from O. 
I think it reasonable for Zopa to have relied on that clarification from Mrs H and that they 
went ahead with the application on the basis that this was Mrs Hs declared income, which 
was corroborated by the information shown on the bank statements.However, there is a further element to this which Ive mentioned previously. That is the
expenditure information that was shown on the bank statements. I think that Zopa should
have considered this as part of their checks. As Ive said, this was a significant monthly
commitment for Mrs H and would have taken up nearly a third of the income that Zopa took
into account. Not only that, Zopa had this information to hand at the time and so ought to
have taken that into account anyway to ensure that Mrs H had enough disposable income to
sustainably make each monthly payment.
Ive looked at the expenditure shown on these bank statements and can see that on average
there were non-discretionary expenses of around £2,000 each month, including the
mortgage and other expenses such as insurances, council tax, phone contracts and utilities.
The repayments for this loan were £653.14 so that would have in theory left Mrs H with
almost no money left over for other essential costs like food and clothing to give two
examples.
However, Ive also seen that there were significant amounts leaving the account each month
for what was described as CB card top up. Ive added up a total of around £8,000 over the
three months. I understand that Mrs H says that these were for essential monthly costs. Im
unsure what these costs specifically were but I can also see that Mrs Hs husband seems to
have covered a large amount of those costs from his sole account. This meant that overall
the account remained in a fairly healthy positive balance. I dont think this would or indeed
should have caused Zopa to have had concerns about whether Mrs H was able to make the
loan repayments. The reality of that may well of course have been different and I dont know
what Mrs H would have likely said had Zopa asked questions about this. But Zopa would I
think have been entitled to think that these other costs would be largely covered by her
husband but also that the expenditure costs shown on the statements could in theory be
covered to some extent by Mrs Hs husband.
Overall, I cant be satisfied that Zopa carried out proportionate checks as I dont know
whether they took Mrs Hs expenditure into account (which I think was proportionate to do).
However, even if they failed to do so, I dont think that this would have reasonably led them
to think that the loan was unaffordable. So, for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont currently
plan to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties for their comments on my provisional decision.
Mrs H didnt agree. In summary, she said that I had come to the same decision as she had 
in that Zopa hadnt carried out the correct checks, but she didnt understand why I hadnt 
then upheld her complaint. Mrs H also said that it was clear from the bank statements used 
by Zopa that she couldnt afford the repayments. And Mrs H asked whether I had asked 
Zopa to confirm that they had carried out the checks I felt were proportionate (which I had 
outlined in my provisional decision) and whether that made a difference to the complaint. 
Zopa didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs H for her response to my provisional decision. However, it hasnt changed my 
view on the complaint. Ill explain why here. Mrs H correctly says that I found that Zopa hadnt carried out the right checks when it 
assessed her loan application. However, that doesnt then automatically lead to me 
upholding the complaint. I set out in my provisional decision that, if I felt that Zopa hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks, I would then need to think about what a proportionate 
check likely would have been, and whether then that should have led Zopa not to grant Mrs 
H the loan.
I felt, and still do, that Zopa should have taken Mrs Hs monthly expenditure into account 
bearing in mind the repayments on the proposed loan were significant compared to her 
income. However, as I also noted in my provisional decision, the bank statements Ive seen 
and which were provided to Zopa by Mrs H before the loan was granted, shows there were 
significant amounts leaving Mrs Hs account each month and that the account was still left 
with a fairly healthy positive balance even after those amounts had been debited. So, I dont 
think this should have led Zopa to think that Mrs H wasnt able to afford the loan. 
My provisional decision was intended to let both parties give any final submissions and 
evidence before I send my final decision (which marks the end of our involvement with Mrs 
Hs complaint). That would include any reasons either party has for agreeing or disagreeing 
with my provisional findings. To answer Mrs Hs comment, I havent asked Zopa to confirm 
whether they did the correct checks on Mrs Hs loan. I set out why I felt they hadnt done so. 
As Zopa hasnt replied to my provisional decision, then I see no reason to change my view 
on that. However, for the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision, I find that 
Zopa didnt act unfairly in approving the loan.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman