DRN-3238131
The complaint
Mr U complains that Remitly U.K., Ltd hasnt given him sufficient support after he had a 
problem with a payment he was sending to a supplier in China.
What happened
Mr U is the director of a microenterprise. He wanted to purchase some fabric in connection 
with the company and found a supplier in China. They agreed a price of 25,000 CNY, 
equating at the time to just over £2,700.
The supplier provided his account details for Mr U to use when sending the payment. While 
the payment was being made for business purposes, Mr U sent the money from his personal 
Remitly account. Hed used this previously for other international payments. 
The account details given by the supplier were for a payment service provider in China, 
which I will refer to as A.
After sending the payment, Mr U was told by the supplier that the payment hadnt arrived. 
The supplier sent him evidence which he said showed the Police in China had frozen his 
bank account. He said the Police had made the accusation that A had made the onward 
transfer to the suppliers own bank C using illegal funds linked to gambling.
In support of these comments, the supplier provided Mr U with some photos. The photos 
showed a document (in Chinese) saying that an account with bank C had been frozen by the 
police. The supplier also provided a photo showing the outside of a police station with an 
open door, and what appeared to be a picture of a police officer sitting with his back turned 
to the camera.
Based on what the supplier had told him, Mr U was concerned that Remitly UK and its 
Chinese partner might have deposited illegal funds to the recipient, and that this had 
resulted in the suppliers account being frozen pending police investigation. 
He reported what had happened to Remitly and Remitly contacted A to find out what had 
happened. It confirmed to Remitly that the funds had been successfully deposited. It also 
confirmed receipt to the correct account, in accordance with Mr Us payment instruction. 
Given the recipient was denying receipt, Remitly asked A to attempt to recall the funds. 
However, Remitly has since explained to Mr U that it had been impossible to recover any of 
the money because the onward transfer from A was already completed. 
Mr U accepted that the money had likely reached the right destination. But he wanted to 
prove to the Chinese police that the funds were not of an illegal origin. He asked Remitly to 
provide formal proof of the legitimacy of the funds it had sent, or if it could not do so then to 
restart the process of recovering his money. 
Remitly provided him with an electronic confirmation showing his payment had been 
successfully made, in the form of a screenshot from its systems. But it said it hadnt been 
able to recover the funds. 
Remitly also said that it couldnt be responsible for the supplier not providing the agreed 
goods. It explained its service was intended for personal use only, to send money to friends 
and family overseas. It said its terms and conditions prohibited UK account holders from 
sending money for commercial or business purposes. 
When hed sent the disputed payment Mr U had selected a payment reason of Family 
Support (which perhaps explained why the business use hadnt previously come to light). 
However, Mr Us explained this was just something hed chosen by mistake when sending 
the payment and it was always intended as a payment for goods for his business.
Mr U didnt think the electronic records or screenshot information would be sufficient to 
persuade the Chinese authorities. He asked us to look at whether Remitly had done enough 
to assist him.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr U. But she didnt think Remitly needed to do more. 
She thought the evidence showed Remitly had correctly carried out Mr Us payment 
instruction in transferring the money to the specified account with A. She didnt think it could 
be held responsible for what might have happened after the supplier transferred the money 
from A to C. It was unclear how Remitly could have had any responsibility for the bank 
account with C being frozen.
She also noted that Remitly had already provided a payment record showing the account 
with A that Mr Us funds had been sent to. Shed checked with Remitly if it could provide 
more, but it had explained that it did not have the facility to provide more than it had already 
given Mr U. 
Finally, the investigator said she couldnt ask Remitly to provide evidence of where the funds 
had gone after the supplier had transferred them out of his account with A. She explained 
this wasnt data that Remitly would be able to share even if it had access to it, because it 
related to what had happened after Remitlys part of the transaction and related to an 
account with a different financial institution and held by another person (the supplier).
Mr U was didnt accept this was a fair outcome and asked for his case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can appreciate the frustration of the situation Mr U faces here. Hes explained he was 
making the payment to buy goods to help his small business and the loss of this money has 
had an impact on him.
I have carefully considered all the evidence available to me. The evidence isnt sufficient for 
me to know with any certainty what happened after the money was transferred onwards from 
the suppliers account with A. 
But in any event, I am only able to consider Remitlys role here. I dont find the suppliers 
photos or messages are compelling evidence to show Remitly was at fault.Remitly has taken steps to provide Mr U with evidence showing the payment was made in 
line with his instructions and successfully received. I dont think Mr U now disputes the 
payment was received, but he wants Remitly to help the supplier unfreeze his account 
with C. This isnt something I could reasonably require of Remitly  I am not persuaded it is 
responsible for whatever may or may not have happened to the suppliers account with C. 
I know Mr U would like Remitly to provide something more formal to definitively show the 
funds were not of illegal origin. It isnt completely clear what evidence might suffice for this 
purpose, and Mr U hasnt been able to establish this because when he called the number 
given to him by the supplier for the Chinese Police officer, they could not speak English. But 
Im satisfied that what Remitly has already provided is appropriate and does show the 
payment origin and destination. 
That evidence is sufficient to show the payment Mr U made was sent from a financial firm 
regulated in the UK - rather than from some other source as suggested by the allegations 
made by the supplier. Remitly says it cannot provide more than this. I find this plausible and I 
do not think I can fairly ask it to do more than its systems enable it to do here.
So I dont require Remitly to do more here, and I dont find it is at fault.
In closing, Id note that there is little evidence to show that what the supplier has told Mr U is 
indeed genuine. Mr U has sent money to that individual and the funds are known to have 
been received into the correct account. The supplier is refusing to send Mr U what hed 
ordered, saying his own bank account has now been blocked. But Ive seen no convincing 
evidence that this is linked to the payment Mr U sent via Remitly. Id urge Mr U to be 
cautious and consider seeking advice from a trusted independent source before making any 
further payments to that individual. If Mr U now believes he has been the victim of a scam 
committed by the supplier, he should consider reporting the matter to ActionFraud in the UK.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Us complaint about 
Remitly U.K., Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman