DRN-3544448
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events from RSAs final response to Mrs D in November 2019 up 
until the date it provided its submission for this complaint, to our service in November 2021. 
Any reference to events outside of these timeframes is purely for contextual reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs D feels strongly about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive read 
and considered everything she has said very carefully in reaching my decision.  
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs D and by RSA and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate what Mrs D has said about the claim, the length of time if has taken and 
the disruption it has caused to her life. But its not unusual for claims of this nature to 
take some time to be resolved. So, this means I wont be holding RSA responsible for 
delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable. 
Having looked at the journey of the claim after November 2019, I do think RSA could 
have been more proactive in progressing matters.
Level monitoring took place at the property until August 2020.  This isnt 
unreasonable, as RSA needed to see if movement was still occurring, but a meeting 
to discuss its findings wasnt in place until March 2022  around nine months after 
monitoring was complete. 
I think RSA should have been proactive in arranging temporary repairs at Mrs Ds 
property. RSAs site notes from July 2019 had already acknowledged the need for 
temporary repairs. But I can see Mrs D had to chase RSA for repairs to take place.
Ive considered RSAs comments that Mrs D wanted full repairs, but it could only offer 
temporary repairs at that time. However, this was only offered when Mrs D chased 
RSA. And even if these had been arranged amicably there is still a significant period 
where there were delays in the claim progressing. 
The original repair method was shown to have failed due to ground investigations not 
being completed previously to the correct depth. And this had resulted in the claim 
continuing. So, Mrs Ds confidence in RSAs handling of the claim had already been 
impacted. I think the ongoing impact from the claim having to continue would be 
stressful and I think RSA had an opportunity to correct matters and should have done 
so proactively to bring them to a conclusion as quickly as possible. But considering 
what Ive set out above, I dont think it did this and the claim has suffered from further 
delays as a result.
RSA says sloping reported in the Kitchen is historic. However, Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me this is historic and owing to a cause other than subsidence. So, I 
think its reasonable RSA address this as part of the claim.
Ive considered Mrs Ds thoughts on the level of compensation our investigator 
recommended. Its clear from what shes told our service. that RSAs handling of the 
claim and the avoidable delays has caused her substantial distress and upset.  For 
this she has my natural sympathy. 
However, considering everything Ive set out above, I think the £1,200 compensation 
recommend by our investigator is in the region of what I believe adequately reflects 
the trouble and upset shes been caused by RSA. So, I am not therefore minded to 
increase this amount.
I can see RSA have acted on our investigators recommendation for a point of 
contact within RSA, not just via the adjuster. Should there be a need to change the 
point of contact, Id reasonably expect it to keep Mrs D proactively informed.
Im aware there are ongoing issues and Mrs D remains unsatisfied with RSA. 
However, where situations keep developing, we cant keep amending and adapting 
our assessments to suit. If Mrs D remains unhappy, she will need raise a further 
complaint RSA in the first instance and may then decide to refer it to our service if 
unhappy with its response.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right RSA should:
Provide Mrs D with a direct point of contact within RSA for her claim.
Consider the sloping in the Kitchen under the claim.
Pay Mrs D £1,200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman