DRN-2765431
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that Society of Lloyd's unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr M, a director or H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters.  
What happened
H held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. H claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Lloyds turned down Hs claim. It said it had considered the claim under the core business 
interruption section of the policy and a number of extensions, but none provided cover for 
closure in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds, H brought its complaint to our service. H said the 
policy covered pandemics and only didnt provide cover because Covid-19 wasnt around 
when the policy was written. However, it thought that as the policy covered Plague this 
should be interpreted to cover Covid-19. H also thought that its business was closed due to 
Covid-19 which was an emergency in its vicinity. 
Our investigator looked into Hs claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think 
the policy provided cover. 
H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H has also raised concerns regarding the sale of the policy. In this decision I am only 
considering Hs complaint about Lloyds declining the claim. If H remains unhappy with the 
sale of the policy it would need to raise that separately. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim. Id like to reassure H that I have considered all of its policy but 
have only commented on the parts I find more relevant.
Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers loss resulting from an occurrence of a listed 
disease occurring at Hs business premises. The list of covered diseases doesnt include 
Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Hs policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
Plague is one of the diseases listed as being covered by the policy. Ive thought about Hs 
point that Plague should include cover for Covid-19 but I dont think it does. In the 
Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed separately, 
indicating that they are different diseases. The medical definition of Plague says that it is a 
specific disease caused by bacteria, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. Moreover, if the intention 
of the policy was for Plague to cover a pandemic rather than the disease itself, then the 
policy wouldnt need to include many of the other diseases, meaning the list would be 
redundant. Therefore, even if someone at Hs business premises had Covid-19, I dont think 
this extension provides cover for Hs claim.
Public emergency
The extension for public emergency covers loss resulting from:
the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I understand that H 
disagrees with the findings, but I think the High Court judgment on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Hs complaint as the court considered a similar 
extension to the one in Hs policy and that part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the 
Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity
of the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government...
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to
provide cover in the event of an emergency in Hs local area. And I dont think the 
Governments response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency in the vicinityof H as opposed to the country as a whole. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide cover 
for Hs claim either.
I recognise this isnt the outcome H was hoping for and understand it has paid for a policy for 
many years. However, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly 
require Lloyds to pay Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman