DRN-3326234
The complaint
Mr K complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited unfairly applied end of contract charges 
when he handed a car back following voluntary termination of a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr K entered into a 59-month hire purchase agreement for a used car. 
The car was around five years and had a mileage of 50,595.
In January 2020 Mr K decided to voluntary terminate the agreement and hand the car back. 
Startline made arrangements for the car to be collected from Mr Ks home. When the car 
was collected it was inspected and various scratches and chips to the cars bodywork were 
noted. Mr K signed the inspection report.
Five days after it had been collected, the car was inspected for a second time. This report 
noted the following damage and costs to repair:
Front alloy cap corrosion/rust £20.95
Front alloy wheel scuffed £60
Front door mirror housing scuffed £42
Upholstery soiled £50
Quarter panel dent £48
Rear alloy wheel £60
Rear alloy centre cap £20.95
Rear bumper  scratch £125
Quarter panel dent £48
Rear alloy centre cap £20.95
Front door mirror housing - scuffed £42
Front alloy centre cap right £20.95
Front alloy wheel paint flaking £60
The total cost of the damage amounted to £618.80.
Mr K complained to Startline about the end of contract charges. He disputed the damage 
that had been noted in the second inspection report. Startline reviewed the charges and 
agreed that the costs of repairing an older car would be significantly less than a newer one. 
It reduced the charges for the damage to the car to £151.90 for the following items:
Rear alloy wheel scuffed (L) - £60.00
Front alloy centre cap corrosion (L) - £20.95
Rear alloy centre cap corrosion - £20.95
Upholstery soiled - £50.00
Mr K remained unhappy about the charges. Startline said although it accepted an older car 
would have a certain amount of wear and tear it was satisfied that the remaining charges 
were fair.
Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator recommended his complaint should be 
upheld. She said taking into account the age and mileage of the car she didnt think the 
damage to the car was beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. Our 
investigator said Startline should waive the outstanding charges of £151.90.
Mr K agreed with our investigators view but Startline disagreed. It said the age and mileage 
of the car had already been taken into account when it had reduced the charges from 
£618.80 to £151.90. It said the remaining charges were fair and were for damage that was 
beyond fair wear and tear for a vehicle of that age.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the car was noted to have damage to its bodywork, bumper and alloys I shall 
concentrate on the four items of damage that Startline says its fair for Mr K to be liable for 
and which amount to £151.90. So, thats the damage to the alloys and the staining on the 
upholstery.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement, Ive seen that it was Mr Ks responsibility to keep 
the car in a good and serviceable condition. And if Mr K chose to return the car and 
terminate the agreement then he would be liable for the cost of any repairs required to put 
the car back in a good condition.
At the point the car was returned to Startline it was around nine years old and the mileage 
was 82,672. I think its accepted that a car of that age and mileage would be expected to 
have signs of wear and tear. So, the issue for me to decide is whether the damage found to 
the alloys and the staining to the seat was beyond what would reasonably be expected for a 
car of this age and use.
Startline says it has considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations 
(BVRLA) guidelines when reaching its view that the damage its charged is beyond fair 
wear and tear. These guidelines set the industry standard for what is and isnt considered to 
be fair wear and tear. However, they are intended to apply to a new car being returned after 
the first credit agreement so arent designed to apply to older vehicles that are already used. 
Ive looked at the photos that have been supplied for the alloys and the stained seat. I accept 
the photos show that the rear alloy (left) has scuffing to the rim and that the front and rear 
alloys centre caps have some signs of corrosion. However, when considering the age and 
use of this car Im satisfied that some damage to these parts would be expected. There 
wouldnt be an expectation they would be fault free unlike a newer car. Looking at this 
evidence, I dont think these photos show damage thats excessive but rather that it has 
arisen from fair wear and tear over time.
Looking at the photo of the upholstery, I again accept there are marks on one of the seats 
the cause of which is unclear. But a car thats been used regularly over a nine-year period 
wouldnt reasonably be expected to have mark free upholstery. I dont agree that the staining 
on this seat is beyond what would be expected as fair wear and tear of a vehicle of this age.
So, for the reasons given, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint as I consider the damage that is 
being charged for all arises under what would reasonably be considered as fair wear and 
tear. Putting things right
Im asking Startline to waive the remaining £151.90 from the end of contract charges.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. I am asking Startline Motor 
Finance Limited to waive the remaining £151.90 from the end of contract charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman