DRN-1787983
The complaint
Mr G complains about how China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd handled and settled a claim 
he made under his home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr G holds a buildings and contents insurance policy, which is provided by China Taiping 
Insurance (UK) Co Ltd  hereafter referred to as CTI.
On 5 April 2019, during a period of extremely bad weather and heavy rain, Mr G said he 
noticed water ingress to his living room and kitchen ceilings. 
Prior to this period of bad weather Mr G stated that his roof was in excellent condition as it 
was only around six years old. So, he thought the water ingress was weather related. And he 
contacted CTI in order to make a claim under his policy.
CTI instructed Mr G to obtain a cause of damage report and quotes to repair the damage. 
He contacted a local roofing company, who he said confirmed that the leak had been caused 
by storm damage affecting his roof.
CTI appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as T, to undertake an inspection of the 
damage and assist it in dealing with the claim. T visited Mr Gs property on 9 July 2019 to 
determine the cause of damage.
T inspected Mr Gs property from ground level using binoculars. But it didnt observe any 
storm damage to the roof. Instead, it felt the water ingress had been caused by wear and 
tear and poor workmanship of the roof. And it said wind-driven rain was highlighting the 
defect in the roof coverings. T also told CTI that, as the water ingress wasnt a sudden and 
one-off incident, the damage wasnt covered by the accidental damage clause of Mr Gs 
policy. So, CTI declined to settle Mr Gs claim.
Mr G refuted what T had said about the condition of his roof and he was unhappy with how 
CTI proposed to resolve his claim. So, he complained. He felt, as thered been adverse 
weather at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage to his 
property. And, because his roof was only around six years old, he thought the leak couldnt 
have happened due to wear and tear or poor workmanship. 
Mr G asked CTI to settle his claim for damage. And he raised concerns that T hadnt 
undertaken a thorough inspection of his roof as it had based its opinion on the cause of 
damage using binoculars and photographs, which had been taken from ground level only. 
And he said the loss adjuster had told him that roof damage wasnt his area of expertise. But 
CTI maintained its position and told him it wouldnt meet his claim as wear and tear and poor 
workmanship were excluded under his policy.   
Being dissatisfied with how CTI had dealt with his complaint Mr G referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded there was a storm at around the time the damage occurred. And they thought the damage was, most likely, due to the wear and tear and poor 
workmanship issues identified by T in its report. Overall, they thought CTI had dealt with Mr 
Gs complaint fairly and not made an error in declining his claim. But Mr G disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can see Mr G has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions about why he believes CTI should meet his claim. I want to assure him that Ive 
read everything hes sent us. I hope Mr G will understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. 
My role is to assess whether I think CTI made a mistake in deciding Mr Gs claim, or treated 
him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything he and CTI have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr G 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Mr G would like CTI to cover the damage to his property because he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy with CTI provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be successful, Mr G would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Gs policy doesnt define the word storm. 
This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When looking a wind 
speed, we generally considers wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a 
storm. So, this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm 
conditions on or around the date of Mr Gs claim.
Mr G has stated that the water ingress occurred on 5 April 2019 during a period of very bad 
weather. But, having reviewed weather records for Mr Gs locality from 30 March to 8 April 
2019 I cant see any wind speeds recorded of 47mph or above. While Ive taken into account what Mr G told our service about the weather at around the 
time the damage occurred the highest wind speeds, Ive seen recorded were 35 mph on 5 
April 2019  when Mr G noticed the damage to his property. I can see our investigator 
considered whether a named storm was present at around the time Mr Gs property 
sustained damage. But they couldnt find evidence of one.
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was a storm at the time the damage 
occurred. And, as Im not persuaded that a storm occurred around the time of the damage, I 
dont need to go on to address questions two or three as outlined above. So, I cant uphold 
Mr Gs storm claim.
As Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr Gs policy excludes damage that 
happens due to wear and tear and poor workmanship. This in common with most home 
insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen  and something 
wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of an exclusion it has to show this is how 
the damage happened. In this case CTI relies on Ts opinion that the damage was caused 
by wear and tear and poor workmanship of the roof. I know Mr G refutes this. So, Ive 
carefully studied the information T provided CTI.
T stated that it wasnt able to find any evidence of storm damage to the roof. It did, however, 
observe that the lead flashing directly underneath the bedroom window had at least one 
split. T said this had been caused due to the lead being laid too long as opposed to it being 
storm related damage. 
T said the lead flashing being laid too long had caused it to expand and contract over a 
period of time and weaken to form a split. And it thought this was the most likely source of 
the water ingress into the ground floor lounge. T also observed the tiles below the lead 
flashing were out of line and held in place with lead tingles. 
T inspected the roof above the kitchen area, where the second leak had been discovered by 
Mr G. It said there was no sign of any storm damage to the roof covering or flashings. But it 
noted a row of roofing tiles had slipped down from the Velux window flashing detail above, 
which would allow wind-driven rain to gain access under the Velux window flashing and then 
into the underfelt area thus causing water ingress.
I understand Mr G has concerns with Ts assessment of his roof. He said T told him he didnt 
have expertise in roof damage. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me this 
comment was made. I say this because T is a qualified Chartered Surveyor with over 30 
years experience in the construction and insurance industries. And inspecting roofs and 
assessing roof damage claims is typical work undertaken by a loss adjuster. So, Im not 
persuaded that T was insufficiently qualified or experienced to provide an opinion on the 
cause of the roof damage here.
Mr G has also questioned the thoroughness of Ts inspection. And hes raised concerns it 
inspected his roof from ground level. But it isnt unusual for loss adjusters not to go up onto a 
policyholders roof due to health and safety, and other, reasons. 
Based on the report Ive seen, Im satisfied T undertook an appropriate and adequate 
inspection of Mr Gs property. A number of photographs were taken of the relevant areas of 
the roof and property interior, which show split lead and slipped tiles on Mr Gs roof. And, 
impartially, I think the photographs T took support its findings that the cause of the water 
ingress was poor workmanship and wear and tear of the roof. Lead doesnt split due to a one-off storm event. Correctly applied and maintained lead 
flashing should be weather resistant and unaffected by storm related weather  although it 
will deteriorate over time when exposed to extremes of weather. 
Here, Im satisfied that the lead split due to poor workmanship as it was laid too long. I also 
think tiles can slip over time when no longer being properly secured. And, again, Im not 
persuaded tiles slipping was due to a one-off storm event. 
I can see that Mr G has been given the opportunity of providing evidence to show that the 
cause of damage was weather related. But while he has provided two quotations he hasnt 
provided any evidence that supports his assertion that the damage was caused by a storm 
or which discredits Ts opinion or findings. 
I know Mr G will disagree with me but I think its, most likely, that the adverse weather he 
experienced in April 2019 highlighted the existing defects with the roof. And this explains 
why there was water ingress each time there was wind-driven rain.  
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this decision. I know he feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in his complaint. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied CTI has shown our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage, most 
likely, occurred due to poor workmanship and wear and tear of the roof. So, Im satisfied CTI 
applied the wear and tear exclusion correctly. It follows that I cant conclude that its decision 
about his claim was unreasonable. And this means it wouldnt be fair to require it to pay this 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman