DRN-3749750
The complaint
Ms K has complained about her property insurer QIC Europe Ltd in respect of a claim she 
made when there was a fire at her home.
What happened
There was a fire at Ms Ks home in July 2021. QIC accepted the claim, undertook some 
emergency clearance works and began considering what was needed to reinstate the 
property. Ms K was initially unhappy with three aspects of QICs plans:
It said it would paint some ceilings, whereas Ms K thought they should be refinished.
It said it would clean the windows, whereas Ms K thought they should be replacing them.
It said it would pay just 50% towards re-tiling Ms Ks bathroom, whereas she felt it should 
pay for all the retiling work as it only needed doing because it had damaged her bath.
In early October 2021 QIC set out its final position on these aspects. In short it felt it was 
reasonable for it to first look to paint the ceilings and clean the windows. And regarding tiling, 
it said the policy allowed for it to only settle for damaged items, even where they formed part 
of a matching set, the remaining items of which were not damaged. So it felt its offer of 50% 
was fair and reasonable. Ms K remained unhappy.
Our Investigator thought that QICs position regarding the ceiling and windows was 
reasonable. But regarding the tiling, he felt it should be liable for all that work. 
QIC disagreed. It said it was replacing the bath under the cover, not because it had 
damaged it. So it felt it could reasonably rely on the policy wording in dealing with the tiling 
which would be affected by the baths removal.  
Ms K was unhappy as she still believed the ceilings and windows needed replacing. The 
claim in those respects continued and the situation regarding these, and other items, 
evolved. Our Investigator explained that, under this complaint reference, we could only look 
at what the situation and respective positions of the parties were in October 2021.
Ms Ks complaint was passed to me to consider. Noting the relevant period for consideration, 
my provisional findings were: 
Ceilings and windows
As I mentioned above, a lot has happened regarding these issues since October 2021. But 
as things stood in October 2021, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for QIC to be 
looking to repair or reinstate these damaged items. An insurer will usually look to repair in 
the first instance, opting only to replace if a repair is not possible for some reason. In 
October 2021 there was no expert evidence, from a surveyor or similar, which showed repair 
was likely impossible. I know that, regarding the windows, Ms K did have an opinion from the 
company which had fitted the windows originally. But I can understand why QIC chose to 
rely instead on the views of its assessor and contractors, that the windows would respond to 
cleaning. I know QIC was open to reviewing its position on these items as the repairs 
progressed and that is what Id expect of it. I think that as of October 2021, QICs position 
regarding the ceilings and windows was fair and reasonable. 
Bath and tiling
QIC has pointed to policy wording to justify its stance on this issue. But Ms Ks point is that 
the policy shouldnt apply because the tiles will need replacing, not because of the fire, but 
because of QICs repairers. So Ive considered whether it is most likely that QIC damaged 
the bath necessitating its removal (which will, in turn, damage some tiles causing the 
bathroom to need retiling).
Ms K says that QICs repairers stood in the bath and stored items in it which caused it to 
become scratched. QIC doesnt seem to deny that its agents stood in the bath and stored 
items in it. QIC even seems to accept this may have caused some scratching. But it believes 
the heavy/multiple scratching to the baths surface was pre-existing. QIC said this is evident 
because soot is in the scratches, and indeed this is why it needed replacing  because it 
wouldnt respond to cleaning. 
Ive reviewed the available photos and what both sides have said. Having done so Im most 
persuaded by the position put forward by QIC. Ive seen a photo with heavy soot staining to 
the bottom of the bath where there doesnt seem to be any scratching through the soot. 
There is then a photo showing the heavy staining removed, and a myriad of scratches, now 
showing as black lines, are visible. So, whether or not there may be some scratches caused 
by QICs repairers at points in the bath, in this one area there is evidence of scratches that 
seem to have existed before the fire occurred, as soot has settled over and into them. The 
scratches seem quite fine and I think they probably werent visible with normal use, including 
cleaning of the bath. But that the soot deposits have highlighted them. I dont doubt that it 
would be impossible to clean the bath to its pre-incident state.   
Which means I think that QICs offer to replace the bath under the policy is fair and 
reasonable. It follows that QIC can treat the claim that arises as a result of the tiling being 
damaged by removal of the bath in line with the policy terms. The policy allows QIC to 
decline claims for undamaged parts of matching sets. So, strictly speaking, QICs liability for 
tiling would be limited to the tiling which will be damaged due to removal of the bath. But, in 
line with the approach often taken by this service in complaints about undamaged parts of 
matching sets, QIC has offered to pay for 50% of the cost of retiling the area of undamaged 
tiling. I think that is fair and reasonable of it. 
Id add though that I think QIC should check its scope in this respect. As far as I can see 
currently it is offering 50% of retiling the bathroom as a whole. As Ive explained above, the 
fair and reasonable settlement for this is for QIC to be liable for 100% of the retiling for tiles 
damaged by removal of the bath and for that liability to then reduce to 50% for replacing the 
remaining undamaged, matching tiles in the rest of the bathroom. 
QIC said its scope already includes an allowance of 50% of the costs for retiling the 
bathroom. Which, it said allows for any tiles that are damaged when the bath is removed.
Ms K said the bath had no scratches before and had been cleaned in line with 
manufacturers instructions. She said a witness saw the contractor damage her bath. Ms K 
said the replacement bath offered by QIC is not like-for-like. She said she was disappointed 
as I didnt seem to have taken account of reports shed provided to show the ceilings and 
windows needed replacing.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen QICs scope. I know it shows a cost for 50% of retiling the bathroom. I explained 
exactly that in my provisional decision. QIC has, I think, misunderstood my point. It is liable 
for the full cost of replacing any tiles damaged in the removal of the bath. It cannot limit its 
liability for any damaged tiles to 50% of their replacement cost. That would mean Ms K 
would have to contribute towards their replacement. As the policy covers their loss, that 
would be unfair and unreasonable. The situation is different regarding the remaining 
undamaged but matching tiles. For those QICs liability is fairly and reasonably limited to 
50% of their replacement cost. Meaning Ms K will be liable for the other 50%. So a scope 
that only allows for 50% of all retiling doesnt take into account that, in respect of some of 
that tiling, QIC is liable for 100% of costs. To ensure this is clear  if 10 tiles out of 100 are 
damaged, QIC will need to allow for 100% of the cost for replacing the 10 damaged tiles, 
and 50% of the cost for replacing the other 90. That will give a different figure to 50% of the 
entire cost for replacing all 100 tiles. Of course, QIC wont know, until the bath is taken out, 
how many tiles will be damaged so 50% for everything is not a bad starting point. It certainly 
gives Ms K a good indication, if only a few tiles are damaged, of what region the maximum 
payment is she might have to contribute. But my point about QIC needing to review and 
amend its scope will remain, because it and Ms K sharing equal liability for the cost of all of 
the retiling, rather than just in respect of replacing undamaged but matching tiles, is not a fair 
and reasonable end point for the claim.  
I know Ms K took care of her bath. I dont doubt she cleaned it only as directed. But even 
with normal and careful use items sometimes suffer damage. Conversely, just because 
something is used in a way that it shouldnt be, doesnt mean it will suffer damage. I know 
Ms K had a witness who saw the bath being misused. And as I said provisionally, QIC hasnt 
denied that misuse. The question for me to answer  in order to determine if QIC had to 
replace the bath under the policy or outside of it  was is it most likely that the bath suffered 
damage due to QICs contractors misuse. For the reasons stated provisionally, I dont think 
it was. 
As I noted provisionally, Ive only looked at the situation in the run up to and the complaint 
points which then existed as of, early October 2021. The claim, and settlement for it, then 
progressed after that time, including in respect of what type of bath QIC was prepared to pay 
for. And further evidence was provided regarding the ceilings and windows. I cant take any 
of that detail into account. In respect of what was known in early October 2021, regarding 
the ceilings, windows and bath, including the liability for retiling costs, Im satisfied by what 
I said provisionally. In summary, I dont think QIC failed Ms K regarding its claim position as 
of October 2021 in respect of the ceilings, windows and bath. But, as already explained, I do 
think some review and recosting regarding the sharing of liability for tiling costs is needed. 
Im satisfied though that this one failure has not held up the claim or prevented it from 
progressing. So whilst I know Ms K has felt prevented from enjoying her home, I dont think, 
based on what Ive seen and found, I can fairly and reasonably blame QIC for that.  
 
Putting things right
I require QIC to revise its scope of work, as and when the number of damaged tiles is 
known, to show it is 100% liable for retiling the tiles damaged by removal of the bath, and 
50% liable for retiling the remaining undamaged, matching bathroom tiles.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman