DRN-2951216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about their insurer, AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) for their 
commercial property insurance policy. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy at AmTrust reducing their 
claim for damage to their property, because they said that the property was under-insured.
 
Mr and Mrs H took out their policy through a comparison website operated by an insurance 
intermediary (S). This decision relates to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against AmTrust, not 
their complaint against S.
References to AmTrust include their agents used to manage and assess claims.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a rental property when in January 2020 water escaped and caused 
damage to the kitchen and bathroom. They made a claim under their policy, but AmTrust 
reduced the value of the buildings element of the claim by 23.1% because in their view the 
property was under-insured by that degree. AmTrust used a rebuild calculator to estimate 
the value of the property to arrive at the extent of the under-insurance.
 
Mr and Mrs H werent aware that they needed to use a rebuild calculator to estimate the 
insurance value of their property. They estimated the value of their property at £85,000 
based on what they thought was the likely market value and had stated a value of £100,000 
when they applied for the policy, to err on the side of caution.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy at their claim settlement being reduced. They asked for their 
claim to be settled in full, without the proportionate reduction. As Mr and Mrs H were 
unhappy at AmTrusts decision (as the insurer) to reduce their claim our investigator asked 
AmTrust to consider this as a separate complaint. 
AmTrust rejected the complaint, saying that under the terms of the policy if the sum insured 
was less than 85% of what it would have cost to replace the whole of the property, then Mr 
and Mrs H would be liable to bear a proportionate share of the loss. AmTrust calculated the 
rebuild cost of the property to be £130,000 using the Building Cost Information Service 
(BCIS) of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RCIS). This meant the £100,000 
figure put by Mr and Mrs H was only 76.9% of the rebuild cost. As this was less than 85%, 
AmTrust said that Mr and Mrs Hs proportionate share was 23.1%.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy at AmTrusts rejection of their complaint and our investigator 
considered their complaint to this service. The investigator upheld the complaint. He 
concluded that while the evidence provided by AmTrust indicated that the property was 
under-insured, he didnt think AmTrust had acted fairly in applying a proportionate reduction. 
Although the policy was taken out through S, the investigator concluded that AmTrust 
needed to ask clear questions to enable them to decide whether to provide a policy. AmTrust 
simply provided a Statement of Fact and Policy Schedule based on the information supplied 
by Mr and Mrs H. AmTrust didnt provide a clear indication of the basis of the information 
they required. The investigator concluded that had AmTrust asked a clear question (on the 
buildings sum to be insured) they would still have provided the policy, but at a higher 
premium (had Mr and Mrs H supplied a higher figure). The Investigator concluded that 
AmTrust should be able to charge any higher premium based on what it would have been 
had the sum insured been set correctly, but should also settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full 
and pay interest on the additional sum.
AmTrust disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said that a clear question was asked about the rebuild value for prospective 
policyholders to answer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AmTrust has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs H.
  
The main element of Mrs and Mr Hs complaint is that they were treated unfairly because, 
when they took out their policy, they werent told how to determine the buildings sum 
insured, based on the rebuild cost. From the evidence Ive seen and what AmTrust have told 
us, they dont provide any further detail or clarification to the question of what would be the 
rebuild cost (for example links to ways to calculate or to check the figure) either to 
prospective policyholders or to S. In any event, as AmTrust confirmed to us, S isnt an 
appointed representative of them, although they do agree that S can offer AmTrust 
insurance products to prospective policyholders.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, AmTrust said they used the BCIS tool from 
RICS to calculate the rebuild value of Mr and Mrs Hs property and to conclude the property 
was under-insured. If thats the basis for AmTrust determining the rebuild value of a 
property, then I think its reasonable for that to be made clear when asking prospective 
policyholders to provide information when applying to take out a policy. Mr and Mrs H said 
that had they been told about the BCIS tool (or any other rebuild calculator) they would have 
used it when taking out the policy (and at subsequent renewals).
 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded that AmTrust didnt ask a sufficiently 
clear question in respect of the rebuild value of the property when Mr and Mrs H were asked 
to provide a buildings sum insured. Consequently, I dont think theyve acted fairly in 
applying the proportionate reduction to Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
To put things right I think AmTrust should settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full, without applying 
the proportionate reduction (less any payments that theyve already made). Had Mr and Mrs 
H been made aware of the need to use the BCIS tool (and thereby arrived at a higher, more 
realistic rebuild value) its likely that they would have had to pay a higher premium for the 
buildings cover element of their policy. I think its fair and reasonable that AmTrust should be 
able to charge any such higher premium (over the whole period of the policy), if they are to 
settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
 
I require AmTrust Europe Limited to: 
Settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full (without applying the 23.1% proportionate 
reduction) taking account of any payments already made and net of any higher 
premium (over the whole period of the policy) that would have been due had Mr and 
Mrs H provided a higher buildings sum insured figure from using the BCIS tool.Pay interest on the additional sum to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full at 8% simple 
from the date that they originally settled the claim to the date they settle Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim in full.
AmTrust Europe Limited must pay the additional sum to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in full 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision.  If 
they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the sum from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman