DRN-2172118
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined her 
claim on the joint life assurance policy she held with her late husband, cancelled the policy 
from the start and refunded the premiums.
What happened
On 24 July 2015 Mr and Mrs B applied for a joint decreasing term assurance policy with L&G 
which was accepted and started in August 2015.
Sadly in 2019, Mr B passed away. So Mrs B submitted a claim. To help its assessment of 
the claim, L&G requested information from Mr Bs GP. It became aware that Mr B had been 
recorded as a smoker historically. In particular, it was noted he was a user of e-cigarettes on 
21 July 2014 and that he was a social smoker in October 2015.
Given this, L&G felt Mr B had answered the following question incorrectly in his policy 
application:
During the last 12 months have you smoked any cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or used nicotine 
replacements? Mr B answered None at all.
L&G spoke to Mrs B about this to try to understand why Mr B had answered the question the 
way he had. Mrs B told them she didnt know why he filled out the form in the way he had or 
what he was advised. Mrs B said Mr B was not a regular smoker but would occasionally 
have the odd cigar. She said he might have occasionally used e-cigarettes instead of cigars 
but this wasnt to stop smoking as he was only ever a social smoker.
L&G decided Mr B had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing 
to share this information in the application form. It declined the claim, avoided his policy 
(cancelled the policy from the start) and refunded the premiums. But L&G gave Mrs B the 
option of continuing her part of the life assurance policy. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this decision and so she complained. But her complaint wasnt 
upheld by L&G. Mrs B then brought her concerns to our service. She didnt feel Mr B had 
intended to mislead L&G and noted he had declared other medical conditions which were 
asked about in the application.
L&G felt its categorisation of the misrepresentation was fair. It highlighted the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time it made its decision. This is called, Misrepresentation 
and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and 
Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019. 
I will refer to this as the code. The code states that information about a customers lifestyle 
is something that will be familiar to the customer. And so if they answer a question about 
their own lifestyle incorrectly, meaning they have made a misrepresentation, then they will 
need to be able to provide a credible explanation about why they did this, in order for the 
misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or reckless. L&G also noted that Mr B 
had declared himself a smoker of one cigar on another life assurance application hed taken 
out in September 2014. Mr B had also told L&G he was a social smoker on a previous life 
assurance application. It felt this showed Mr B understood the importance of providing an 
accurate answer.
After looking into things, our investigator felt, on balance, that Mr B had made a 
misrepresentation. But they thought this was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. 
So, they asked L&G to pay the claim proportionately, given it would have charged Mr B 
higher premiums. They also asked L&G to pay Mrs B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by declining her claim. L&G didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im genuinely very sorry for Mrs Bs loss and would like to offer my 
condolences.
Im aware Mrs B also complained to L&G about the service she received, but this isnt 
something shes asked our service to look into. So, I dont intend to comment on this further.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific and 
whether an agent (ie. a broker or advisor) was acting for the consumer. The code also says 
consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Where the misrepresentation is 
considered deliberate (the consumer knew it was relevant to the insurer and untrue or 
misleading) an insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums, providing the 
misrepresentation would have led to a different underwriting outcome. The code also notes 
that avoiding a policy should be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Where a misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the 
premiums, CIDRA says the misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the 
application being declined. If the insurer would have charged a higher premium, CIDRA 
states it should then proportionately settle the claim.
was there a misrepresentation?
In Mr Bs application form, L&G asked him about smoking in the last 12 months. I think the 
question made it clear that this included nicotine replacement products.
L&G thinks the evidence suggests Mr B was smoking in the 12 months prior to his 
application and so it should have been told about this. It thought this was a 
misrepresentation by Mr B.There is no evidence available to me from within the 12 month period referred to in Mr Bs 
application which confirms whether or not he was smoking. But only three days before the 
12-month period began Mr B told his GP that he was using e-cigarettes. A few months after 
he applied for the policy, Mr B was also recorded as a social smoker by his GP. When L&G 
asked Mrs B about Mr Bs smoking, she told it Mr B was not a regular smoker. But Mrs B 
agreed Mr B did smoke occasionally. Having listened to the call between Mrs B and L&G 
about the smoking, Im satisfied she didnt provide L&G with any information which would 
suggest Mr B changed his habits in the 12 month period before he applied for the policy. 
Taking all of this into account, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, I 
think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude its likely that Mr B smoked in the 12 months 
prior to completing his application.
Ive then looked at the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs application. After the application 
was completed, L&G wrote to Mr B asking him to check the details hed provided. He was 
asked to sign a form to confirm the information was correct or provide details of any 
amendments if not. The form advised Mr B If the answers on your application are not 
correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and the 
policy or policies cancelled. The documents he received included various warnings about 
the importance of checking the information. And Mr B signed to confirm his details were 
correct. Given this, Im satisfied that Mr B had direct access to his application, the questions 
asked and his answers. And I think he was given sufficient advice about the importance of 
ensuring these were correct. 
Taking everything into account, I think its fair that L&G said Mr B failed to take reasonable 
care when answering this question. 
was it fair for L&G to avoid the policy?
L&G categorised Mr Bs misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless and so it avoided the 
policy and refunded the premiums. I note that L&G gave Mrs B the option of continuing her 
policy  something I would expect it to do in these circumstances. But, having reviewed the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was fair to avoid Mr Bs policy  Ill explain 
why.
I agree the code states that since lifestyle information is usually more familiar and easier for 
customers to understand, customers need to give a particularly credible and convincing 
explanation for any misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or reckless. But Mr B 
is no longer with us, so hes not able to provide an explanation. And this isnt the same as 
providing an explanation that is not particularly credible or convincing. 
The code also states that the category of deliberate or reckless should be reserved for the 
most serious cases. Its not known how often Mr B was smoking at this time. Mrs B 
confirmed to L&G that Mr B was only ever a social smoker and looking at his GP records, 
there are clearly times where his habits changed, and he started using e-cigarettes. I agree 
with L&G that both count as smoking under the question it asked, but what this does 
evidence is that Mr Bs smoking habits varied. So, for L&G to say that Mr B deliberately 
misrepresented his smoking, Id expect very strong evidence that Mr B was smoking 
regularly enough in this period that he would have known his answer was wrong or did not 
care that it was wrong. 
I appreciate Mrs B discussed Mr Bs smoking with L&G on two occasions. Ive listened to 
these calls and Mrs B did say she didnt understand why Mr B answered none at all given 
he was a social smoker. But I note these comments were made after L&G told Mrs B what 
the GP records noted about Mr Bs smoking  something Mrs B seemed surprised by. Mrs B 
also told L&G she didnt know hed been using nicotine replacement products. So, Im not persuaded that Mrs B had an accurate understanding of Mr Bs smoking habits. I agree with 
L&G that at one point in the conversation Mrs B said Mr B would only smoke in social 
situations, so would go a couple of weeks without smoking. But given what Ive said above, I 
dont think this necessarily indicates Mr B was smoking every couple of weeks, nor that 
Mrs Bs comments necessarily applied to the 12 months L&G asked about. 
Mr B had made disclosures in previous life assurance applications that hed smoked one 
cigar and that he was an occasional smoker. I do think this shows Mr B understood the 
importance of answering these questions correctly. But I dont think it demonstrates Mr Bs 
incorrect answer in this application was intentional - there remain other possible 
explanations for this, such as Mr B misremembering when he last smoked. In the absence of 
this explanation from Mr B, overall, I think a fairer categorisation would be careless.
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, L&G should look at what it would have 
done had it had all of the information available to it at that time. 
If Mr B had answered yes to this question, hed have been given the option of answering 
yes  regularly or yes  occasionally. Based on the medical evidence discussed above, I 
think Mr B should have answered yes  occasionally. 
Ive seen underwriting guidance to show that had L&G known about Mr Bs smoking it would 
have given him smokers rates. This means it would have charged Mr B a higher premium, 
but it would still have offered him the policy. So, I dont think L&G acted fairly by avoiding the 
policy and not paying this claim. I therefore think L&G should now pay the claim 
proportionately in line with CIDRA, taking into account it would be due the premiums which it 
has since refunded. It should also pay 8% simple interest from the date it provided its 
original claims decision, until the date it makes the payment.
I also think L&G should pay Mrs B a further £300 to account for the inconvenience and 
distress caused to Mrs B by its unfair decline of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to:
Pay the claim proportionately in line with CIDRA and pay 8% simple interest from the 
date it provided its original claims decision, until the date it makes the payment. 
It may deduct the premiums it is owed from any payment due.
Pay Mrs B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Legal and General Assurance Society Limited considers it should deduct income tax from 
any 8% interest element of my award it may do so, but it should give Mrs B the necessary 
certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman