DRN-3438140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a Royalties Gold Account (RGA) in June 
2000 and a Select Platinum Account (SPA) in June 2015 by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity this decision does not cover the sale of the Royalties Account to Mrs D in 
September 1999 as this has not been raised with RBS, and so I cant consider it.
The sale of the RGA in June 2000.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were advised and pressured into taking out the RGA for better 
rates on an overdraft and mortgage, and it wasnt suitable for them. They say they thought 
they had to keep the product to keep their overdraft, which they couldnt afford to pay off.
RBS says that it was Mrs D who opened the RGA as a single account and that it did not 
provide advice or a recommendation about it and didnt pressure Mrs D into taking it out. 
RBS says it gave the information about the account to Mrs D and she chose to take it out 
based on the accounts costs and benefits.
I wasnt present in the discussion about the sale of the RGA so I cant know what was said. I 
can only look at the evidence available today.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ds honest recollections, I think their memory of this sale 
may be mistaken. 
I say this because RBS has provided evidence that Mrs D had already taken out an overdraft 
on her account before she opened the RGA, so she knew she didnt have to have the RGA 
to get one. And mortgages were widely available and advertised without having the need for 
a fee-paid account, and Mr and Mrs D also didnt take out a mortgage until 2002.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D wasnt pressured into taking out the RGA to get 
an overdraft or mortgage.
RBS has provided evidence about the benefits of the RGA, and this does show that Mrs D 
would be entitled to better rates on an overdraft or mortgage if she took one out, so RBS 
didnt do anything wrong if it told Mrs D that.
Mrs D had held a packaged bank account before the sale of the RGA. So, she was 
experienced in using the product and knew what they involved. And fee free accounts were 
widely advertised and available at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
RGA and she chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence that such as suitability checks to indicate that advice was given, 
or a recommendation made. And this service is aware that RBS sales at the time were non-
advised. So, I think its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale. And therefore, RBS 
was only required to provide enough information to Mrs D to make an informed decision 
about the RGA.
And I think it did. I say this because RBS says it gave her an information pack about it which 
contained the details. And Mrs D already held a packaged bank account so she would have 
understood what she was looking for in deciding to upgrade to the RGA.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in the sale of 
the RGA.
The sale of the SPA in June 2015. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they were moved to a new type of account and told they would save 
money through rewards, but they havent received them.
RBS says it stopped offering RGAs in 2015 and invited customers to move to SPAs if they 
wished to. And it says Mr and Mrs D chose to do so.
RBS has provided evidence the SPA did not at any time provide monetary rewards on a 
transactional basis. The rewards were associated with another RBS product that Mr and Mrs 
D held. So, in my view the rewards issue they raise is not associated with the sale of the 
SPA.
For the same reasons I gave above I think Mr and Mrs D as experienced users of packaged 
bank accounts knew they had a choice whether to move to the SPA and chose to do so. And 
they understood the product as they went on to make multiple use of the benefits. 
So, I dont think RBS did anything wrong in the migration of Mr and Mrs Ds account from the 
RGA to the SPA.
Other issues.
Mr and Mrs D have raised other issues which Ive considered for completeness.
Mr and Mrs D say that they thought they had to keep the RGA to receive the better rates on 
the overdraft and mortgage they used. But there is no evidence they were told this during the 
sales, and if they were unsure, they could have asked at any time.
They say that although the RGA and SPA offered discounts on products such as holidays 
and currency exchange, they were able to find cheaper alternatives. The terms and 
conditions of the RGA refer to the discount being against the price of products offered by 
their named supplier at a given time and doesnt say they will always be the cheapest 
available at any time. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they held another packaged bank account with similar benefits at the 
same time as the RGA, so they had duplicate cover. But Ive found above that the RGA was a non-advised sale. So, it was for Mr and Mrs D to cancel alternative cover they had if they 
didnt want it.
So, overall, although I know that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, I dont think RBS did 
anything wrong in these matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman