DRN-4273184
The complaint
Miss W complains about poor service and delays in Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds 
(Admiral) handling of her claim following an accident when driving, under her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W damaged her car when driving in May 2022. She contacted Admiral and it made 
arrangements for the repairs. The repairer couldnt take her car until June. But Admiral was 
unable to find a repairer that could repair her car sooner. She was told this type of repair 
would normally take two to five days. 
Miss W says Admiral was made aware her car had to be returned to the lease company on 
24 July. But it took until 19 August to complete the repairs, and she wasnt given any notice 
prior to this being completed, which caused further delays  
Miss W says she had to pay a daily fee to the lease company, as she couldnt return the car 
on time. In addition, the courtesy car rear doors wouldnt unlock, and the boot was difficult to 
open. This made it difficult for her as she has a young child with a car seat in the rear. She 
also discovered the bonnet wasnt closed correctly and had to stop on a dual carriage way to 
secure it. 
In its final complaint response Admiral says Miss Ws car was booked in for repairs on 27 
June 2022. The estimated completion date was 8 July. It says parts were ordered as soon 
as the repair estimate was authorised by its engineer. But there was a backlog on the 
manufacturers side with these parts. It says its repairer wasnt at fault for the delay and it 
isnt responsible for Miss Ws lease fees. 
Admiral offered £100 compensation for the faults with its courtesy car, the lack of notice prior 
to the completion of the repairs, and for sending Miss W another customers details. 
Miss W didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint in part. He says Admiral should pay £250 compensation in 
total for the issues described. He agreed with the business that it wasnt responsible for 
paying Miss Ws lease fees.   
Miss W says this doesnt resolve her complaint as she is still out of pocket as a result of 
errors on Admirals part. She asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It has been passed to me to decide.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint in part. Im not asking Admiral to 
pay the lease fees Miss W incurred. I understand this will come as a disappointment to her. 
But Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss Ws accident occurred on 12 May 2022, and she claimed to Admiral two days later 
using its online portal. The car was driveable and described as having some dents and 
scratches. Admiral appointed a repairer to fix the car shortly after. On 26 May I can see Miss 
W called to ask if another repairer could be used. Shed been told there were issues 
obtaining parts. The records say another repairer was contacted but had the same issues. It 
was agreed for the car to remain with the original garage. 
A call record from 21 July 2022 says Miss Ws vehicle was due back with the lease company 
in two days time. It says a fee will be incurred if it isnt returned. The notes say the repairs 
havent started yet. Its queried whether a cash in lieu payment could be provided to pay the 
lease company to deal with the repairs. The claim records say that the following day the 
repairers engineer needs to review and advise on alternative methods of dealing with the 
claim.
Miss W chased Admiral on 25 July 2022 to see what was happening with the repairs. It told 
her it was awaiting a response from the repairer. However, it confirmed she could continue 
to use the courtesy car, and be indemnified when driving it by Admiral, despite her policy 
now having expired.  
The next entry in the claim record is from 19 August 2022. This is when Miss W was told her 
car was ready to collect. 
I asked Admiral if it offered a cash in lieu payment to Miss W to allow the lease company to 
arrange the repairs. It responded to say there were no claim notes showing this was offered. 
Miss W says she paid around £300 in additional lease fees because of the delay in repairing 
her car. Ive thought about whether Admiral couldve done any more to speed up the repair 
process. 
When responding to my query about the cash payment, Admiral sent a copy of its full repair 
record. A note from July 2022 says one of the parts from Miss Ws car cant be found 
anywhere. The note shows a number of possibilities were tried to find an alternative source 
for the part needed. This also included a search using a publicly available online 
marketplace. The note says the part wasnt available via any of the sources Admirals agents 
tried. 
Im aware of the supply issues that Admiral has referred to. I accept this has been a problem 
for the industry. But we expect Admiral to consider all options. This includes trying different 
sources when order delays impact its ability to repair vehicles effectively and in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
From what Ive read I think efforts were made to source parts from different places, but 
unfortunately this wasnt possible here. It doesnt appear that the reference to a cash 
payment was followed up on. But its not clear that the lease company wouldve accepted a 
payment in lieu of repairs. Or if Admirals settlement offer wouldve covered the cost the 
lease company wouldve charged to arrange the repairs  if this was an option.  
Ive thought about Miss Ws comments that she wasnt told until around 2pm that her car 
needed collecting the same day, and she must return her courtesy car. This caused her 
distress as she couldnt arrange to collect the car at such short notice, and she was no 
longer insured to drive it. She also needed to liaise with the leasing company, as the car had 
to be returned to it. Miss W explains that she needed the courtesy car to collect her son from 
nursery, which caused her further distress. Admiral acknowledges that its repairer didnt communicate the completion date to Miss W. 
I think this point couldve been handled better by Admirals repairer. Its fair that it 
compensates Miss W for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused.
I asked Admiral if it could provide a call recording from when Miss W says its repairer spoke 
to her rudely. It says the garage is no longer one of its approved repairers and given the time 
elapsed theres no guarantee it will be available. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss Ws recollection of this call. In the circumstances I think its 
fair that Admiral compensates her for the distress this caused.  
In her submission to our service Miss W says she received an email from Admirals repairer 
that contained someone elses name, address, car details and registration. Shes concerned 
that her details couldve been passed to someone else. I can see from its final complaint 
response that Admiral says it informed its repairer of this issue. It says it had provided the 
information Miss W highlighted so it could investigate and prevent issues arising in future.
I can understand why Miss W was concerned about her information and whether it was 
secure. However, it hasnt been shown that her information has been shared with someone 
else. I think its reasonable that Admiral notified its repairer of this issue. 
Miss Ws courtesy car didnt have functioning rear doors, and the boot couldnt be opened 
without some difficulty. I acknowledge what Miss W says about the problems this caused her 
when trying to get a young child into a child seat in the rear of the car. This must have been 
frustrating and caused inconvenience. It must also have been distressing to have to stop the 
courtesy car on a dual carriage way in order to shut the bonnet correctly. I dont think its 
reasonable that Admirals repairer supplied a car with these defects, including an unsecured 
bonnet. In the circumstances I think its fair that it compensates Miss W for the hassle and 
distress this caused her.
Having considered all of this I dont think Admirals repairer provided Miss W with a good 
standard of service. To acknowledge these failings, I agree with our investigator that it 
should pay her a total of £250 compensation. But as discussed I dont think Admiral is 
responsible for paying Miss Ws lease fees. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Miss W a total of £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman