DRN-3792668
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society refused to add Mrs C to an 
account.
What happened
Mr C says he opened a Nationwide account, but it refused to add Mrs C as a joint account 
holder. He says that was unfair and the reason for the refusal makes no sense. Mr C would 
like his wife added to the account and says she has numerous identity documents 
Nationwide could use rather than rely on a Credit Reference Agency which says it has no 
trace of her at their address. He would also like compensation as well as an apology from 
Nationwide.
Nationwide says it is entitled to carry out checks with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
before approving a joint account holder. It says it makes that clear in the application process 
and says it was entitled to reject the application when the CRA had no record of Mrs C at the 
address.
Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator explained we are not Nationwides regulator and not our role to direct it on its 
business decisions as here. The investigator thought the account application terms and 
conditions made clear that Nationwide would carry out checks with the CRAs and had done 
so here.
Mr and Mrs C dont accept that view and in summary question if the application form itself 
forms part of any contract. They say Nationwide had a discretion to consider the application 
in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate their 
frustration that Nationwide couldnt use its discretion in considering the application. And 
consider the evidence Mrs C would have been able to provide about her identity and 
address from other sources. I make clear to Mr and Mrs C that we are not Nationwides 
regulator and its not our role to direct it about the evidence it uses to assess applications 
such as these, however sensible they may appear to Mr and Mrs C.
I have looked carefully at the Nationwide joint account application form and the account 
terms and conditions. Im satisfied those documents make clear that Nationwide will carry 
out checks with the CRAs when considering any application. So, I dont think Nationwide 
made a mistake by checking Mrs Cs credit file and concluding that it would not offer the 
account. I find that decision and action was in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
and made clear in the application form. I appreciate Mr C says it is not said a satisfactory 
credit search history is a mandatory requirement but I think the reference to CRA checks is 
clear and the only purpose is to ensure such a search is satisfactory.
I appreciate what Mr C says about the other accounts he and his wife hold and the lack of 
discretion used by Nationwide. I hope I have made clear to Mr and Mrs C that I understand 
their concerns but cant order Nationwide to change the way it makes its decisions or order it 
to open an account. Those matters are for Nationwide to decide upon when exercising its 
commercial judgement and deciding with whom it enters into a business relationship. Just 
like its up to Mr and Mrs C to decide with whom they enter into a banking relationship.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to decline the joint account application in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions and in line with its process. But I hope it will 
consider using its discretion to consider Mrs Cs circumstances here and consider the 
evidence she is likely to be able to provide about her identity as well as other accounts she 
holds. It follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide to apology or take further action as Mr and 
Mrs C would like. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will have unanswered questions here that this 
service cant assist in answering.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman