DRN-2880365
The complaint
Miss S, through a representative, says UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss S took out a 60-month guarantor loan for £5,000 from UK Credit on 29 July 2014. The 
monthly repayments were £184.67 and the total repayable was £11,044.20. It was given on 
the basis that Miss B had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if she 
failed to.
Miss S says the loan was not affordable and an effective assessment of her circumstances 
must not have been carried out.  She adds that she wasnt given advice about alternative 
solutions and the lenders final response letter was outside the time limits set by the 
regulator.
The investigator said Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. She found that UK Credit did not 
react appropriately to what it saw in the checks it carried out. There were signs that Miss Ss 
financial situation wasnt stable and there was a risk she would struggle to repay the loan, as 
she had with other debts previously.
UK Credit disagreed. In summary, it said it took into account the payments Miss S was 
making to her defaulted debts and it maybe she hadnt lost her job, but instead been unable 
to work at some stage. Miss S only had problems making her repayments 16 months into the 
loan term and this doesnt indicate it was unaffordable at the point of sale. There is no hard 
evidence this was the case and it seems Miss Ss circumstances changed during the life of 
the loan.
UK Credit asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Miss S. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Miss S could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss S, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the
loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and her monthly living costs. It checked her declared income against a 
recent payslip. It checked her credit file to understand her credit history and existing debts. It 
also asked about the purpose of the loan, which was to buy a car and home furnishings, and 
to pay off a loan. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Miss S had sufficient
monthly disposable income for the loan to be affordable and that she would be left with 
£194.26 each month.
I am not wholly persuaded that the checks were proportionate give the five-year term of the 
loan and Miss Ss income level. I think UK Credit should have looked at her actual 
expenditure rather than relying solely on her declarations. Some of her costs seem very low 
 such as £50 a month on food. However, I wont comment further on this as even based on 
the information it gathered I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision. Ill explain 
why.
Miss S had defaulted on two accounts in the previous seven months, one as recently as May 
2014. She explained that this was because shed lost her job, but this conflicts with her 
statement that shed been with her current employer for four years. UK Credit has offered a 
view as to why this might be, but I dont need to make a finding on this point as it doesnt 
change my view that the recency of Miss S defaults ought to have concerned UK Credit  
particularly given that it seems it didnt fully understand what had caused these financial 
problems. It hasnt evidenced it got the assurances I think it needed to conclude Miss Ss 
finances were now stable.It says it took the repayments Miss S was making towards these defaulted debts into 
account and the loan was still affordable. But I am not satisfied this was a fair overall 
conclusion. Miss S was on a relatively low income. UK Credit concluded she would have 
almost £200 of disposable income after taking on this loan. I cant see it planned for any 
unexpected or seasonal costs in its assessment. And it could see from the credit check it 
completed that Miss S was using £824 of her £850 overdraft facility, suggesting she was 
already having problems managing her money and had no surplus income. So I think there 
were signs that Miss S most likely didnt have the disposable income UK Credit had 
calculated. This loan increased Miss Ss outgoings (both through its repayments and by 
introducing new monthly costs related to the car purchase). So I dont think UK Credit can 
reasonably argue there were no indicators the loan might not be sustainably affordable for 
Miss S. 
It argues there is no hard evidence to support this view, and also Miss Ss initial payment 
history contradicts this view. I acknowledge this is a finely balanced case. I have made my 
decision on the basis of the available information and on the balance of probabilities, in other 
words on what I consider most likely. UK Credit doesnt know how Miss S funded her 
repayments so I dont find its point about her payment history negates my finding that at the 
point of sale there were signs that there was a risk the loan might not be affordable. It seems 
most likely she would remain reliant on her overdraft as this was not a debt she was looking 
to settle with this loan, so UK Credit approved this loan knowing she would most likely be 
borrowing (via her overdraft) to repay it.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to lend to Miss S. To be clear this is my conclusion 
based on the combination of these factors, not on any one of them in isolation.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss S says that she wasnt given advice about alternative solutions and the final response 
letter was outside the time limits set by the regulator. UK Credit has said that Miss S did not 
raise the first point with it so asks that she does so to give it chance to respond. I find this to 
be fair. And I can see the final response letter was sent within the regulators eight-week 
time limit on 31 July 2020 (Miss S complained to the lender on 8 June 2020), so I dont find 
that point to be accurate.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss S to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Miss S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account results in there being an outstanding capital balance UK 
Credit should try to agree an affordable payment plan with Miss S.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman