DRN-2951038
The complaint
Mrs C  represented in this complaint by her niece, Ms B  complains that Soteria Insurance 
Limited rejected a claim under her car insurance when her car was stolen.
Mrs C had an RAC insurance policy, underwritten by CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS). A 
change in CIS ownership in December 2020 means Mrs Cs complaint is now against 
Soteria. However, for clarity and consistency with previous correspondence about her 
complaint, Ill refer mainly to CIS in my decision. 
CIS used a third party company to investigate Mrs Cs claim and most of Mrs C and Ms Bs 
correspondence has been with either CIS or the claims investigator. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference to CIS includes its agents, including the claim investigators.
What happened
Mrs C had an RAC car insurance policy, underwritten by CIS. In November 2019, her car 
was stolen, so she made a claim on her insurance.
Mrs C had visited a forest to take a walk. She parked her car in a public car park. At some 
point during her walk, she noticed she didnt have her handbag. She searched for it without 
finding it. When she returned to the car park, she found that her car had been stolen. Mrs C 
reported the theft to the police and to her insurer.
CIS investigated the claim. As part of its investigation it interviewed Mrs C by phone: 
1st call with CIS, 22 November 2019. Mrs C told the investigator she visited a forest 
near where she used to live and parked in a car park she knew. She said she walked 
far enough that she was out of sight of the car park. She sat on a log to eat a 
sandwich (My [hand]bag was on the log next to me and the other bag I put by my 
feet) before getting up to speak to a couple who were walking their dog for about 
ten minutes. When she returned to the log she found her handbag was missing. She 
searched the immediate area but when she couldnt find it thought perhaps she might 
have left it in her car (It puts doubt in your mind). When she returned to the car 
park, her car had gone. She called the police and reported the theft. 
The claims investigator asked Mrs C how far she might have walked away from her 
handbag. Mrs C replied: Quite a bit I suppose.. not very sensible when you think 
back on these things I dont know whether a hundred yards, two hundred yards. 
When the investigator pointed out that this was quite far, Mrs C explained that she 
wasnt good at estimating distance.
2nd call with CIS, 22 November 2019. Mrs C called back about ten minutes later. She 
said that although shed walked away from her bag she was always aware of it and 
believed it was safe. She said she had no idea how or when her handbag was 
taken and was really confused. The claims investigator acknowledged that 100-200 
yards was a large distance and told Mrs C, I dont think it wouldve been quite that 
far. Mrs C agreed when the investigator suggested she might have been a car 
length away from her handbag. During this call, Mrs C said she was quite sure her 
handbag was still there after she said goodbye to the couple: I cant see any other 
way I cant think how else [it could have been stolen]. 
CIS rejected Mrs Cs claim. It said Mrs C hadnt taken all reasonable precautions to reduce 
or remove the risk of damage or loss to your vehicle, and this was a breach of her policy 
terms. It also accused Mrs C of changing her story to ensure cover.
Ms B  on behalf of her aunt  disagrees and believes CIS has treated her aunt unfairly. She 
wants CIS to accept her aunts claim and compensate her aunt for the distress it caused her.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He explained that it 
wasnt clear how or when the handbag was taken, but thought it was more likely than not 
that it was stolen while Mrs C was talking to the couple walking their dog. He explained that 
CIS needed to show that Mrs C had acted recklessly for it to rely on the policy term to reject 
her claim. In our investigators opinion, CIS hadnt shown this, and he didnt think Mrs C had 
acted recklessly. He recommended that CIS settle Mrs Cs claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
CIS disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 21 July 2021. I said:
First, I apologise to all parties for the time its taken for this case to reach me for a decision.
CIS rejected Mrs Cs claim because it said she failed to take reasonable steps to protect her 
belongings. Section 17 of her policy booklet (General policy conditions) says: You and all 
other drivers must ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure the car has been 
protected against loss or damage.
As our investigator explained, our approach in this type of complaint is based on the case of 
Sofi v Prudential Assurance Company Ltd. That case established that a consumer must first 
recognise the risk to their belongings, and then court that risk by taking inadequate 
precautions (or no precautions at all) to mitigate the risk. The test is not what an average or 
reasonable consumer would have thought or done, but what the individual consumer thought 
or did at the time. 
This means that if CIS wants to rely on the policy term above, its not enough for it to show 
that Mrs C was negligent. Rather, it must show that Mrs C recognised the risk to her 
belongings, then show she either didnt care about or consciously ignored the risk. If it can 
show this, it can reasonably say that Mrs C acted recklessly. 
CISs decision to reject Mrs Cs claim can be summarised by three key arguments:
Mrs Cs comments to the claims investigator shows she recognised the risk to her 
belongings.
Mrs C left her handbag unattended in a public place and walked far away from it.
This demonstrates [t]here was an element of recklessness in her behaviour, and she 
failed to take reasonable steps to protect against loss.
Ive thought carefully about these arguments, but Im not persuaded by them.
Having listened to the calls, its clear to me that Mrs C was extremely nervous and uncertain during her calls with CISs investigator. It sounds to me like she was trying to take great care 
to remember as many details as possible. She explained that the situation was quite 
upsetting and Ive no doubt that this was a very stressful experience for her.
Given the circumstances  the stress of the theft and trying to understand how it happened  
I can understand why Mrs C couldnt recall her precise movements and actions immediately 
before discovering her car was stolen. For example, she was unable to estimate how far into 
the forest shed walked, wasnt sure how far away she might have been from where she ate 
her lunch when she spoke to the couple walking their dog, and even questioned whether 
shed even taken her handbag from the car. I dont agree with CIS that Mrs Cs change of 
story between her first and second calls was an attempt to ensure cover. I think its more 
likely she was simply trying to remember events correctly and find an explanation for what 
had happened. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mrs Cs account in her first call  that she left her 
handbag unattended and someone took it while she was talking to the dog-walking couple  
is more likely. Its not clear exactly how far Mrs C walked away from her handbag but even 
CISs investigator acknowledged her estimate of 100 yards was probably wrong. In any 
case, it appears that Mrs C was distracted for anything up to about ten minutes by her 
conversation with this couple.
However, while Mrs C might have been careless by leaving her handbag unattended, this 
doesnt automatically mean she was reckless. As Ive said, if CIS wants to argue that Mrs C 
didnt take reasonable steps to protect her belongings, it must show that she recognised a 
risk and failed to take any action to mitigate it. In this case, I dont think its shown this. 
I dont agree with CIS that Mrs Cs comments to the claims investigator shows she 
recognised the risk at the time of the theft. I think they simply show that in hindsight she 
might have acted differently. Thats entirely understandable. But recognising a risk in 
hindsight isnt the test in cases like this. The judge in Sofi commented: With hindsight the 
decision might not have been the same, but I have to consider the decision [the plaintiffs] 
took in the circumstances as it would have appeared to them at the time. 
Mrs C parked her car in a public car park in a forest. She was enjoying a walk while chatting 
to people also enjoying the forest. I also note Mrs Cs familiarity with her surroundings  it 
was a forest shed lived near and visited often  and that this was a rural environment. I dont 
think it was a situation or environment where Mrs C felt her belongings were at risk. Her car 
was stolen because someone took her handbag while she was distracted and  presumably 
 used the car keys to take her car. I dont think Mrs C recognised this risk.
Given I dont think CIS has shown Mrs C failed to take reasonable car of her belongings, I 
dont think it was fair for CIS to rely on the policy term to reject her claim. Instead, I think CIS 
should have settled the claim. The question now is what it should do to put things right. 
Our investigator recommended CIS settle in line with the policy terms. I dont think thats 
entirely fair here given more than 18 months have passed since the theft. In this case  both 
for the avoidance of any doubt and to avoid any further delay  Im going to set out below 
exactly how I think CIS should settle the claim.
Mrs C bought her car via a hire purchase agreement via a third party finance company in 
September 2018. She financed the full sale price of the car  that is, she didnt pay a deposit 
as part of the finance agreement.
Mrs Cs policy sets out how CIS would settle a claim in these circumstances: If to the insurer's knowledge the car is the subject of a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement, the insurer may, in the event of the car's total loss or destruction, pay the 
hire purchase or leasing company directly for the loss or damage to the vehicle. If 
the insurer's estimate of the market value is less than the amount owed you may 
have to pay the outstanding balance.
Ive checked three trade guides to get a valuation for Mrs Cs car at the time it was stolen. 
The three guides provided similar valuations, based on the make, model, mileage, and 
condition of Mrs Cs car: £11,170; £11,236; £11,427. The average of these is £11,278. CIS 
would be able to deduct Mrs Cs £200 policy excess from this amount, giving a settlement 
amount of £11,078.
At this stage, I think CIS should do three things. 
First, it should settle the outstanding finance with Mrs Cs car finance company. This might 
involve Mrs C requesting a new settlement value from the car finance company. 
Second, CIS should pay Mrs C the difference between £11,078 and the new settlement 
value provided by Mrs Cs car finance company. 
Third, CIS should refund the interest element of Mrs Cs car finance premiums since January 
2020. Mrs C would not have paid this interest if CIS had settled the claim in December 2019. 
CIS should add simple interest at 8% per year to these refunded interest payments from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement.1 
Finally, the above puts Mrs C back in the position she would have been in if CIS had settled 
the claim in December 2019. But I think CIS should also compensate Mrs C for the 
consequences of its failure to settle the claim  that is, compensate her for:
the loss of use of her car; and 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her by its handling of her claim.
In my opinion, CISs response to Mrs Cs claim was unfair. It rejected the claim without 
reviewing the police report and maintained this position when we asked it to look again. As 
Ive explained above, its reasons for rejecting the claim were unfair. The consequences of 
this were particularly acute for Mrs C during the coronavirus pandemic when it would have 
been extremely difficult for her to either rely on help from friends and family or use public 
transport. 
Taking all this into account, I think CIS should pay Mrs C £1,000 to compensate her for both 
the loss of use of her car and the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C  through her niece, Ms B  accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
CIS didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it says:
Its shown Mrs C was clearly reckless in her behaviour, and it acted fairly by relying 
on the policy exclusion.
Any reasonable person would realise the risk of their bag being stolen if left 
1 In effect, the capital element of Mrs Cs premiums since January 2020 are also being refunded to 
her by the refund of the difference between £11,078 and the finance settlement. Thats because the 
car finance settlement is lower today than it would have been in December 2019.unattended in a public place.
Mrs Cs comments during her second call with its investigator  that she was always 
aware of her handbag  show she was concerned about it and aware there was a 
risk.
Mrs C gave three different versions of what happened: the police report and her two 
conversations with the investigator.
The police report (16 November 2019) said Mrs C left her handbag in the car, so 
shed potentially left the car unlocked with the keys in the bag before going for a 
walk. This was clearly reckless behaviour.
Finally, it pointed to an exclusion in her policy for Loss or damage caused by theft or 
attempted theft if the keys or lock transmitter or entry card from the keyless entry 
system are left in or on the car while it is left unattended.
It asked that I consider these points before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS is now effectively running three arguments:
1. If Mrs Cs first call to the investigator is correct, she acted recklessly by leaving her 
handbag unattended. (This was its original reason for rejecting the claim.)
2. If Mrs C second call to the investigator is correct, she acted recklessly by recognising 
the risk to her handbag and ignoring it. 
3. If the police report is correct, Mrs C left her handbag in her car and left her car 
unlocked. This would be excluded by her policy.
My provisional decision covered the first argument. I dont agree that CIS has shown Mrs C 
acted recklessly. CIS hasnt submitted any new evidence that changes my mind about this. 
CIS originally said Mrs C changed her story in her second call to ensure cover. During this 
call, Mrs C said she was always aware of her handbag. I covered this point in my provisional 
decision as well. I dont agree with CIS that Mrs Cs change of story between her first and 
second calls was an attempt to ensure cover. I think its more likely she was simply trying to 
remember events correctly and find an explanation for what had happened. On balance, Im 
more inclined to believe her first version  that she was distracted and her handbag was 
stolen.
On CISs third argument, I considered the police report before making my provisional 
decision. As I said, I think any inconsistencies between Mrs Cs accounts might reasonably 
be explained by the stress of the situation. I think this would have been particularly acute 
immediately after finding her car had been stolen. So Id understand if there were 
inconsistencies between the police report and Mrs Cs later recollection of events. 
However, I dont think the police report is all that different to what Mrs C initially told CIS. In 
her first call with the investigator, she said she couldnt find her handbag after searching the 
area where shed had lunch and thought she might even have left it in her car. Thats 
consistent with the police report.
CIS now suggests Mrs C left her car unlocked with the keys inside. Thats significantly different from the reason it originally gave for rejecting her claim. I dont see any evidence for 
this, and I dont see any reason to think this is more likely than her handbag being stolen 
while she was distracted. So I dont think its fair or reasonable for CIS to rely on the keys 
left in car policy exclusion.
For the reasons above, I see no reason why I should change my provisional decision. While 
Mrs C might have been careless by leaving her handbag unattended, this doesnt 
automatically mean she was reckless. If CIS wants to argue that Mrs C didnt take 
reasonable steps to protect her belongings, it must show that she recognised a risk and 
failed to take any action to mitigate it. In this case, I dont think its shown this.  
CIS didnt comment on my proposed redress. In the circumstances, I see no reason to 
change this. CIS should settle the complaint as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mrs Cs outstanding hire purchase agreement with her car finance company. 
Pay Mrs C the difference between this amount and £11,078.
Refund the interest element of Mrs Cs car finance premiums since January 2020, 
plus interest at 8% per year simple to the date of settlement*. 
Pay Mrs C £1,000 to reflect the loss of use of the car and the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her by rejecting her claim.
*If Soteria considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman