DRN-3008602
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lowell Financial Ltd did not make enough efforts to get in touch with 
him before getting a county court judgement (CCJ).
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card debt which defaulted in 2010, and then was sold to 
Lowell in 2013.
The last payment to the account had been in 2011. Lowell tried texting, calling, and writing to 
Mr O about the account, but they did not receive any response or payments. They carried 
out address traces to make sure they were writing to the most up-to-date address. 
In December 2016, Lowell got a CCJ against Mr O.
Mr O has argued that Lowell did not make enough efforts to contact him before getting a 
CCJ. He also complained that the original creditor shouldnt have held him liable for certain 
transactions, and he complained about the previous debt collector.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O 
asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that we are only allowed to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as collecting a debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a 
county court judgement, its no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  the 
agreement effectively merges into the judgement. Instead, the business can only attempt to 
recover the money by enforcing the judgement  and enforcing judgements is not a 
regulated activity. Further, were not generally able to make decisions about issues that have 
already been dealt with in court.
That means I cant consider whether Lowell were right to get the CCJ or not, and I dont 
have the power to set aside the CCJ or adjust the balance. If Mr O would like to dispute the 
basis or balance of the CCJ, or apply to get it set aside, then he would normally need to 
speak to the County Court Business Centre.
Im also not able to consider the actions of the original creditor or previous debt collector as 
part of this case  Mr O would need to complain to those businesses directly. This complaint 
is against Lowell, so I can only consider what Lowell did here after they bought the debt.
With that said, I can consider Mr Os points about Lowells contact with him. Ive gone 
through the relevant records and thought carefully about whats happened here.
I can see that in the lead-up to applying for the CCJ, Lowell carried out an address trace to 
make sure they were writing to the correct address. The address they wrote to is the one 
that the credit reference agency confirmed was correct. Further, I can see that Mr O was 
registered on the voters roll at that address at the time. So Im satisfied that Lowell 
sufficiently checked they were writing to the correct address.
Lowell sent Mr O a good number of letters over the years, which did say they might have to 
resort to legal action if they didnt hear from him.
In addition to that, Lowell also tried ringing Mr O a number of times on the numbers they held 
for him. They left voice messages. And they tried texting him, too. So they tried multiple 
different methods to try to get in touch with him.
Mr O says Lowell should have emailed him, and I understand his point of view. But Lowell 
were not required to use email specifically. Indeed, they were even required to send certain 
correspondence by post. And they took appropriate measures to make sure they were 
writing to the best address. They also tried other methods of getting in touch with Mr O, like 
calling him on different numbers, leaving messages, and texting him. 
I think Lowell made sufficient efforts to contact Mr O about this account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman