DRN-2403674
The complaint
Ms R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc agreed to a payment holiday on a mortgage she is a 
joint party to without her consent. Shes also unhappy as she says she doesnt regularly 
receive mortgage statements.
What happened
Ms R has an HSBC mortgage with a joint party (who Ill call Mr A). Ms R relationship with Mr 
A has ended, but they still hold the mortgage jointly. There is a dispute on what should 
happen with the property which is Ms R has indicated will likely need to be resolved in court.
Early on in the coronavirus pandemic, Mr A applied for a mortgage payment deferral from 
March until May and again from June to August. This was a scheme put in place by the 
industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This meant that payments 
wouldnt be made to the mortgage for the period of the deferral and wouldnt be recorded on 
a credit file as arrears. But this money would need repaying eventually, usually by being 
added to the mortgage balance. Though other options for repaying the deferred amount are 
available.
The property is held in whats known as a tenants in common basis. This means that Ms R 
and Mr A each own a specific percentage of the property. But the mortgage is over the entire 
property and in joint names. Ms R complained that she didnt agree to the payment deferral 
and this meant that it could affect her share in the property if it is added to the mortgage 
balance. She also said she hadnt been kept updated by HSBC regarding payments to the 
mortgage as she doesnt receive mortgage statements.
HSBC says only Mr A makes payments to the mortgage, so its process didnt require it to 
ask for Ms Rs consent. It also said mortgage statements had been sent to her correctly. It 
didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms R referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into it. He thought 
HSBC was entitled to agree to the payment deferral with only Mr As consent. And he was 
satisfied that HSBC had been sending statements to Ms R and to the correct address. Ms R 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its been 
passed to me to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our investigators opinion, Ms R has said that she should never have been on 
the mortgage and that it should only be secured on the part of the property which Mr A owns. 
This has previously been the subject of an ombudsmans decision where it was decided that 
the mortgage had been set up correctly. Ms R hasnt brought any material new evidence to 
dispute this decision, which means I cant consider this point further here. So in this case, Ill 
be proceeding on the basis that the mortgage is set up correctly in joint names.
When the coronavirus pandemic started, the FCA and lenders had to react quickly to the 
challenging economic hardship that people were experiencing. So it put in place a mortgage 
payment deferral scheme which Ive already detailed above. The scheme required lenders to 
grant payment deferrals when they were requested with minimal checks and with ease. And 
this is what HSBC has done here. I know Ms R says that Mr A hasnt experienced any 
further hardship due to the pandemic. I dont know if that is the case or not, but HSBC wasnt 
required to check this. It was required to take what he said at face value and grant the 
mortgage payment deferral, unless it was clearly not in their best interests.
HSBC did try to contact Ms R when the payment deferral was requested, but when it wasnt 
able to it wrote to her to confirm one had been put in place. This means it didnt obtain her 
specific agreement for the payment deferral. So, Ive thought about whether it was fair not to 
do so. 
Ms R has told us that the payments were solely made by Mr A  so it seems if he didnt 
make them, they wouldnt be made. The mortgage is set up in joint names, which means 
both parties are jointly liable for the full debt. The account was already in arrears so its clear 
Mr A had already been struggling with the payments. Had further payments been missed, 
then the result wouldve been the same, whether a payment deferral was granted or not, in 
that the total amount owed would increase. But this would also mean that Ms Rs credit file 
wouldve been adversely affected further due to the mortgage arrears. The payment deferral 
meant that worsening arrears werent reported on either of their credit files.  Overall, I dont 
think HSBC was wrong to grant the payment deferral with just Mr As consent. 
It seems to me Ms Rs biggest concern is that the increasing debt will erode some of the 
equity in her share of the property. However, as the debt is held in both names, HSBC is 
entitled to ask for repayments for both parties. Ms R has said that Mr A is still working so 
should be making the payments. However, HSBC is unable to force Mr A to make the 
payments. And any agreement or dispute about who should be making the payments is 
ultimately between Ms R and Mr A. 
I have noted that Ms R wishes for us to help with her transferring the property and mortgage 
into her sole name. With regards to transferring the mortgage into her sole name, she will 
need to either discuss this with HSBC or an independent financial advisor. And she will need 
to seek legal advice regarding the transfer of the property into her sole name. Ms R has 
indicated that the dispute between her and Mr A and the ownership of the property is likely to 
go to court. And this would be the proper place for this matter to be resolved. So Im not 
going to comment on that matter further.
Ms R is also concerned about further payment deferrals being granted. The FCA guidance 
allowed up to six months of deferrals to begiven without an impact on the borrowers credit 
file.  Ms R and Mr As mortgage has already had the full six months. This means that, 
subject to any change in guidance from the FCA, HSBC wont grant any further payment 
deferrals under this scheme. If future guidance from the FCA does allow for further payment 
holidays to be arranged, I think HSBC should seek Ms Rs individual consent if Mr A applies 
for one. 
Given that Mr A has now taken all the payment holidays currently available, this does mean 
that if he continues not to make further payments, then the mortgage arrears will increase 
and now it will be reported on both Ms R and Mr As credit file. Its also possible that further 
action may be taken by HSBC to recover these arrears. Ms R has told us that Mr A has no 
intention of resuming payments. This is something Ms R will need to discuss with HSBC.Lastly, Ive seen copies of the statements HSBC has sent to Ms R. They are correctly 
addressed and appear to have been sent each year. So I agree with our investigator that it 
correctly kept her updated of the position of the mortgage. And I can see it also wrote to her 
separately to Mr A to confirm the payment deferrals had been granted.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman