DRN-4082554
The complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of M, a limited company, that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) 
closed its business bank accounts and that it then delayed sending out the account closure 
cheques.
What happened
M held a current and savings account with Barclays. 
On 9 March 2022 Barclays said it contacted Mr J, as a director of M, by online and mobile 
banking to request information about the company. This was part of its ongoing Know Your 
Customer (KYC) checks. 
Barclays didnt hear from Mr J and so on 11 November 2022 it closed Ms accounts, sending 
him a cheque for the account balance.
Mr J then realised what had happened and contacted Barclays to complain that it had closed 
Ms accounts without his knowledge. He said the only contact hed had from Barclays was 
two text messages on 22 March and 1 April 2022 telling him to log-in to Ms online banking 
and add information to the account. Mr J also complained that the account closure cheques 
didnt arrive until 3 December 2022.
Barclays looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had sent letters to 
Mr J starting 9 March 2022 advising that information was needed or the account might be 
closed. 
Mr J remained unhappy and brought Ms complaint to our Service. He said he didnt receive 
any of the letters Barclays sent. He told us that hed had to take time off work because of this 
error and so had lost out financially. He also advised the situation had placed him and his 
family under a lot of stress. In relation to the delayed cheque, Mr J explained his business 
had no access to funds following the closure and hed had to borrow money
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt Barclays had 
contacted Mr J at the address registered with Companies House and that it wasnt 
responsible for the fact Mr J didnt receive the letters. They agreed the cheques could have 
been issued a bit sooner but said they hadnt seen anything to show this caused Mr J 
financial loss. 
Mr J disagreed with their view noting that Ms registered address was with a professional 
firm M employed. He said the firm always forwarded post to him and he provided a letter 
from the firm confirming it had received only one letter from Barclays on 17 May 2022 which 
it had emailed to Mr J.
So, this complaint was passed to me to consider.
I asked Mr J why he didnt act on the letter dated 17 May 2022 which was sent to him via 
email from the professional firm. In response, Mr J said he never received this letter. He said 
he queried this with the professional firm and said it was unable to provide any evidence that 
it had emailed him this letter. Mr J speculated that the professional firm may have seen the 
letter as part of his tax return and that Barclays may have also sent the letter to his home 
address. 
After considering the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the 
investigator but for slightly different reasons. So, I shared my provisional findings with Mr J 
and Barclays so they both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further 
evidence. In brief, my provisional findings said I was satisfied Barclays had sent some 
correspondence to notify Mr J that Ms accounts would be closed if he didnt provide further 
information. I also felt that the evidence indicated Barclays issued Ms cheques on time.
Barclays had nothing further to add in response to my provisional findings. Mr J said he 
didnt feel procedures were followed to the letter by Barclays. He emphasised he was very 
stressed by the closures and felt Barclays ought to have phoned.
I am now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Barclays KYC reviews form part of this and are aimed at 
ensuring Barclays has the information it is required to hold about its customers.  So, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to request additional information from M. 
The terms and conditions of Ms account also state we can close an account (and stop 
providing any services and end this agreement) by giving you at least two months notice. 
So, what I therefore need to consider is whether Barclays made sufficient efforts to obtain 
this information from Mr J before closing Ms accounts and whether it gave sufficient notice.
According to Barclays, it attempted to contact Mr J as follows:
9 March 2022 via online banking/mobile banking (not via letter as originally indicated 
to Mr J). It said a banner would have been added to the online banking. 
26 April 2022 a reminder letter was sent.
17 May 2022 a reminder letter was sent.
21 June 2022 a letter notifying M the accounts would be closed in 60 days was sent 
Emails and text messages would also have been sent.
Mr J says he didnt receive these communications, aside from two text messages in March 
and April 2022.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances.  
Barclays isnt able to provide an audit trail for the banners, emails or text messages due to 
the time thats passed. It also isnt able to provide a copy of the letters it sent Mr J as these 
are automatically generated and not retained. However, its provided letter templates and a 
system audit which indicates that letters were sent on the dates above.I can be certain Mr J received the text messages as hes told us he did. 
I have had conflicting evidence about the letters Mr J was sent. We have a signed letter from 
the professional firm that Mr J employs saying that Mr J was sent the letter dated 17 May 
2022 by it. However, Mr J has since told us this was some sort of error on the professional 
firms part and that this wasnt emailed to him. Ultimately, Im satisfied that a letter dated 17 
May 2022 was sent to Mr J by Barclays and was seen by a professional firm that represents 
him. The corresponding letter template indicates Mr J was told Barclays had already written 
to him asking for additional information, that it had already given him an additional 15 days to 
do this because he hadnt replied, and that it was now giving him a further 15 days. 
The letter said that Barclays may close the account if the information was not provided. 
So at minimum, Barclays sent Mr J communications on at least three occasions, via two 
different contact methods requesting information. Im also satisfied Barclays warned Mr J in 
the letter of the possible consequences of account closure if he didnt reply. I appreciate Mr J 
feels Barclays ought to have phoned him, but there was no requirement on Barclays to use 
that specific method of communication. Im satisfied that Barclays tried to contact M in two 
different ways and I think this was fair in the circumstances. Given the texts and letter were 
sent over two months before Barclays closed the accounts, Im also satisfied it gave 
sufficient notice.
Ive thought about the fact that Barclays said it didnt write to Mr J at his designated 
correspondence address, but instead wrote to Ms registered address. I know Mr J has 
speculated that Barclays may have written to his home address but the evidence I have 
indicates this wasnt the case. I acknowledge that Mr J had told Barclays that Ms registered 
address was not his preferred correspondence address, but on balance, I still consider it 
reasonable for Barclays to have assumed that a limited company like M would receive letters 
sent to its registered address. In any event, in the particular circumstances of this complaint I 
dont think it would have made a difference if Barclays had written to Ms correspondence 
address  Ill explain why. 
I think Mr J had opportunities to provide this information before the accounts were closed 
regardless of where Barclays wrote to. 
For example, Mr J says he received but didnt act on the text messages Barclays sent. 
And whilst Mr J says he thought they were a hoax, particularly given hed received the 
second on April Fools Day, theres no evidence he made any enquiries or sought to check 
this. Whilst I think its reasonable for a consumer to be suspicious of unexpected contact by 
a financial service provider given the risk of fraud, that doesnt mean they have no 
responsibility to check if this is legitimate correspondence from their bank. 
On balance, I think it was also likely Mr J was sent the letter of 17 May 2022 and he didnt 
take any action following this either. The evidence I have from the professional firm suggests 
this was emailed to Mr J. Whilst Mr J has since said this was incorrect, I am not persuaded 
by this as the independence of the evidence from this professional firm carries weight.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that if Barclays had written to the correspondence 
address this would have changed anything. I also dont think I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for the fact Mr J failed to respond to contact attempts that we know he received.
So overall, Im going to uphold this part of Ms complaint. 
In relation to the delays to Ms cheques, the accounts were closed on 11 November 2022 
and Mr J said he didnt receive the money until 3 December 2022. So, I can understand why 
he was concerned about the time taken. Barclays system notes show the cheques were issued on 24 November 2022. Barclays told 
us its service level agreement is to issue cheques within ten working days and it noted that 
the cheques were sent to Mr J within this timeframe. I can also see from Barclays notes that 
Mr J rang before this and asked for the cheques to be issued urgently. Barclays told us this 
was the reason it apologised to Mr J when he raised concerns about the time taken to 
receive his cheque. But whilst I recognise it would have been preferable for Mr J if Barclays 
had issued these cheques sooner, given that this was done within its required timescales I 
dont think it did anything wrong. I appreciate it then took a further nine days for Mr J to 
receive these cheques in the post but I have no evidence to suggest this is a delay Barclays 
was responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman