DRN-3689059
The complaint
Mr K complained about Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltds actions in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K claimed against his insurer after his motorcycle was stolen from his home then 
recovered. His insurer declined his claim. They said hed breached their policy condition 
requiring him to keep it in a locked and secure garage overnight. 
Carole Nash are Mr Ks insurance broker. He said hed told Carole Nash that he kept his 
motorcycle in a carport, and theyd said that was enough. So he felt it was their fault that his 
insurer wouldnt pay out. He felt theyd made a mistake. Carole Nash said hed told them his 
motorcycles were kept in a garage. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
was no persuasive evidence that Carole Nash had acted incorrectly or treated him unfairly. 
Mr K didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
Mr K has a separate complaint against his insurer regarding their declining his claim, and so 
I wont comment about that here. Im only looking at whether Carole Nash, his insurance 
broker, did anything wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks motorcycle was stolen in about August 2021. He already had one motorcycle on the 
policy when on 9 March 2019 he called Carole Nash for a quote for adding another to that 
policy. 
Carole Nashs agent asked where the motorcycle would be kept overnight. 
Mr K said carport. 
The agent mis-heard this as car park but Mr K indicated that wasnt right and so the agent 
asked, where it will be kept overnight , garage? 
Mr K said, In my yard yes, in garage. 
The agent asked about the structure of garage? 
Mr K replied solid, brick. 
In a later March call nothing was said about this issue and Mr K did add his motorcycle to the 
policy. In  June 2019 Mr K called Carole Nash to change the mileage on his policy. 
The agent asked, Both are stored in a garage at your home postcode? Mr K agreed and 
confirmed that there was nothing he wanted to change about the information hed given. 
The agent advised him that his insurer had accepted his insurance on condition his 
motorcycles were kept in a locked and secure garage and that failure to adhere to that 
condition would invalidate any theft or attempted theft claim. Mr K accepted that. 
When in July 2020 Mr K renewed his insurance Carole Nashs agent checked with him if 
they were kept inside of a garage overnight, and Mr K agreed.
Mr K said he discussed the matter with Carole Nash and told them it was a carport in a 
locked yard. He thinks this may have been when he was changing address, and his previous 
address did have a garage. But Mr K has been at the same address since at least 2019, 
when the first of the above conversations happened. So I dont think any conversation before 
then matter. Im satisfied that since at least 2019 Carole Nash made it clear to Mr K that the 
insurance was conditional on his motorcycles being garaged, and in March 2019 he said that 
they were. Had Mr K been in doubt about that he had ample opportunity since then to 
discuss it with Carole Nash or clarify it, but he didnt. Over that period hed also received the 
policy papers which clearly stated the conditions about garaging and that failure to do so 
risked a claim being declined but he hadnt raised any questions about that.
I do think it unfortunate that Mr Ks motorcycle was stolen, and that his insurer declined his 
claim. Mr K thought that Carole Nash had made a mistake which affected his insurers 
decision to decline his claim. But given all of the above, I dont think that Carole Nash made 
any mistake regarding what Mr K said. And as Carole Nash didnt do anything wrong, I dont 
require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
