DRN-4251873
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his car insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. And 
when Admiral looked to settle the claim Mr H wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, 
he complained to Admiral about this.
Admiral looked to value Mr Hs car by looking at one of the trade valuation guides in order to 
gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy it looked again at the valuation. 
However, Admiral was happy that its valuation of Mr Hs car of £49,780 was fair but Mr H felt 
it was worth a lot more, so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. Having looked at the 
various motor trade guides available for Mr Hs car she thought Admiral had undervalued Mr 
Hs car and had offered below market value, so she asked it to increase its valuation to 
£57,031. She managed to get three valuations for Mr Hs car, as opposed to the one Admiral 
found, but discarded the lower of the three guides as it was out of line with the other two and 
suggested Admiral should pay the average of these two guides. 
Admiral partly accepted the position outlined and agreed it should increase the valuation but 
thought that the investigator should have used an average of all three guides which lowered 
the valuation suggested. While Mr H maintained that he couldnt buy a similar car to his even 
with the increased valuation, so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint in line with the investigators position and I feel 
that Admiral should pay Mr H £57,031 plus 8% simple interest for the time hes been without 
the money owed. Ill explain why. 
I can understand Mr Hs position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than Admiral have 
offered him. And he feels that the way his car has been valued has left him out of pocket. 
But this Service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Hs. When looking at 
the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have 
adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the valuation guides as these give an 
up to date guide of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the 
incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a 
business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Admiral only relied on one valuation guide in reaching its original valuation figure. But when 
our investigator looked into things for Mr H she was able to find three trade valuation guides 
and as two guides were consistent she suggested an average of them (£57,031) was a fair 
way to approach this case. I know Admiral has suggested that the third guide of £50,270 
should also be factored in. But I agree with our investigator that this feels like an outlier and 
isnt consistent with the other two, so it seems fairer to go with an average of the other two 
valuation guides (£57,031). I understand Admiral has said that if another one of the guides 
was available then it may have supported the third lower valuation guide. But I think it is 
fairer to go on what the guides are showing as the fairest way to consider the valuation of Mr 
Hs car as opposed to guessing what the fourth guide may have come in at. And Admiral had 
the opportunity to consider all the guides in the first instance but chose not to.
I know Mr H doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth a lot more than the 
valuation our investigator suggested. And while I understand his position, and the fact that 
the second-hand market is buoyant at the minute and he has suggested that some 
dealerships for his car would say it was worth more, but Im satisfied this increased valuation 
seems fair. Mr H has suggested that the dealerships he has mentioned would value his car 
at a higher rate, but he hasnt provided any real evidence of this. And so, without anything to 
the contrary I cant say the trade valuation guides arent reasonably accurate for the 
particular make and model of his car.  
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Hs 
car. Im just looking to see if Admiral has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of 
his car and I think, given the trade valuation guide prices Ive seen, that its initial valuation 
was low and the increase to £57,031 feels fair. 
Mr H has made the point that second-hand car valuations, for his particular make and model 
of car with a low mileage, are high and hes struggled to find a car similar to his for the 
money offered. And, given the very low mileage of Mr Hs car, Im sure it isnt easy to find a 
similar car with similar mileage to his. But that doesnt mean this valuation, that is consistent 
with two of the three valuation guides our investigator has gained, is unfair. Ultimately, the 
valuation has increased Admirals offer by around £7,000 and feels fair in the circumstances 
given the available evidence. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied Admiral should increase its market value offer in line with the 
trade valuation guides and that it is fair to discard the lower valuation as it is significantly out 
of line with the other two guides. So, Admiral should pay Mr H £57,031 for his car plus 8% 
simple interest for the time hes been without the money owed. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr H £57,031 as a market value for his car plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman