DRN-2920502
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC used the funds in his late wifes current account 
to pay off her outstanding credit card balance. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr Cs wife passed away. Mr C notified Barclays and asked it to freeze her 
current account until he had been granted letters of administration. Barclays asked Mr C to 
sign an account closure form which Mr C refused to do on the grounds that he hadnt yet 
been appointed to administer the estate. Barclays debited the funds in Mr Cs late wifes 
current account and used these to repay part of the outstanding credit card balance. Mr C 
was subsequently contacted by a probate agent instructed by Barclays who chased him for 
payment of the outstanding credit card debt. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In my provisional decision, I 
concluded that Barclays had wrongly assumed Mr C to be the executor of his late wifes 
estate, whereas in fact Mr Cs late wife had passed away without leaving a will so Mr C had 
to apply for letters of administration before he could deal with the estate. I concluded that Mr 
C was unable to sign the account closure form or arrange payment of debts from the estate 
until he had been appointed as administrator, and that Mr C had been chased to settle the 
credit card debt prematurely. I said that Barclays service had fallen short of what Mr C could 
expect and asked Barclays to pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Both Mr C and Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said they agreed with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both Mr C and Barclays have responded and said that they agree with my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those which I reached 
before.   
Putting things right
Barclays must pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C 
by the level of service he received.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay 
compensation of £200 to Mr C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman