DRN-2003408
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc provided incorrect information about the operation 
of a trustee account. As a consequence, funds in the account were wrongly released to one 
of the trustees and aren't available to him as the beneficiary. Clydesdale Bank operates in 
this case under its trading name of Virgin Money. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr S's parents opened an account for his benefit. I'll call them Mr G and Ms C; they
were to hold the account as trustees for Mr S.
The application included a section headed "Declaration" in which the account holders stated 
they wished to open an account, acknowledged receipt of the account terms and accepted 
they would apply to the account. That section also included boxes in which the account 
holders could indicate which signing instructions they required - either to sign or both to sign. 
Both boxes were left blank.
A further document included the following statement:
"I/We wish to open the account detailed above and authorise you to debit to the account all 
withdrawals and payments signed or otherwise authorised by me/any one of us or the 
survivor(s) (if other signing instructions required, tick one box [ ] us [ ] any one of us) and all 
transactions effected by the use of such cards on the account as may be issued by you 
initially on such authority."
Mr G and Ms C signed both documents.
Some time later, Mr G and Ms C separated. As Mr S was approaching his 18th birthday, Mr 
G wanted to arrange for him to have access to the account - that is, so the account would no 
longer be operated by trustees. He says that he and his son went to the branch to discuss 
what was needed. He says that he explained to the bank the situation between him and Ms 
C. The person he dealt with discussed the account with a colleague and Mr G was told that 
he and Ms C would need to sign forms to release the money to a new account in their son's 
own name.
Shortly after his son's 18th birthday, Mr G went back to the branch, intending to sign the
necessary paperwork. He was told that Ms C had however already withdrawn all the money
from the account - nearly £4,000 - about a week earlier.
Mr G complained to Virgin Money. He said that he shouldn't have been told that the consent
of both trustees was needed to close the account. Had he been properly advised - that only
one trustee could close the account - he would have taken steps to secure the funds
himself.
Virgin Money reviewed the account mandate and concluded that it required the signature of
only one trustee. It accepted it hadn't provided accurate information, however, and paid MrG £50 compensation in respect of that error. Mr G didn't think that was enough to resolve the 
complaint, however, and referred the case to this service on behalf of his son.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He broadly agreed with the bank's
conclusions, although he thought a larger payment was merited. He recommended
compensation of £150. Mr S didn't accept the investigator's recommendations and asked
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision indicating that I thought Virgin Money should pay 
Mr S the money that it had released to Ms C, together with interest and a further £150 in 
recognition of the distress Mr C had suffered and the inconvenience to which he'd been put. 
I was satisfied that Virgin Money had acted in line with the account mandate when it 
released the finds to Ms C. Whilst the mandate could have been clearer, I concluded that its 
effect was that the account could be operated by either of the trustees acting alone. 
However, I also found that, before the withdrawal, Mr G had discussed the situation with the 
bank and had been told that both he and Ms C would need to give authority to have the 
funds in the account released. That wasn't correct, however. I found that, had Mr G and Mr 
C been given the correct information about how the account operated, Mr G would have 
taken steps to secure the money in it and Ms C wouldn't have been able to withdraw it. I 
considered too that Virgin Money knew that the trustees had separated and should therefore 
have treated the account as if it required the authority of both of them to make withdrawals.
In the circumstances I concluded that it was fair that the bank pay Mr S the money that had 
been in the account. Both Virgin Money and Mr S accepted my provisional conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties to this dispute have accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision, 
I don't need to discuss those findings in any more detail. I've summarised the reasons for 
those findings above.
I shall however make a formal award, so that Mr S can enforce it, should he need to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve this complaint, Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay 
Mr S:
£3,931.95;
interest on that sum at a rate of 8% simple a year from 13 June 2019 until the date of 
payment; and 
£150 in recognition of the distress this has caused and the inconvenience to which 
Mr S has been put. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman