DRN-3627018
The complaint
X is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) declined their claim for breast reduction 
surgery which they say they are entitled to by law. 
What happened
X has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. 
In 2021, they contacted BUPA as they wanted to make a claim for breast reduction surgery. 
BUPA declined the claim as it said it didnt cover breast reduction surg ery, even if it was for 
medical reasons. 
X complained as they said they were entitled to the treatment and BUPA were unfairly 
declining the claim. 
BUPA maintained its position and so X referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigato r looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong as 
it had acted in line with its policy terms and conditions. 
X disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
They are entitled to the treatment by law and have referred to the Womens Health 
and Cancer Right Act 1998.
Their procedure wasnt cosmetic.
They found BUPAs communication insulting.
BUPA incorrectly rejected the claim as if it was based on psychological reasons and  
said they had surgery to reduce healthy tissue.
BUPA ignored their GPs recommendation that breast reduction was required as a 
result of pain.
Private health insurance companies have to pay for reductions by law.
BUPA blocked X from accessing their online account. So they created a new  
account with a different email address. But all their data was erased by BUPA. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I should start by confirming my decision is limited to the complaint about BUPAs decline of 
Xs breast reduction surgery claim. 
The releva nt rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handl e claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
X's policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis which means it doesnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. So BUPA will check whether treatment is eligible by asking for a pre-treatment 
form to be filled in by a GP. This is set out fully in the policy and was explained to X. 
Xs policy includes the following exclusion:
Excluded Treatment
Treatment to change your appearance, whether or not it is needed for medical or 
psychological reasons, such as;
breast enlargement, reduction or other treatment to change the shape or
appearance of breasts
X spoke to BUPA in July 2021 and it confirmed breast reduction surgeries werent covered. 
And having reviewed the policy terms as set out above, I dont think BUPA unfairly or 
incorrectly explained that the treatment wasnt covered under the policy. Even if Xs GP 
recommended a reduction, the policy doesnt cover it, with an exception for cancer.
X has referred to the Womens Health and Cancer Right Act 1998. From my understanding, 
this relates to group health plans in the USA. And relates to cover for reconstructive surgery 
after a mastectomy. So it isnt relevant to their claim.
Ive listened to the call X had with BUPA and the adviser went into a detailed explanation 
about the exclusion. X found this insulting, but I dont think there was any malice intended, 
based on the conversation. I think the adviser was trying to be helpful and explained that 
BUPA might be able to help to investigate the cause of Xs symptoms but not the breast 
reduction surgery. The written correspondence also referred to the exclusion in full  but 
that doesnt necessarily mean the examples used applied to X.  
X also says they were unable to access their  online account for a year. And I can see 
BUPA werent able to resolve the issue but there is no evidence that it intentionally blocked 
Xs email address or that it had any reason to do so. It had already explained the surgery X 
was claiming for wasnt covered. 
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for X when they couldnt access their account 
and Ive seen BUPA has apologised for that. I think thats reasonable on the basis that it 
didnt resolve the issue and X was able to use another email address to access their 
account in another way. There is no evidence that BUPA deleted any data on Xs account. 
And the evidence available shows that BUPA set their exclusion out clearly to X. 
Overall, I dont think BUPA has treated X unfairly and I dont think it has incorrectly declined 
their claim. I have no doubt that X will be disappointed with my findings but I would like to reassure them that I have considered everything they have said thoroughly, 
even if I havent explicitly referred to it in my decision. That is because I have instead 
focused on what I consider to be key to my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman