DRN-1147629
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage in November 1999. 
What happened
In 1999 Lloyds sold PPI to Mr and Mrs K for a mortgage in a meeting. The PPI included 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and cost £34.65 a month. For a successful 
claim it wouldve paid the monthly mortgage cost for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, but Mr and Mrs K disagreed with 
this. So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Lloyds had to make clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr and Mrs K agreed to take 
it. Mr and Mrs K havent given us much detail about this. And Lloyds doesnt have copies of 
any of the documents from the time. 
I think its understandable that neither party has any detailed information about how the PPI 
was sold because the sale was so many years ago  more than 20 years ago. But because 
of this I cant fairly say that its more likely than not that Lloyds did do things to make Mr and 
Mrs K think the PPI wasnt optional. Or that Mr and Mrs K didnt agree to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI. So, they had to take adequate steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs K. I dont know what was said to Mr and Mrs K about PPI or whether 
Lloyds did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because 
even if Lloyds didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K for 
the following reasons. 
Although its unknown whether the policy cover was equally split between Mr K and Mrs K, 
they both met the PPIs requirements, so were eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs costs 
and main benefits above.
Mr and Mrs K were both working at the time, and both of them had some occupational sick 
pay and they say they had some savings. But this doesnt automatically mean that the policy 
was unsuitable. This is because were either of them unable to work, the PPI was intended to 
remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be 
a difficult time. And the policy wouldve left any savings free to maintain their lifestyle and to 
cope with any additional or unexpected costs that might come with illness or injury.Furthermore, the mortgage was over 25 years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim. So it was prudent for Mr and 
Mrs K to take PPI as the mortgage was secured upon their home and they were taking on a 
significant amount of debt.
Nothing Mr and Mrs K told us suggested they needed to keep their costs down. And there 
wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr and Mrs K to claim. For 
example, Mr and Mrs K told us they were in work and in good health when the PPI was sold. 
So, they wouldnt have been affected by things in it about unusual work or known health 
issues. So, taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. They 
havent told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mr and Mrs K about this. So, I 
cant say its likely Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs K everything they needed to know before 
deciding to take PPI. 
But did Mr and Mrs K lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. So given their circumstances at the time I 
think Mr and Mrs K wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments 
on their home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So 
I dont think Mr and Mrs K lost out. Because I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd 
been given enough proper information about it. And as this was a regular premium policy, Mr 
and Mrs K couldve cancelled it whenever they wanted, without penalty, if they decided they 
no longer needed it or could no longer afford it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman