DRN-2298196
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy as Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined his claim for unemployment.
 What happened
Mr J bought a lifestyle protection insurance policy on 21 September 2017. This policy 
included unemployment benefit and was underwritten by Covea. 
In September 2019 Mr J was made redundant and made a claim. Covea initially accepted 
the claim but later declined and stopped payments on the basis that Mr J was aware of 
possible redundancy when he bought the policy.
Mr J complained to Covea and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Covea had acted unfairly.
Mr J disagreed and has made the following comments, in summary:
His employer has confirmed that redundancies werent discussed in September 2017
The office closure was discussed but Mr J didnt think he would be made redundant 
as there was a possibility of moving to another office and he had also recently been 
promoted
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  
The policy terms and conditions set out the exclusions:
We will not pay any unemployment benefitsif at the commencement date you knew you 
were to become unemployed, or it is reasonable for us to conclude that you knew that it was 
likely to happen.
Mr J says he wasnt told about potential redundancies  he was told about the office closure, 
which was announced on 21 September 2017 to staff and also in an online article. Mr J says 
he was told that the company was looking for another office and that he wasnt under threat 
of redundancy  which was first mentioned in November 2017. 
But Mr J bought the policy on the same day as the announcement on 21 September 2017. 
This timing persuades me that Mr J was aware that redundancies were possible. I think its 
reasonable for Covea to conclude that Mr J thought redundancies were likely as he bought 
the policy to protect himself in the event of unemployment. The policy sets out a specific 
exclusion in these circumstances, as set out above. 
Mr J is also unhappy that Covea initially accepted the claim and later stopped payments  he 
doesnt think it should be able to do this. But insurers are entitled to review a claim and 
consider any further evidence throughout the life of a claim. So I dont think Covea has done 
anything wrong here.
Mr J has raised other issues including premium increases and an incorrect address but I can 
only look into the complaint about the declined claim. Mr J would need to complain to Covea 
with any other issues first and allow it an opportunity to respond before he can refer the 
matter to our service for consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman