DRN-3195760
The complaint
Miss W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around January 2015, a representative of a company Ill call P contacted Miss W to 
talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After a visit 
from a representative of P, Miss W decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 
15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In May 2019 the CMC made a claim on Miss Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made several representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Miss W 
to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £6,490.00 to mislead Miss W as 
when the interest was added the total cost was £12,742.20
Miss W was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £849.48 but was not made 
aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of 
£351.31
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments
the system would not cost Miss W a penny
The CMC said that Ps representative was at Miss Ws home for one hour and used 
pressurised sales tactics.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Miss W to claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss W 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive looked at these in detail and 
considered whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss Ws recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods. 
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £6,490.00. It says that 
this was done to mislead Miss W as the figure didnt include any interest on the loan. So, the 
CMC considers that it hid the true cost of the system which was £12,742.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Miss W makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£6,490.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which shows the total cash price of the 
system as £6,490.00 and the total amount of credit as £6,490.00. The agreement then goes 
on to show that the total amount payable as £12,742.20.The quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as set 
out in the table below. So, Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement, made it 
clear that although the cost of the system was £6,490.00, it would cost Miss W more than 
this, as shed decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Miss W has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
whether this supports what Miss W has said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss W could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think the first of these tables is clear that Miss W could expect to receive a total FIT income 
in year one of £410.70.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss W could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £193.30.  Taking into account the optional extra 
which Miss W chose, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £671.59. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
There is a section headed Repayments/System Performance and Returns with three tables 
set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months this is the length of the loan that Miss W entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £70.79. For each year of the 15-
year loan, it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £70.79 to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. I 
accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments. But it does clearly show that the overall return she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not immediately be enough to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative wouldve taken Miss W 
through the quote. And Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss W that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments. However, I do accept that P told Miss W the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Miss W 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I 
were satisfied that this was what induced Miss W to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,525 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss W FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,743.06 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these were fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Miss W hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss W couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss W entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statements of fact that induced Miss W to enter into 
the contract for the system. And I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman