DRN-1965134
The complaint
Miss W complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have refused to credit her 
account with money she says she deposited.
What happened
On 10 May 2018, Miss W visited a branch of Halifax. Shed been advised to close her 
existing account and open a new one, to try and prevent misuse of her accounts.
Miss W has given a detailed account of what happened during the visit, which Ive 
summarised below:
She had an appointment with an advisor that Ill call Ms I
The appointment took place in a cubicle
Miss W had £2,200 to deposit. This amount was counted by Miss I in front of Miss W
The amount was comprised of surplus cash that had been withdrawn from another of 
Miss Ws accounts
Miss W was informed that Miss Is computer wasnt working that day so the account 
opening couldnt be completed while she was present
Miss I advised that the account opening would be completed in her absence and 
paperwork, including a receipt, would be sent within seven days
Miss I then assisted Mr W in withdrawing £30 from a cash machine inside the branch.
According to Miss W, no paperwork was received.
In December 2019 Miss W says she checked her statement and discovered that only £200 
had been credited to her account on that day, which was now more than eighteen months 
earlier.
Miss W reported the matter in branch but was told they couldnt help. She was unhappy with 
the way that she was treated during the visit.
 
In their response to the complaint, Halifax said theyd conducted an investigation and there 
was no evidence of a discrepancy of £2,000 in the day in question. CCTV, they said, was 
unavailable due to the time that had passed. They also noted that Miss W had raised a 
dispute a long time after the event and there had been several opportunities for her to review 
the account activity since.
Halifax did, however, offer £50 compensation to recognise that branch staff might have done 
more to help when she visited to report the transactions.
Unhappy with their response, Miss W referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He acknowledged that information was 
limited but concluded there wasnt enough evidence to support Miss Ws claim shed 
attempted to deposit £2,200.
Miss W disagreed, stressing the importance of obtaining and reviewing CCTV evidence. She 
didnt think that the passage of time should be a barrier to obtaining this evidence or 
reaching a fair outcome. She believes that the missing money was taken by Ms I instead of 
being deposited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is limited, as it is here, Ive reached a finding on the balance of probability 
and Im not upholding the complaint.
Its clear Miss W feels strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss 
W, but I dont think there is enough evidence to support her allegation against Halifax.
Miss Ws delay in reporting the incident to Halifax has inevitably made it much more difficult 
to investigate. Theres no reason for me to think Halifaxs claim that CCTV is no longer 
available isnt true. In fact, Id be surprised if recordings had been retained after so many 
months. A 30-day retention for period for CCTV is, in my experience, typical for banks and 
many other organisations. Often its even less or it might even be that footage cant be 
released at all, even if a request to view it is made quickly.
  
Halifax also havent been able to provide branch records from that day to show whether 
there was any discrepancy between the cash received and the cash credited to accounts. 
But, such records would only reveal mistakes or errors by branch staff. If, as Miss W alleges, 
the money was simply taken by Ms I, it wouldnt appear on the branchs records.
Since May 2018, Halifax say several staff working in the branch at the time have retired or 
moved on, including Ms I. The pandemic appears to have prevented Halifax from contacting 
Ms I about the allegations. But, in any case, anything other than a denial of such serious 
allegations seems very unlikely. And I note there dont appear to have been any similar 
claims against Ms I.
 
Had the incident reported been reported sooner, then its much more likely a definitive 
outcome could have been reached. And, Im afraid it would not be fair for the inevitable lack 
of evidence to count against Halifax.
Neither do I find Miss Ws testimony sufficiently compelling to uphold this complaint. Miss W 
has provided a good deal of detail about what happened on that day but its not possible to 
confirm any of the details and none of it confirms she did hand Ms I £2,200.
 
I also understand that Miss W was going through a difficult period in her life. This might 
explain why, according to her testimony, she didnt report not having received paperwork in 
relation to her new account or why she didnt ask for even a hand-written receipt of the 
deposit. But there isnt a reasonable explanation as to why the balance enquiries carried out 
on 24 May 2018 and 23 November 2018 wouldnt have alerted her to the missing funds. I 
dont think this can reasonably be explained by the difficulties Miss W was having at the 
time.
 
A balance enquiry is an optional feature when withdrawing cash and I can see no other 
reason for choosing it, on two separate occasions, other than to gain knowledge of the 
balance of the account. A discrepancy of £2,000 on an account with an otherwise low 
balance would also have been very clear.
 This leads me to believe that Miss W was aware of the balance at a much earlier point and 
either chose not to report it or, perhaps more likely, only came to believe that £2,000 was 
missing at a later date.
I do have some concerns over what Miss W has said about how she came by the £2,200 
she says she had as well. Shes told us it was leftover cash that had accumulated over time 
from previous withdrawals from another account. But it seems strange that Miss W would 
build up such a surplus of cash and yet keep withdrawing more funds from her other 
account.
Ive also considered her statements from her other bank account and the activity doesnt 
lend itself in support of what Miss W has told us about withdrawals there. In order to build up 
£2,200 in cash it would have meant that almost all cash withdrawn from February 2018 up 
until 10 May 2018 (the opening of the new account) from Miss Ws other account would have 
had to be saved and not spent. Thats despite almost no other expenditure for day to day 
living costs.
It would also mean over 90% of Miss Ws income for the same period would have gone 
toward the cash she was depositing.
 
I accept Miss W could potentially have built up the reserves over a longer period of time. But 
that doesnt appear to be particularly likely given the activity on the account, the amount of 
money deposited each month and the regular withdrawals of cash. And it seems odd such 
sums would be held in cash rather than secure in an account.
I cant then be satisfied Miss W did in fact hand over £2,200 as she says she did and I wont 
be telling Halifax to pay her the amount she says is missing.
While I cant know for certain what took place in the branch when Miss W went to report the 
incident, I think the £50 offered for failing to raise a complaint on Miss Ws behalf is a 
reasonable sum. If this is yet to be paid to Miss W I leave it for her to arrange payment with 
Halifax. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman