DRN-2799033
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly declined his 
income protection claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties, so I have only provided a 
very brief summary of what happened below. 
Mr M, a taxi driver, holds a personal sick pay policy with LV. The policy is designed to pay a 
monthly benefit in the event that Mr M becomes unwell and is unable to work. In 2020 he 
made a claim for that benefit, on the grounds of pain in his wrist, hand and thumb preventing 
him from working.
LV declined Mr Ms claim. It said the available medical evidence did not demonstrate that his 
hand and wrist pain was preventing him from working. It also said that Mr M hadnt been 
able to evidence the number of hours hed claimed to have been working. But, LV did notice 
Mr M had been over-insured, and it refunded the additional premiums hed paid
Mr M complained, but LV maintained its position, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr Ms complaint was reviewed by two different investigators, the most recent of which didnt 
think it should be upheld. 
Briefly, the investigator said the medical evidence demonstrated Mr M had experienced pain 
in his wrist, hand and thumb, but it didnt demonstrate he was unable to work because of that 
pain. They also said that while they thought Mr M had provided evidence to show the hours 
he had worked, they were not recommending the complaint be upheld and that was because 
of the lack of supporting medical evidence. 
Mr M disagreed and reiterated his original concerns. He also said he drove a right-handed 
vehicle, and using his left hand to operate the gear stick was difficult given his symptoms 
and severe pain. Mr M also provided further medical evidence which LV, and then our 
investigator, considered. 
Neither LV or our investigator changed their position on the complaint in view of the new 
medical evidence. And so, as Mr M remained unhappy, the matter was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr M feels very strongly about what has happened, but it is important I 
highlight from the outset that I will not be addressing every argument that has been raised. I 
have considered everything that has been made available to this service, but will be 
focussing my findings on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, LV has a responsibility to consider 
claims both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy set out that LV will:
pay you if youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your occupation, and you arent 
doing any other paid or unpaid workBy main tasks we mean the things which cant 
reasonably be left out of your role, or changed by you or your employer.
Mr M says the available medical evidence in this complaint does demonstrate that the pain 
in his wrist, hand and thumb made him too unwell to carry out the main tasks of being a taxi 
driver. And he has set out that, for example, the pain in his wrist made it difficult for him to 
operate the gear stick when driving. 
I appreciate both the comments Mr M has made in relation to how his pain affected him, and 
the medical evidence provided, but Im not persuaded the evidence in this complaint 
supports Mr Ms position. Ill explain why:
Mr Ms patient record shows he spoke to his GP on 21 May 2020 and reported pain 
in the left thumb, hand and wrist. They show Mr M reported pain overnight, and when 
carrying bags, but that he still had full range of movement. Mr M is cited as being a 
taxi driver off work, and also as being in the shielding group. A diagnosis of carpel 
tunnel syndrome is provided in the entry, alongside a recommendation of sleep, rest, 
a wrist support and paracetamol.  And a discussion about a referral to physiotherapy 
post-Covid-19 is referenced too. 
The next entry relating to Mr Ms pain within the patient record is 10 June 2020. This 
entry says Mr M had wanted an x-ray, but his GP didnt consider one appropriate  
as there was no history of any trauma and an x-ray would not change the 
management of Mr Ms condition/symptoms. 
A further entry of 11 June 2020 reports Mr M as having attended an accident and 
emergency (A&E) department for an x-ray. The results of that x-ray are reported as 
NAD, which according to the NHS website means nothing abnormal discovered. 
And the plan for Mr M is noted as wearing a splint for two weeks. The corresponding 
A&E attendance summary letter also states, ongoing pain thumb/wrist. Patient 
reports that GP advised to come to ED for x-rayLikely tenosynovitis, splint applied. 
To see GP if any further concerns.
A second A&E attendance summary of 21 July 2020 reports Mr M as having 
attended A&E again, complaining of pain in the shoulder, arm, elbow, wrist and hand. 
It shows an MRI was performed, a diagnosis of a tendon injury given and RICE 
(rest, ice, compression and elevation) and pain relief was recommended. A thumb 
splint was also advised, and Mr M was told to refer back to primary care for review if 
his problem persisted. 
A telephone consultation with Mr Ms GP is noted within the patient record on 6 
August 2020. It says Mr M had reported his arm pain being improved and tolerable 
but was still experiencing numbness. 
The patient records also show that a referral to a community-based physiotherapist 
was made for Mr M on 22 September 2020. However, Mr M advised he was able to 
return to work and thus his appointment was cancelled. 
I think its clear from the above that Mr M was experiencing pain in and around his wrist, and I accept he was in discussion with his GP about managing that pain and had undergone 
medical examinations in relation to it. But I have seen no medical evidence which sets out 
that Mr Ms pain and/or the symptoms of his tendon injury were affecting his ability to work. 
So, overall, I dont think the medical evidence does corroborate Mr Ms claim of being unable 
to work as a taxi driver because of his pain. 
Again, I dont dispute that Mr M was in pain  but the available evidence in this complaint 
does not demonstrate he was too unwell to work because of it. So, in view of the policy 
terms cited above, I am not persuaded that Mr M has shown that he was too unwell to carry 
out the main tasks of his occupation. And it follows that I do not think LV acted unreasonably 
in declining his claim because of that. 
I also want to acknowledge that I am aware of the additional arguments made in relation to 
the payment of this claim  for example the amount of the payments Mr M wanted to receive 
under his policy and the evidence hed produced to show his hours worked. 
I do not consider it necessary to reach further findings on each of the arguments made 
surrounding any acceptance of Mr Ms claim, because I have already set out why I think LV 
declined it fairly. However, I too agree that Mr M had provided evidence of the hours he had 
worked, but as I have found LV declined the claim fairly in view of the lack of supporting 
medical evidence, I will not address this matter any further.
I realise that Mr M is likely to be further disappointed by my findings, but I do hope that he 
understands why I have reached this position. And I do, of course, hope that his pain 
continues to be manageable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman