DRN-3041939
The complaint
Mr W complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
made a decision not to offer him a renewal of his insurance policies.
What happened
Mr W held a Home and Lifestyle policy with NFU since March 2018, a car insurance policy 
since June 2019 and a Property Owners policy since July 2018. 
For the period of cover between 2021-2022, NFU made a commercial decision not to offer 
renewal of those policies. It wrote to Mr W to let him know of its decision not to invite 
renewal, in January 2021.
Mr W was unhappy with this decision, saying it was unfair as hed never made a claim on 
two of the policies and had only made one claim under one of the policies due to the 
pandemic  so there was no commercial reason to decline him insurance. He raised a 
complaint with NFU, and although he wasnt looking for insurance from them anymore, he 
thought they should retract the refusals from his file.
NFU said as it had made a commercial decision not to invite renewal, it wasnt obliged to 
give details about why this decision was made. It also confirmed that Mr W was free to find 
an alternative insurer.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
insurers arent duty bound to explain their reasons as the data can sometimes be 
commercially sensitive. She also said that she would be unable to recommend that NFU 
retracts the refusals, as NFU was entitled to make that decision, so the decision would need 
to be disclosed to future insurers.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators assessment of the complaint and wanted an 
ombudsman to look at everything. So the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate why Mr W feels the reason not to renew his insurance policies is unfair. And I 
know it must be frustrating for Mr W not to know the detail of the reasons behind the 
commercial decision-making which has affected his cover. 
Insurers are entitled to decide whether to offer a policy to someone, in the same way that 
customers can choose which insurer they want to approach for cover. But its generally for 
an insurer to assess the risk and decide whether it wants to cover that risk (and if so, on 
what terms and at what cost). 
At each renewal a new contract is entered into. The insurer decides whether to offer the 
renewal and the customer may then decide whether to accept the terms offered. Its not for 
me to say what risks an insurer should cover and so I wouldnt generally be able to tell an 
insurer whether it should provide cover for a particular customer.
However, insurers also have a duty to treat their customers fairly. Mr W says the decision 
isnt fair because theres no commercial reason to decline to offer him insurance  he only 
made one claim and has never defaulted on his insurance premiums. So I have considered 
carefully why NFU decided not to offer the renewals, to decide whether its decision to do so 
was fair and reasonable.
Looking at the correspondence between the parties in relation to the business interruption 
claim Mr W made, I can see there was clearly a breakdown in the relationship between Mr W 
and NFU, which NFU has said led to the commercial decision not to offer the renewals. I 
appreciate Mr W wouldnt have been aware of the details of the reason for the decision, but 
as our investigator explained, NFU wasnt under an obligation to provide Mr W with those 
details, as its entitled to decide whether to offer a renewal to a customer or not.
Ultimately, it wasnt unreasonable for NFU to consider that the relationship had broken down 
and to decline to offer insurance to Mr W as a result. An insurer is entitled to make that 
decision and I think it treated Mr W fairly by giving him 21 days notice, allowing adequate 
time for Mr W to source cover with a different insurer.
Im afraid, therefore, I wont be requiring NFU to retract its decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman