DRN-2843311
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society. Shes 
unhappy with the delay and the service she experienced when she asked Nationwide to 
process a chargeback for a cancelled holiday.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs H purchased a holiday through a travel company using her Nationwide 
credit card. In April, the travel company cancelled the holiday because of the pandemic but it 
would only offer a refund in the form of a credit voucher. Mrs H didnt want a voucher so she 
contacted Nationwide to see whether she could seek reimbursement under the chargeback 
scheme. She told us:
On 1 May 2020 she contacted Nationwide to see whether she could make a claim 
under the chargeback scheme in respect of the £2,065 shed paid for a holiday which 
had now been cancelled. Nationwide said shed be able to submit a claim and it 
would send her details in the post;
on 13 May she emailed Nationwide with details of the cancelled holiday along with 
correspondence shed received from the travel company and the form that 
Nationwide asked her to complete; 
at the start of June her husband visited a Nationwide branch for an update, and she 
received a text message explaining how busy Nationwide was and a request not to 
seek updates on the progress of her claim  Nationwide would be in touch as soon 
as possible;
on 15 June she telephoned Nationwide for an update and was told the chargeback 
could take 5-6 weeks from the date of receipt of her paperwork. Unhappy with this, 
she escalated her complaint about the service she was receiving and how long it was 
taking to process her refund;
over the next few days, she made a number of phone calls to Nationwide and each 
time she was promised a call-back, but no-one ever called her to provide her with an 
update on her complaint or her chargeback claim;
on 21 July, the travel company gave her a  refund, crediting her account with £2,065;
shes unhappy with Nationwide; it failed to return calls to her as promised; it didnt 
provide her with a service and it did absolutely nothing to help her; it has charged 
interest on her credit card account when it said it wouldnt; and shes now closed her 
accounts because of her dissatisfaction with whats happened.
Nationwide confirmed it had upheld Mrs Hs original complaint and it apologised for the 
frustration Mrs H had experienced and the service shed received. It acknowledged that the 
service it had given Mrs H was poor and it credited her account with £25 compensation in 
recognition of this. It also said it was sorry that after so many years, Mrs H had decided to 
close her accounts with it.
Nationwide told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories 
of dispute were very seriously delayed. It apologised for the inconvenience its customers 
experienced but said this had been outside its control; it had been dealing with a very high 
volume of disputes about cancelled flights and holidays and this had affected how quickly it 
could investigate these types of disputes.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that she was only looking at how Nationwide had dealt with Mrs Hs chargeback 
claim up to the point that she received a full refund from the travel company.
She said she thought it had handled Mrs Hs initial enquiry promptly by logging her dispute 
and sending out information within three days of Mrs H first contacting it. But she also said 
that its failure to return calls to Mrs H, as promised, wouldve added to Mrs Hs worry and 
anxiety. And she noted that although Nationwide had all the information it needed from 
Mrs H by mid-May, it hadnt managed to progress her claim before she received a full refund 
from the travel company two months later.
But she also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Nationwides operations 
and the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into account, 
she thought the £25 compensation paid by Nationwide was fair and in line with what she 
wouldve recommended.
Mrs H disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs H says it took more than three 
weeks for Nationwide to even look at her dispute and shes not convinced she would have 
got her money back if the travel company hadnt refunded her directly and in full. The £25 
shes been given doesnt cover the stress and anxiety shes been put through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mrs H received from Nationwide. This is because although Mrs H disputed a payment of 
£2,065, both parties have now confirmed that this was credited back to Mrs Hs current 
account in July 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Mrs H made 
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mrs H paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mrs H has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that she originally paid for  she bought a holiday and it was cancelled. And in 
normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect Nationwide to raise a chargeback 
for her, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within Visas chargeback 
rules.Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Nationwide to have progressed this chargeback sooner than it did.
However, these werent normal circumstances, and although Nationwide didnt help Mrs H to 
obtain her refund in the way I wouldve expected, she didnt lose out. I say this because in 
spite of the challenges facing all parties at this particular difficult time, Mrs H received her 
refund in full from the travel company directly.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mrs H. 
Shed booked and paid a considerable sum for a holiday, and from what shes told us, her 
experience with the travel company initially when it would only offer a credit voucher 
wouldve understandably caused her some anxiety. 
But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the travel company, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mrs H first contacted Nationwide, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
I understand that from the time Mrs H first contacted Nationwide on 3 June, it froze the 
transaction to ensure that no interest was charged on it and I think this was the right thing to 
do  Mrs H hasnt been charged interest from the point that she disputed the transaction and 
started the process to claim a refund. Ive also noted that Nationwide has paid Mrs H £25 in 
recognition of the poor service she received when it took three weeks to look at her claim 
and it didnt return her telephone calls. And although I wouldve expected Nationwide to 
identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the 
information I have, I dont think Mrs H fell into this category. So, for the reasons Ive given, I 
think £25 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and 
I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman