DRN-2224480
The complaint
Miss D seeks to recover about £2,500 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from her 
bank account in 2019 as a result of a third-party scam. 
What happened
In September 2019, Miss D made a payment from her HSBC account with the intention of 
procuring temporary accommodation with the online booking site, Airbnb. 
Miss D was contacted by someone (C) claiming to be a landlord of a suitable property 
which could be reserved through Airbnb. But unbeknown to Miss D at the time, C had 
provided her with a link to a counterfeit Airbnb website and invoice that instructed her to pay 
by bank transfer. So, without knowing, instead of paying for a genuine reservation through 
Airbnb, Miss D paid £2,489.57 to a prepaid card controlled by a fraudster. 
HSBC said it is not liable for a refund, because Miss D authorised the payment that made up 
this loss  and the bank also says it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to 
try to recoup the money from the payee bank once notified of the scam by Miss D the 
following day. However, in light of the service it provided her, HSBC offered Miss D £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss D raised a complaint as she thought the bank ought to go further and refund the entire 
payment amount. When HSBC maintained its position, the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint, on the basis that he thought HSBC 
ought to have flagged the payment as eliciting further checking before it was let go. And had 
the bank intervened, this ultimately wouldve prevented Miss Ds loss. Our investigator also 
agreed that HSBCs proposed £200 for distress and inconvenience was fair. So, in addition 
to this compensation, he recommended that HSBC refund the disputed payment, plus 
interest. Miss D agreed with this. 
HSBC does not agree. In summary, it submits that the payment was not sufficiently unusual 
for the banks fraud detection systems to have been triggered. Especially, because it was a 
modest amount that was going to recognised genuine prepaid card provider. And even if it 
had intervened, HSBC says its speculative that this wouldve prevented the payment from 
being sent. Also, HSBC asserts that Miss D didnt mitigate her loss, because she hadnt 
researched the recommended way to pay for an Airbnb booking.    
Because HSBC is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome and for much the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
It is common ground that Miss D authorised the payment using her security credentials. She 
believed at the time she was making a genuine reservation on an established booking 
website. I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment, even though Miss D was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although she did not intend her money to go to the 
scammers, under the PSRs, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss D is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking account of the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I consider that when Miss D authorised the payment, there were clear triggers which ought 
reasonably to have alerted HSBC to the unusual and/or uncharacteristic activity by Miss D 
with regard to her account. HSBC should, in my view, have acted on these by taking 
additional steps, or making additional checks, before processing the payment  as it was 
reasonably foreseeable that not doing so might result in financial harm.
Ive looked at Miss Ds statements going back to February 2019, which I consider gives a fair 
sample size to assess what typical activity for her account was. The account appears to 
have primarily been used for day-to-day spending. There are card payments, payments to 
her HSBC credit card and online payments; most of which were for a few hundred pounds or 
less. By contrast, the payment of £2,489.57 was an unusually large amount. It follows that 
the disputed payment signified a sudden and uncharacteristic increase in spending from the 
account, especially because the payment amount represented the largest single value 
transaction leaving the account for some months (if ever). 
The transaction was an international payment to a new payee. Whereas, the overwhelming 
majority of payments were to existing beneficiaries with bank accounts within the UK. And 
the limited international payments that Miss D did make were all for far lesser amounts under 
£100. Further, HSBC is aware that overseas payments are a technique often employed by 
fraudsters, because the sending banks ability to recover money sent can be restricted 
compared to a domestic payment. 
The beneficiary of this payment is an important factor. I think HSBC, as a large international 
bank, ought fairly and reasonably to be aware that a lot of fraudulent payments go onto 
prepaid cards. So, the recipient bank, with its primary business being prepaid cards, 
presented an additional risk to the transaction which is something that I think HSBC ought to 
have identified at the time. Even more so, because the payment value was just under £2,500 
 which is a large amount for someone to move onto a prepaid card, not least when the card 
itself is not in their own name. All things considered, Im satisfied there were enough triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
activity that, in my opinion, a professional banker could and should have realised that 
something didnt look quite right  and that further enquiries would be appropriate before 
going further. I conclude that, in failing to do this, HSBC didnt do enough to protect Miss D 
from the risk of loss.
Ive therefore gone on to determine what difference (if any) such a conversation between 
Miss D and HSBC wouldve made. In other words, Ive thought carefully about whether its 
more likely than not that HSBC intervening and asking Miss D questions wouldve unlocked 
the scam before her money was sent and effectively lost. 
In the circumstances, Im persuaded there were reasonable grounds for the bank to share 
information about the commonness of scammers using prepaid cards as a means to receive 
the proceeds of fraud. I find it proportionate for HSBC to have questioned why Miss D was 
paying this amount to a prepaid card  which is not the same as expecting bank staff to have 
a detailed understanding of the safest payment procedures according to Airbnb. 
Miss D seems honest and straightforward, so I have no reason to doubt that she wouldve 
explained that she was intent on making an online reservation with a host through Airbnb  
this is what she believed she was doing at the time. Therefore, had the bank probed into the 
purpose of the payment, I think Miss D would probably have been open to telling HSBC 
about her understanding of the booking conditions.
I accept that Miss D was already aware that the recipient bank was a prepaid card provider 
(it was evident from the payment instructions she entered). Nevertheless, Im not satisfied 
that Miss D should reasonably be expected to have identified the risk of sending money to a 
prepaid card for services offered. Besides, HSBC was the professional in financial matters; 
and Miss D a layperson.
On her version of events, Miss D trusted the legitimacy of using Airbnb to secure 
accommodation. And this was a very sophisticated scam by the look of it. Miss D was duped 
by the counterfeit Airbnb website, together with convincing emails and an Airbnb branded 
invoice that C had presented her with. It was these clever tactics that convinced Miss D that 
making payment via bank transfer was the accepted method of payment for Airbnb.
On account of this, bank staff simply asking why the payment was being sent overseas to a 
prepaid card would probably have unveiled that Miss D thought that this was a safe way of 
paying. Yet, conversely, HSBC wouldve known about the risk involved in her proposed 
payment instruction. So, by contrast, HSBC explaining this risk wouldve been at odds with 
what Miss D initially thought.  
Had HSBC intervened, Im satisfied that Miss D wouldve at the very least sought further 
clarity about the method of paying for the reservation. I find it likely that this wouldve led her 
to question the matter directly with Airbnb. Even if Miss D was still intent on making the 
booking, simply checking with Airbnb wouldve unravelled what was really happening. The 
company couldve quickly identified that this was not a legitimate Airbnb host or booking 
advertisement. Indeed, warning about precisely this type of scam is on Airbnbs website. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if HSBC had asked probing questions 
are reinforced by the fact that Miss D did actually contact Airbnb immediately after 
discovering that the website C had sent her had become inactive overnight, i.e. the day after 
she made the payment. She saysand I acceptthat checking with Airbnb as soon as she 
started to entertain doubts made her aware that the whole thing was a scam.All in all, had HSBC carried out appropriate questioning here, it seems probable that Miss D 
wouldve become credulous about the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. 
The fraud wouldve failed; and Miss D would not have lost £2,489.57. So, in the 
circumstances, I am satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Miss D for the 
loss she suffered without any reduction, together with interest to compensate her for being 
deprived of the money she lost.  
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness, 
I will say that, whilst there was a little delay by HSBC at this stage, it wouldve made no 
difference because the recipient banks records show that the scammers withdrew the 
money within half an hour or so of the transfer, well before Miss D had notified HSBC. 
I have also considered whether Miss D should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributing to her own loss. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what 
she was doing or the consequences of her actions. She thought she was securing a genuine 
booking via a recognised online platform for temporary accommodation. Miss D did not 
foresee a risk in paying for her intended stay in this way  she was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
HSBC has accepted that some of the service it provided to Miss D was lacking and offered 
her £200 compensation for the impact of this. Ive carefully considered all the circumstances 
and Im of the opinion that HSBCs handling of this matter as a whole has indeed caused 
Miss D distress and inconvenience. Ive kept in mind that much of this distress was caused 
by the act of the scammer who tricked her into making the payment  but HSBC could 
ultimately have prevented this. As such, I think a total of £200 is a fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Miss D £2,489.57 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum, from the date of the disputed payment 
until the date of settlement; and 
If it hasnt already done so, pay Miss D £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman