DRN-4481645
The complaint
Mr S has complained after Killik & Co LLP (Killik) wouldnt convert the American Depository 
Receipts (ADRs) he held through them.   
What happened
Mr S says he holds several Russian ADRs through Killik, which were suspended from the 
London Stock Exchange (LSE) in March 2022. 
Mr S says shortly after this he contacted Killik. He said he had found out about US banks 
offering conversion programmes for ADRs and global depository receipts (GDRs) into 
shares. 
In May 2022, Killik responded to Mr S to say they would not be offering such a programme. 
They said their custodian could not hold Russian shares and that their legal counsel had 
suggested that buying, selling or transferring shares might violate the sanctions in place.    
Mr S complained to Killik but when they wouldnt alter their position, he brought his complaint 
to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it. She acknowledged that its not the responsibility of Killik that 
the UK government had suspended trading in these Russian stocks. She said that the terms 
of Mr S account didnt provide for conversion, and she felt Killik were acting fairly in the 
circumstances in not doing so. 
Mr S didnt agree. He raised several points in response. Amongst these, he said that many 
other western investors had taken advantage of conversion programmes for such ADRs. He 
said doing so, had shown Killiks concern of illegality in conversion was unfounded. He also 
reiterated that with the current suspension, his ADR value was showing a loss of over 
£50,000. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr S is clearly unhappy that Killik wont convert these ADRs into shares for him, as he hopes 
they can be certificated and then traded. Killik have provided us with a copy of the relevant 
terms and conditions. I havent seen anything that suggests Killik allows customers to 
convert and certificate ADRs using their service. 
I therefore have to consider if its fair and reasonable of Killik to refuse to assist with the 
conversion. Killik themselves wouldnt be able to hold the underlying shares in these 
companies post-conversion, as they dont access the Moscow Exchange. So, conversion 
would have necessitated Mr S sourcing an account that could hold the shares  which would 
likely have needed to be in Russia, and I understand that currently that is a difficult thing for 
an individual to do. Even if he could do that, I dont think Killik would be treating him unfairly 
by refusing to be involved in the conversion process. This is because following the 
unprecedented sanctions that went into place following Russias invasion of Ukraine, there 
was a lot of uncertainty in the UK financial sector about whether (or how) assisting in the 
conversion process would breach any of those laws. Many firms have chosen to take a risk 
averse approach towards potentially breaching them, given the uncertainty, and have 
refused to assist. The level of risk a firm is willing to take (which has an influence on the 
products and services they offer their customers) is something Im satisfied is at Killiks 
discretion.
I think its also important to note, that even if they were able to and had agreed to, its 
unlikely that Mr S as a UK based customer would be able to sell the shares. I say this 
because they would need to be traded through a Russian broker, but Russia currently bans 
anyone from the UK from selling Russian shares. Meaning I think its very unlikely Mr S has 
suffered any financial loss from the refusal to convert the ADRs. I know that Mr S has 
mentioned other businesses that may have provided for conversions. However, that is likely 
to involve different circumstances and I am only considering the fairness of Killiks decision.  
I appreciate that Killik took quite a long period of time to confirm to Mr S that they would be 
offering a conversion programme. I know this will have been a period of significant concern 
and worry for Mr S. However, considering the difficult decision, the legal advice needed, the 
concern Killik would have had for its customers and that they were trying to treat customers 
fairly, I dont think this time frame was unreasonable. For the same reasons as above, even 
if the time frame was unreasonable, its not caused any loss, as Mr S wouldnt have been 
able to sell his ADRs at any earlier point. 
In summary, I dont think Killik are acting unfairly by refusing to convert the ADRs, a service 
not provided for within the terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons stated above, is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman