DRN-3645897
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) wont reimburse the money 
hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr A has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. He says that he wanted to 
invest in cryptocurrency but had no prior investment experience. He spent several weeks 
conducting his own research before he came across a company Ill refer to as B  which 
claimed to match investors and brokers together. Mr A saw that B was endorsed by a 
celebrity and had lots of positive reviews. He sent an online request for contact. The next 
day, Mr A received a telephone call from a representative of a company Ill refer to as N, 
who explained that B had matched N with Mr A. N opened a trading account for Mr A, and 
gave him access to an online trading portal which he could use to keep track of his 
investments.
Mr As explained that he initially invested small amounts via N to test the water. In 
November and December 2020, four debit card payments were made. His small investments 
generated some returns, and he was able to withdraw some of his profit. He was reassured 
by this and began to invest larger amounts, by transferring money into his genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange wallet first. In total, Mr A invested £15,220.90 as set out in the 
table below:
Date of transaction Type of transaction Amount of transaction
30 November 2020 Debit card payment £252.19
1 December 2020 Debit card payment £756.47
3 December 2020 Debit card payment £1,425.34
4 December 2020 Debit card payment £1,016.90
15 December 2020 Faster payment £5,000.00
22 December 2020 Faster payment £1,600.00
31 December 2020 Faster payment £2,000.00
14 January 2021 Faster payment £1,600.00
1 February 2021 Faster payment £80.00
1 February 2021 Faster payment £40.00
15 April 2021 Faster payment £1,450.00
Mr A says he saw his investment grow to around £36,000 and he decided to withdraw all of 
his money. At that point, N stopped corresponding with him and he lost access to the online 
trading portal. He realised hed been scammed and reported the matter to The Co-op.
The Co-op said it was unable to chargeback the debit card payments because the relevant 
time limit had elapsed when Mr A reported the scam, and chargebacks would have no 
reasonable prospects of success anyway. And the funds sent by faster payment went into 
Mr As cryptocurrency exchange wallet before being lost to the scam, so the bank couldnt 
recover them. 
The Co-op has declined to reimburse Mr A. Its said that two of the faster payments Mr A 
instructed triggered its fraud detection systems (the £5,000 payment made on                     
15 December 2020 and the £2,000 payment made on 31 December 2020) and it had a 
telephone conversation with him on both occasions. He confirmed that hed made payments 
to the merchant previously, and that the transactions were very low risk. He said he had 
undertaken his own due diligence before investing and received guidance from a financial 
advisor.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt think that the debit card payments were unusual enough to expect 
The Co-op to have been suspicious about them. So, she didnt recommend that they were 
reimbursed. But she thought that The Co-op ought to have done more to protect Mr A from 
financial harm when the first faster payment triggered its fraud detection systems and, if it 
had, the scam would have unravelled. So, she recommended that the bank reimburse all of 
the faster payments, but that Mr A should bear the responsibility for 50% of his loss from    
31 December 2020 when she wouldve expected him to do more to protect himself based on 
the banks intervention. 
Mr A accepted our investigators recommendation, but The Co-op didnt. It said that, despite 
its intervention on 31 December 2020, Mr A continued to invest with N. So, it couldnt have 
prevented the scam if it had done more to protect Mr A when it spoke to him about the first 
faster payment, and it should not be held liable for his loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that Mr A properly authorised and consented to the debit card payments 
and authorised the faster payments. So, all the payments made to the scam were 
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations  even though Mr A was the victim of 
fraud, and he didnt intend the payments to go to a fraudster. This means that The Co-op 
had an obligation to follow Mr As payment instructions, and Mr A is presumed liable for his 
loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are circumstances in 
which a bank should make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm. I consider that The Co-op should:Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Considering the relatively low value of the debit card payments made as part of this scam, 
and Mr As prior account activity, I dont think its reasonable to expect The Co-ops fraud 
detection systems to have been triggered by them. So, I dont think The Co-op couldve done 
more to prevent these losses, and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask the bank 
to reimburse Mr A.
But the first faster payment for £5,000 which Mr A instructed did trigger The Co-ops fraud 
detection systems and the bank had a telephone conversation with Mr A in which its 
reasonable to expect it to have asked some probing questions about the payment in order to 
satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of financial harm, and to have imparted relevant advice 
about scams based on what Mr A said. But Ive listened to a recording of the telephone 
conversation and Im not satisfied that it did.
Mr A told the bank the payment was going to his investment trading account, so that he 
could invest in cryptocurrency. He said it wasnt the first time hed invested via N and hed 
done his own due diligence on the company, but that hed be interested to hear about any 
flags the bank had identified. The Co-op confirmed that the only reason the payment had 
flagged was because it was being sent to a new payee. Mr A was reassured by this and said 
he thought that might have been the case. The Co-op told Mr A that its unlikely his money 
would be recovered if it turned out he was the victim of a scam, and checked that no-one 
had asked him to move money to a safe account or pressured him to make the payment in 
any way. Then the payment was processed. 
Cryptocurrency scams often involve money passing through more than one account in the 
customers name, and they were not uncommon at the time. I think The Co-op wouldve 
been aware of this. The Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings 
about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By late 2020, when Mr A instructed the first faster 
payment, I think The Co-op ought to have had time to digest these warnings and put 
mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. So, Im satisfied that Mr As 
monetary loss ought to have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, The     
Co-op. And Im satisfied that The Co-op can be held responsible for his loss if it could have 
prevented the scam from the point the first faster payment was instructed by asking Mr A 
some probing questions. 
By late 2020, I think The Co-op had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of 
how these scams work  for example, that customers often move money to an account in 
their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster, that scam companies often claim to 
have celebrity endorsers and that customers are usually given access to an online portal 
which convinces them that their investment is performing well  to have been able to identify 
the risk of harm from fraud. With its industry knowledge, I think The Co-op ought to have 
asked Mr A some probing questions and given him information regarding the prevalence and 
typical features of cryptocurrency scams before processing the £5,000 payment. Mr A was 
quite convinced by the scam by the time the telephone call took place but, from what he said 
to the bank during the conversation, he was open to considering any flags the bank had 
identified. I consider that The Co-op ought to have asked more questions to determine 
whether the typical features of cryptocurrency scams were present here. And it ought to 
have provided meaningful advice about cryptocurrency scams, and how Mr A could protect himself.
If The Co-op had done enough, I think it would most likely have become obvious to the bank 
and Mr A that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
£5,000 payment, or any subsequent payments, being made. Of course, The Co-op could 
also have declined to make the payment and subsequent payments altogether if Mr A still 
wanted to go ahead with them, and given the circumstances here, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to do so.
Ive considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence and, overall, I dont think he should in terms of the first two faster 
payments. Of course, theres more Mr A couldve done with the benefit of hindsight to protect 
himself from financial harm. But:
Mr A believed that B had matched him with N, and hed seen lots of positive reviews 
about B, as well as a celebrity endorsement.
Mr A invested small amounts via N to begin with, as a precautionary measure.
Mr A had access to an online trading portal which showed his investment was doing 
well.
Mr A was reassured when he was able to withdraw some of his profit.
Ive looked at the correspondence that passed between N and Mr A up to and 
including the time that the second faster payment was made, and I dont consider 
that there were any red flags in the conversation. There was lots of communication 
between the parties and a good rapport was built. I think its obvious that Mr A wasnt 
suspicious, and he thought his investments were performing well  being the 
unwitting victim of a cruel and callous scam.
The scammer convinced Mr A that all was above board, and the bank made no real 
efforts to dissuade him of this during the call that took place on 15 December 2020.
Im satisfied that all of the above was enough to satisfy a reasonable person  especially one 
that had no prior investment experience and had not been educated about cryptocurrency 
scams by their bank.
But Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation The Co-op had with Mr A on  
31 December 2020, and Ive heard that the bank gave Mr A more information about 
cryptocurrency scams and how to protect himself from them at that time. Mr A confirmed his 
understanding that cryptocurrency scams arent uncommon and noted one of the useful tips 
the bank gave him on keeping safe. But he continued to make payments to N for several 
more months, presumably without carrying out any further checks on N. I appreciate that    
Mr A was already deeply under the scammers spell at this point, but armed with the 
information hed received from the bank, his knowledge that cryptocurrency scams werent 
uncommon and the checks he knew he had and hadnt carried out on N, I think its 
reasonable to expect him to have done to protect himself from and including                       
31 December 2020. So, I dont think it would be fair to require the bank to reimburse his full 
loss from this point. I think he should bear responsibility for 50% of his loss.
The Co-op has argued that, as it did a better job of advising Mr A about the relevant scam 
type on 31 December 2020, but he still continued to invest with N, it couldnt have 
prevented the scam if it had done a better job on the call that took place on                         
15 December 2020, so it shouldnt reasonably be liable for any of Mr As financial loss. Im not persuaded by what the banks said here. Ive listened to a recording of the second 
telephone call and I dont consider that it was handled particularly well  Mr A was seemingly 
frustrated, and the banks representative was abrupt, cutting him off and talking over him 
several times. Im not convinced that the tone of the call was conducive to successfully 
imparting important information. 
In addition, I think Mr As frame of mind was different on 15 and 31 December 2020. On     
15 December 2020, he told the bank hed done his own due diligence, but he was open to 
hearing whether the bank had any concerns. The bank reassured him that the first faster 
payment had only flagged because it was of high value and going to a new payee. By the 
time the second telephone conversation took place on 31 December 2020, Mr A had already 
been reassured by his bank that there was nothing suspicious about N  he said The Co-op 
had already done checks on a transaction going to N and confirmed it hadnt picked up on 
anything suspicious. And of course, he hadnt experienced any issues after that payment 
was made, no doubt reinforcing that N was genuine in his mind. 
So, I think it was more difficult for the bank to successfully intervene by 31 December 2020. 
And Im not persuaded that a good intervention on 15 December 2020 would not have been 
successful simply because a later intervention, that was better than the first, didnt succeed 
in preventing the scam.
Finally, I will add that I dont consider The Co-op couldve done more to recover the funds 
that Mr A lost to this scam. As the bank has said, it was out of time to raise a chargeback on 
the debit card payments when Mr A reported the scam to it. And banks dont have to raise 
chargebacks if it looks clear that a cardholder would lose in any event, as it does here. The 
faster payments went to Mr As cryptocurrency exchange wallet, and they were moved on 
from there. So, I dont think the bank could reasonably have done anything to recover them.
To conclude, Im persuaded that The Co-op ought reasonably to have done more to protect 
Mr A on 15 December 2020 and, if it had, I think its likely the scam would have unravelled 
without any of the faster payments being made. And I think Mr A ought reasonably to have 
done more to protect himself from financial harm after the conversation he had with the bank 
on 31 December 2020. So, I think its fair for him to bear 50% of the responsibility for his loss 
from that point. Ive decided that The Co-op should:
Reimburse 100% of the first two faster payments Mr A instructed as part of this 
scam.
Reimburse 50% of the remaining faster payments Mr A instructed as part of this 
scam.
Pay interest at a rate of 8% per annum (because Mr A has confirmed that he was 
looking for investment opportunities at the relevant time and I think its likely he would 
have invested his money elsewhere if he had not been defrauded, but I cant know 
where) from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct The Co-operative Bank Plc to:
Reimburse 100% of the first two faster payments Mr A instructed as part of this 
scam.
Reimburse 50% of the remaining faster payments Mr A instructed as part of this scam.
Pay interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman