DRN-3564068
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MWM.
Mr T himself has engaged an adviser to act for him so Ill refer to any issues or replies as 
coming from Mr T himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MWM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 47 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was described as 
being in good health. He had accrued over 26 years worth of service with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts BSPS was approximately 
£340,344. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr T had joined the new TATA define contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to further contributions in the months before this 
advice was given.
Mr T lived in a home valued at around £270,000 with an 18-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £50,000. 
Mr T earned £34,500 still in the steel industry. Mrs T also worked (part-time) and 
earned about £5,000 per year. But she was also apparently a shareholder in a limited 
company business Mr T owned in addition to his full-time job. From this Mrs T was 
paid around £15,000 per year. After all their household expenses they had some 
disposable income left over.
Mr and Mrs T had a loan outstanding of costing £163 per month and didnt have any 
demonstrable savings.
MWM set out its advice in a suitability report on 18 September 2017. In this it advised Mr T 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. MWM 
said this would allow Mr T to achieve his objectives. Mr T accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2021 Mr T complained to MWM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, MWM said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr T had at the time. 
However, MWM has since said it would like to settle the complaint. It said it would do this in 
full and under a specific calculator which the financial regulator has established for these 
cases. So, MWM has asked for Mr T to supply details of his transferred pension value so it 
can begin the process of establishing if there has been a loss. MWM has said if there is a 
loss, then it will pay what is due under the guidelines issued by the financial regulator.
However, Mr T still hasnt provided these details. This is most unfortunate as weve asked for 
the value several times now and Im satisfied that Mr T is aware of what is needed to start 
the redress process.  So, even though I can see MWM is apparently fulling willing to settle 
this complaint using the approach we endorse, it cant evidently be resolved informally. Its 
therefore come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ts best interests. In particular, I have also carefully 
considered the final response letter from MWM and those from its legal representatives. Ive 
carefully considered too, the various other responses made to the points contained within 
our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. However, I should also add that Mr T 
now needs to supply the details of his transferred pension to enable MWM to carry out the 
redress calculation.
Financial viability 
MWM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
There seems to have been several transfer analyses produced, no doubt due to the updated 
CETV values that Mr T was given over several weeks and also the different types of funds 
which MWM was considering recommending to him back in 2017. I also think some details 
were still emerging around that time of the new BSPS2 scheme and the values contained 
within. So, in explaining the critical yields and some of the other analysis, Ive used the 
transfer report dated 13 September 2017 and the suitability report of 18 September 2017.
It's not clear to me that Mr T would have been shown the transfer analysis report(s). In my 
experience, the data contained within these are typically summarised and explained for 
consumers within the suitability report. Put another way, the suitability report tends to make 
the critical yield comparison easier to understand and Id normally expect the consumer to 
make their decision based on the information contained within this.
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr T was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
MWM said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the BSPS2 at the age of 65 
was 7.04%. However, I think the suitability report downplayed the value of using critical 
yields as a comparative metric as it said Mr T wanted to retire at the age of 55. But whilst it 
provided the critical yield for a retirement at 65, the suitability report didnt in my view clearly 
show the yield for a much earlier retirement. I think this was wrong of the adviser because if 
Mr T really was insistent on retiring at this much younger age, I think he would have found 
the corresponding critical yield rate useful in helping him arrive at an informed decision.I say this because the critical yield rate for a retirement at the age of 55 was much higher, at 
over 17%. 
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was a relatively long way off for Mr T 
and so I very much doubt whether retiring at 55 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. 
But I think there was enough evidence at the time showing that achieving enough growth 
outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was going to be 
unachievable and I think this should have been brought to Mr Ts attention. I say this with the 
following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.4% per year for 17 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. But for a retirement at 55, the discount rate was only 
3.4%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although these hadnt 
been updated for some time and we were in a period then of low interest rates and low bond 
yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be lower. 
At the time, MWM assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) as moderate. But I think even this 
was too high. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr T was not a risk taker and he didnt like the 
idea of his capital, if transferred to a fund, going down as well as up. I dont think Mr T 
himself had any experience of wider money market investments more commonly found in 
personally managed pensions and so he probably had no past experience to draw upon.
I think MWMs main point in relation to the critical yield analysis is that it wasnt really 
relevant in this case because Mr T wanted to retire earlier. I do understand the point being 
made. However, the use of critical yields to help consumers weigh up the suitability of 
transfers was a requirement from the regulator at the time. And even if I were to only use the 
much earlier retirement age put forward by MWM, the yield was over 17% and there was 
simply no way Mr T could expect to see annual growth in that range if he agreed to transfer 
his pension to a personal plan.
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators lower projections and also to the discount rate were 
most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 3 -to-5% were 
much more realistic. These were below the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this 
showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, MWMs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was much 
higher than Mr Ts CETV. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to 
the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was 
£450,668. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in MWMs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are well above Mr Ts 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr T could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, MWM also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. MWM said the critical yields to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and MWM itself says Mr T wouldnt have wanted to transfer 
to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees 
associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr T, would 
have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, MWMs own 
figures, shown partially in its suitability report and more fully in the transfer analysis 
documents, showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr T would 
likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the 
available DB scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections MWM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr T well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to 
say these were not comparing like-with-like. What MWM was showing Mr T were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. And 
some of the scenarios showed him running out of funds in his 80s whereas his DB pension 
was guaranteed for life.
Of course, according to MWM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, MWM said Mr T also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all 
the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
MWM recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Ts 
wider objectives. The suitability report mentioned several times that retiring from the steel 
industry was something Mr T was very much hoping to do at the age of 55. Ive noted that 
when given a pension questionnaire to fill out, Mr T ticked, in level of priority, what he 
thought were the important issues for him. However, Im mindful that these were pre-
determined priorities already set out for him in the questionnaire. Nevertheless, I think they 
give a flavour of what he considered to be important to his pension thinking at the time:
1. The security of my pension fund,
2. the ability to retire early,
3. provision for a spouses and dependents pension,4. to increase my pension,
5. tax-free lump sums at retirement,
6. lump sum benefits upon my death before retirement.
I have also used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the 
following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away. The following areas 
were set out in the suitability report effectively justifying the recommendation to transfer. It 
was also recorded that Mr T would be prepared, at age 55, to either keep working and 
withdraw earnings from his limited company to help continue pay the mortgage until age 65 
when the mortgage expired, or he would also consider taking some tax-free cash to reduce 
the outstanding mortgage and therefore bring down his outgoings. Regarding the transfer 
rationale, the suitability report said:
It satisfies your objective of completely severing the link between your pension and 
your employer,
when you retire, you can access the portion of the tax-free cash you require, without 
having to withdraw the full amount so it can continue to be invested within your 
pension plan,
you can choose to take additional or ad hoc tax-free cash / income payments at any 
time in the future,
it provides flexible death benefits for your family,
any contributions will be invested in funds which benefit from a tax-efficient status 
and when you come to draw benefits from the plan, you can take up to 25% of the 
fund tax-free.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that MWM recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the general flexibility and control it offered to Mr T. I have therefore 
considered these issues in turn. 
Retiring early and flexibility
Mr T evidently told the adviser he would eventually like to leave the steel industry and 
maintain his self-employment through his limited company in retirement if he could achieve 
this at an early age; 55 years old was mentioned several times. 
But whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr T probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. I accept that some of the adviser / client notes referred to 
Mr T insisting on an early retirement, but in reality, there was no plan to retire early 
specifically at 55. In fact, some discussions clearly took place about a retirement at 58, 
rather than 55. So I think Mr T was merely assessing, generally, what his options might be. 
He was still only 47 years old and still had a dependent child, a 17-year mortgage and I think 
a lot could have changed before his realistic retirement age came into focus. He also still 
had over 17 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA. 
Even if using an aspirational age of 55, this was still over seven years away and 58 would be 
over a decade away.
Ive also noted that the adviser said on the suitability report, you cannot see yourself a 
TATA steel until the age of 65, you would like to go at 55 if you can which I think left room for the adviser to question and challenge whether this was right for him and whether this 
should have been a major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB 
scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower 
overall financial benefits at retirement. 
But even if I were to consider that Mr Ts retirement hopes were more fixed than aspirational 
- and he really did plan to retire early - I think MWM should have assessed the possibility of 
achieving this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under 
the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an option for Mr T. Retiring early from 
a DB scheme, such as BSPS2 would simply have meant Mr Ts pension benefits would have 
been somewhat different, due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. 
MWMs analysis said that at the date of stopping BSPS contributions (31 March 2017) Mr T 
already had a preserved pension income of £13,017 per year. Increased in line with 
prescribed assumptions, Mr Ts benefits from the date of the analysis to his NRA (65) were 
£20,205 per year. Using a retirement age of 55 instead his benefits were around £14,500 per 
year. The suitability report said Mr T could live off £20,000 per year in retirement although it 
didnt elaborate on this.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr T wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. If all he 
needed was around £20,000 per year I think the adviser should have pointed out that this 
seems achievable given the above income and the other income he could call upon. By this I 
mean that Mr T had already clearly said he could continue to operate his limited company 
business if he left the steel industry at the comparatively young age of 55. We know the 
income generated from this was £15,000 per year as this is what he said his wife earned 
from this company. No information was recorded by the adviser about any further financial 
assets in the limited company though. 
But it certainly isnt unreasonable to say that by his eventual retirement age, Mr T could have 
built up a reasonable sum in his DC fund. We also know Mrs T had also said she would 
continue to work. The above were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because 
current members were being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at 
around the very time this advice was being sought. I dont think MWM adequately explained 
these things to Mr T as its advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to 
obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ts pension entitlements in both the DB and DC 
schemes, the limited company income, and anything else Mrs T earned wouldnt have fairly 
easily met their anticipated future income requirements, without any need for him to transfer 
away from a DB scheme. I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr T could 
have been in an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme 
of considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant 
indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by 
the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a reasonable DC scheme over a number 
of years. And if Mr T ever found he needed flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, 
rather than transferring away from the former.
MWM also promoted to Mr T that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But MWM should have 
been telling Mr T at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his case, also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
I think flexibility would have sounded positive to Mr T. However, I cant see that Mr T 
required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, flexibility was 
poorly defined by MWM. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr T required changing 
how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. Retirement for him was still a fair way off and 
he already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a consequence 
of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. 
I think its easy to discount this second pension by saying it had only recently started and 
therefore didnt have much in it. But if taking, say, the relatively young retirement age of 58, 
one could say Mr T would by then have been a member of this scheme for over 10 years. 
This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr T and his employer - 
6% and 10% respectively and he seemed to have a modest capacity to increase 
contributions if he wished in the years ahead. Its therefore reasonable to say that this 
pension could have accrued reasonable sums of money by his mid-to-late fifties and it 
shouldnt be discounted.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early, flexibility and / or accessing tax-free cash 
might have been appealing, all this needed to be considered against the other options Mr T 
had; in my view this included opting for the BSPS2. 
Control of the funds
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr T had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr T was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the 
new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
I accept that Mr T may have had a basic understanding of pensions but as Ive said, theres 
no evidence he was an experienced investor. He had his new DC pension with TATA. But 
Ive seen nothing showing the investment strategy for this pension was anything other than 
an off the shelf mix of investments commonly found in most company DC schemes. And I 
think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over 
£340,000 of his own transferred funds from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years 
ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr T would have required ongoing financial advice and 
support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him. He 
simply didnt have the experience to personally manage the funds.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr T died. The benefits included related to both pre-
retirement and post-retirement.
Mr T was married and had a child so I think the value of these benefits were most likely 
underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful 
to Mrs T if he predeceased her. I think his wife would have found this benefit a source of 
comfort and security. MWM didnt really record many details about Mrs Ts financial 
situation. But Ive noted her part-time income was modest and theres certainly no evidence 
she had a meaningful pension of her own.I therefore dont think MWM made the real value of this benefit area clear enough. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
I think the adviser probably discussed with Mr T that hed be able to pass on the value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive 
feature to him. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because 
of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think MWM 
explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a different retirement income in 
exchange for different death benefits.
Mr T was only 47 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr T had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still relatively young 
(in pension terms), theres no real doubt that retiring at 55 was at least mentioned. The 
adviser should have therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 55 would 
likely have many years ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus 
leaving less to pass on to someone.
I cant be sure the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 47 years 
old, another modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr T really did want to leave a large legacy for a specific relative or someone else. 
But more so, it doesnt appear that MWM took into account the fact that Mr T could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr T already had some options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt just die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ts situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
MWM said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
MWM said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MWMs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MWM 
should have reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr T through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to MWMs recommendation to Mr T to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
MWM recommended that Mr T invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr T was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think MWM ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason.
I think Mr Ts circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to him still 
being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have been an 
actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a 
smaller second DC pension, and another income stream with his limited company, this 
supported that strategy in my view. 
I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I think it was clear to all 
parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr T still had several years before he 
could realistically retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be 
offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, 
Mr T would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement 
age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. On this basis, I think MWM should have advised Mr T to 
opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr T would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that MWM disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr T to transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MWMs advice. I say this because Mr T was likely an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MWM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if MWM had explained Mr T was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think MWM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. MWM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
As Ive said, Ive noted Mr Ts refusal to provided details that MWM needs to start the 
redress process. He needs to do this. MWM must then undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what MWM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr T accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented nearly all of Mr Ts retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order IFM to pay an additional £300 to Mr T.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman