DRN-3254270
The complaint
Miss B and Mr T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B and Mr T booked a trip abroad in February 2020. The trip was due to take place 
between 24 May and 31 May 2020. They bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
on 9 March 2020. The policy dates were between 22 May 2020 and 21 May 2021. The 
insurer was AXA.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. This advice remained in place at the time Miss B and Mr T were due to 
start their trip.
Miss B and Mr Ts flights were cancelled on 15 May 2020. They say they were happy to go 
on the trip anyway, but instead of flying they planned to go on a road trip to their intended 
destination. But due to the FCDO advice in place at the time of the trip, Miss B and Mr T 
cancelled the trip. They got a refund for their flights, but they made a claim to AXA for the 
non-refundable accommodation costs.
AXA declined the claim. It said that the reason for cancellation happened before the start 
date of the policy (22 May 2020)  the flights were cancelled and the FCDO advice was in 
place before cover on the policy started.
Miss B and Mr T dont think AXAs decision is fair. They say they booked the trip and bought 
the policy before the FCDO advice came into force. And the policy covers cancellation due 
to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he said that cancellation cover on 
the policy didnt start until the policy start date. And the policy terms said that claims will 
only be considered if the cause of the claim falls within the insurance period. So, as the 
reason for cancellation was the FCDO advice, and this advice had come into effect before 
the policy start date, the investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in declining 
the claim.
Miss B and Mr T didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss B and Mr Ts complaint.
Miss B and Mr Ts policy does cover them for cancellation due to the FCDO advising against 
all but essential travel. But this advice was already in place before the start date of their 
policy, and before Miss B and Mr T had cover for cancellation. 
Theres a general exclusion on the policy which says that Cover will be excluded under all 
sections other than claims arising from new FCO advice resulting in you not being able to 
travel The FCDO advice that was in place when Miss B and Mr Ts cancellation cover 
started, and when they cancelled their trip, wasnt new. 
Having considered the circumstances here, and the policy terms, I dont think the cause of 
the claim falls within the insurance period.
Additionally, Im also mindful that Miss B and Mr T had booked a flight for the trip which was 
cancelled before cover on the policy started. I do think its reasonable to consider that this 
also impacted Miss B and Mr Ts decision to cancel their trip. So, this further persuades me 
that the cause of the claim doesnt fall within the insurance period.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B and Mr T, but taking everything into account, I dont think AXA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss B and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman