DRN-3175752
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains about what Society of Lloyd's did following a claim it made 
on its commercial property insurance policy. P is represented by one of its directors, Mr J. 
All references to Lloyds include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2013 there was a fire at Ps business premises and a claim was made on the policy it held 
with Lloyds for material damage and business interruption. That claim was accepted by 
Lloyds and following investigations it was cash settled for a total of £260,000 in January 
2015. At the time Mr J signed an acceptance confirming payment of the settlement sum was 
made in full and final satisfaction of any and all claims the insured may have or may 
hereafter have against [the insurer] under the Policy in respect of the claim.
A complaint about the time taken and the sum offered was responded to by Lloyds in August 
2015. It acknowledged some delay and offered compensation for this. In relation to the 
settlement amount it said P would need to provide evidence to support its view this was 
unacceptably low for this to be reviewed. 
The claim was subsequently reopened to consider a claim for damage to goods being stored 
by P on behalf of a customer which wasnt included in the original settlement. A further 
complaint was raised by P in relation to the handling of this. In its response Lloyds noted Ps 
ongoing dissatisfaction with the January 2015 settlement and concern it was pressured into 
accepting this. It didnt agree that was the case and said no further evidence had been 
provided to dispute the settlement offer. And the claim from the customer had been settled 
by their own insurer. 
Mr J referred that complaint to our service. Our investigator was satisfied Lloyds had 
considered reports Mr J provided in relation to material damage and business interruption 
prior to settling Ps claim. He was also satisfied it had given reasons for its decision and 
explained why the full amount P claimed for wasnt being paid. He didnt think Lloyds had 
acted unfairly. But he said if Mr J had evidence of losses that hadnt already been 
considered and included within the accepted settlement he was free to approach Lloyds with 
this information. 
Mr J didnt ask for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman and that case closed in 
April 2019. Subsequently Mr J contacted Lloyds again and set out the elements of the 
material damage claim he thought had been under paid (based on the loss adjusters report 
hed now had sight of). He also disputed the calculation of the business interruption claim. 
He thought the total underpayment was around £83,000.
Lloyds said the settlement (including those elements) had been agreed between it and Ps 
loss assessor. And it noted wed previously concluded it hadnt acted unfairly in relation to 
this settlement. It didnt think there were grounds to increase the settlement offered. 
However, it said if P could provide supporting evidence in relation to the points it was now 
disputing it would appoint a new and independent loss adjuster to review them. 
Our investigator said wed already considered a complaint about the settlement agreed in 
January 2015 and so wouldnt look again at issues covered by that complaint. She 
considered whether the further claim for £83,000 involved a new issue not covered by the 
previous settlement but didnt think it did. She thought the request for that payment was 
linked to the evidence already considered as part of the settlement agreement. 
She didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in not agreeing to a further payment in 
response to the information Mr J provided. And she thought its offer to review the claim if Mr 
J did provide further evidence was fair.  
Mr J didnt agree. In summary he said:
The negotiations relating to the settlement had been made under false pretences and he 
thought were intended to produce greater savings for the insurer. At the time P was 
desperate for payment to be made and so had to accept this as no interim payment was 
offered. But no explanation was provided as to the breakdown of the settlement figure to 
either him or his loss assessor. He queried why P had been paid less than he believed it 
was entitled to in that agreement and didnt think this was explained in the loss adjusters 
report.
Mr J didnt accept wed already considered a complaint about the calculation of this 
settlement. He said the previous investigators view related to making a lump sum 
payment and not the actual settlement amount. And he thought that by accepting further 
evidence could be provided Lloyds had in any case accepted the settlement could be 
challenged.
He said Lloyds had changed position on what it would now need to look again at the 
complaint; initially it said it needed evidence to show the settlement offer was too low but 
now said it would only consider new evidence. Mr J argued that what he was required to 
provide was evidence that the settlement was too low. And he said hed provided 
evidence to show the settlement had been wrongly calculated and Lloyds hadnt 
provided a response to this. 
He said he was unable to provide all the evidence previously supplied because he no 
longer had access to all that documentation. He queried the need to provide this 
information when Lloyds had access to the loss adjusters report in relation to the claim. 
He thought if Lloyds didnt feel the loss adjuster had carried out a satisfactory 
investigation that was an issue for it to resolve rather than requiring P to repeat the 
claims process many years later. And he didnt think that it would be appropriate for an 
independent loss adjuster to provide an explanation for the underpayment.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate Mr J remains unhappy with the process leading up to the settlement agreement 
in January 2015. Hes explained his concerns about that and the reasons why P accepted 
that settlement. And he argues as part of the previous complaint we didnt comment on the 
settlement amount itself (only whether it was fair for this to be cash settled). 
However, I dont agree we havent considered those concerns. In particular I can see in his 
view on the previous complaint the investigator said as part of your complaint, you've said 
you don't believe that the insurer has paid your claim in full and has treated you unfairly. He 
went on to address this issue and said in relation to the loss adjusters report there are 
reasons given for why the full amount youd originally claimed for wasnt paid. For example, 
there were areas where the sum insured (the amount of cover you had under the policy 
terms) was less than what was being claimed for. 
He concluded In terms of your complaint, you had told me you were unhappy the business 
had acted unfairly as they hadnt paid your claim in full. But from what Ive seen, they 
considered your claim and negotiated the settlement with your loss assessor. And theyve 
provided the reasons why. So its on this basis that I cant see that they acted unfairly. 
Its clear to me from that the investigator did consider Ps complaint that the settlement was 
too low and didnt restrict his consideration to whether it was appropriate for this to be cash 
settled. If Mr J was unhappy with that view or thought issues of concern to him hadnt been 
considered he could have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. But he 
didnt do so and that complaint closed around two and half years ago. Im not considering as 
part of this complaint matters weve previously looked at.  
However, I appreciate the investigator did also say Lloyds had confirmed that they would be 
happy to consider further payments, should you provide evidence that this payment didn't 
cover your losses. And so what Im considering in this decision is whether Lloyds did 
anything wrong once Mr J got back in touch with it in May 2019 and provided comments 
which he believed showed P had been underpaid.
In considering that I dont think its either practical or necessary for me to respond to each 
individual point of concern raised by Mr J. Instead Ive sought to focus on what, in my view, 
are the key issues, focussing on the points raised by Mr J in his responses to the 
investigators view and thinking in particular about where any error by Lloyds is likely to have 
had an impact on P which would warrant a remedy.
In relation to that I can see theres been some discussion as to what Lloyds was offering to 
consider and what would constitute new evidence. Mr J argues Lloyds has changed position 
and initially it said it needed evidence to show the settlement offer was too low but now said 
it would only consider new evidence. But I can see in November 2020 it said in order for the 
claim to be reassessed, we therefore request that you re-present the above noted heads of 
claim, including all supporting evidence, whereupon we will appoint a new and independent 
loss adjuster to review the settlements made.
So I think Lloyds has agreed to consider not only issues that werent covered by the original 
settlement but also evidence which shows that settlement was too low (because, for 
example, it was based on inaccurate information).  However, Lloyds position is that the 
appropriate way forward would be for P to submit evidence relating to the heads of claim that 
it felt had been inaccurately calculated and for this to then be reviewed by an independent 
loss adjuster. Mr J argues that isnt appropriate because he no longer has access to all of the evidence 
previously supplied and doesnt think it necessary in any case to supply it again. He thought 
it should be for Lloyds to decide if the loss adjuster had carried out a satisfactory 
investigation. However, Lloyds has said it is satisfied the claim was correctly settled in line 
with the evidence presented at the time. As the previous investigator explained that was on 
the basis of a loss adjusters report that he found had explained the rationale for the 
conclusions it reached. And that settlement was accepted by P at the time.
So I dont think it is for Lloyds to show the settlement was correct. I think it has reasonable 
grounds for thinking it is. Rather I think the onus is on P to now demonstrate why a 
settlement it accepted in 2015 was based on inaccurate information. And I think its 
reasonable Lloyds offered to refer the matter to an independent loss adjuster if P was able to 
provide evidence to supports its claims. I think it would then be for that loss adjuster to 
consider whether there were grounds for any further payments to be made to P. 
Nor do I feel it was unreasonable of Lloyds to request P evidence its claims before making 
any referral. I appreciate the loss adjusters reports are available but Lloyds has explained 
it no longer has access to the original copies of the claim as presented which I think is 
understandable given the time that has passed since the matter was originally considered. 
And I think that information would be relevant to the issues P is now raising. Of course, I 
appreciate the passage of time may also create difficulties for P in providing this information 
itself, but I dont think thats because of anything Lloyds got wrong.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds should have made a referral based on the 
information P has provided to date. But, on balance, I dont think it should. Lloyds says the 
information supplied to date is too limited to establish whether or not there are any issues 
with the calculation of the previous settlement. Ive reviewed the information Mr J sent and I 
think thats a reasonable stance to take. I appreciate Mr J has provided some supporting 
information in relation to the issues hes raising but that doesnt include, for example, full 
business accounts from the relevant period or other evidence in support of his position. And 
as Lloyds has explained it no longer has access to the original claim documentation itself.  
I can see Lloyds has offered to discuss with Mr J what would be required in order for the 
matter to be referred to an independent loss adjuster. I think thats fair. Of course its for Mr J 
to decide whether to take up that offer but it does seem to me to provide a way of moving 
forward with the issues he wants to be considered. And if Mr J doesnt have full information 
available it gives him an opportunity to discuss with Lloyds whether there are alternative 
pieces of evidence he could provide. 
But in summary, while I understand the points Mr J has made about why P accepted the 
settlement in 2015 it did so and the acceptance confirmed this was in full and final 
satisfaction of any and all claims the insured may have or may hereafter have against [the 
insurer] under the Policy in respect of the claim. I think Lloyds could have sought to rely on 
that acceptance when considering any further information Mr J then provided. But it hasnt 
done that and has offered to refer matters to an independent loss adjuster if P can evidence 
the claims its making. I think thats fair. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask P to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman