DRN-1657591
The complaint
 Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2000 
What happened
 On 28 July 2000, Mr P applied for his credit card by completing an application form that had 
been sent to him by post. When Mr P filled out that application form, he didnt select the PPI 
policy. Barclays says the cover was sold by telephone on 11 August 2000. Barclays said Mr 
P would have had his credit card at that point as his account had been opened on 3 August 
2000. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said it wouldnt have been 
made clear to Mr P that he could have refused the cover if he wanted to. 
Barclays said that as Mr P had not selected PPI in his initial application form, he would have 
known it was optional. It contended that although Mr P had not selected PPI initially, he most 
likely changed his mind after its representative explained the costs and benefits to him. 
As Barclays does not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The PPI policy was sold on the telephone. I dont have a call recording, which isnt surprising 
given the cover was sold more than 20 years ago. I havent been provided with a call script 
either. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened during this sale, Ive looked at 
what we know about how Barclays policies were sold at that time. 
When Barclays sold the policy, it had to make it clear that Mr P had a choice about whether 
to buy the cover. Mr P says that it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional. 
We know that at the relevant time, Barclays undertook activation calls. As the call between 
Mr P and Barclays took place shortly after the account was opened, it seems most likely to 
me that the call between the parties would have been an activation call. 
As I said above, I appreciate I dont have a call recording or a sales script. However, from 
what we know about how these policies were sold, I think its unlikely that Mr P would have 
been told his card was active until after the telephone adviser had the opportunity to sell PPI 
to him. So whilst Mr P may well have had the credit card in his possession, he probably 
wouldnt have known his account was active before the PPI was sold. 
Barclays says that Mr P most likely changed his mind about the PPI cover once he heard 
about its benefits. But Mr P would have already had some idea about the cover from the 
application form in that he would have known he could claim if he became unwell or if he lost 
his job. I havent been made aware of any changes in Mr Ps circumstances from when he 
completed the application form to when the PPI was sold. I can see from the credit card 
application form that Mr P had requested a balance transfer, so I think he would have been 
keen for his application to proceed during that telephone call. 
Putting all of that together, Mr P told us that he wasnt told he had a choice when PPI was 
sold. And as he may well not have been aware his account was active until after the PPI 
sale, I agree with our adjudicator that it most likely wasnt made clear to Mr P that he could 
refuse this policy if he wanted to and that refusing cover would have no bearing on his credit 
card application. 
So Ive upheld this complaint and Barclays will need to take action to put things right. I 
understand Mr P made a successful PPI claim in or around 2007. I can also see that 
Barclays refunded some of the PPI to Mr P because it didnt tell him about a high level of 
commission it received. It will be able to deduct both of those amounts when it is working out 
how much compensation is now due to Mr P. 
Putting things right
 Barclays must put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy has been cancelled. If I am wrong on that point, it must be cancelled 
now. Barclays must then undertake the following steps: 
a) Barclays should find out how much Mr P would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as 
any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr P owes and 
what he would have owed. 
b) If  when Barclays works out what Mr P would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr P paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr P would have owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
c) Barclays should tell Mr P what its done to work out (a) and (b).
 
d) In making its calculation Barclays may deduct any refund it has already made in 
relation to commission or profit share. As Mr P made a successful claim under the 
PPI policy, Barclays can also take off what he got for the claim from the amount it 
owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to put 
things right as set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman