DRN-3314020
The complaint
Mr L complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) have turned down his 
claim unfairly on the Parts and Garage Cover element of his roadside assistance policy.
Other parties have also been involved but as Acromas are the underwriters of this policy, I 
will refer to all parties as Acromas. 
Background
In January 2021, Mr L called Acromas, requesting assistance under his breakdown policy. 
As Mr L was at home at the time, he was informed he would need to upgrade to homestart 
membership to be eligible for further help. Mr L declined to upgrade. 
Later in the day, Mr L contacted Acromas again via their app, while away from the home and 
requested assistance. On this occasion, Mr L received advice from a patrol person but they 
advised a visit was not necessary and that he could take the car to a garage. He was 
provided with a reference number referring to his Parts and Garage cover he holds 
alongside the breakdown cover. 
A few days later, Mr L tried to claim via his Parts and Garage cover but Acromas declined to 
pay. They stated that Mr L had initially made contact from his home address and had 
declined to upgrade to homestart and had then been driving his vehicle with a known fault. 
Acromas said he therefore wasnt eligible to use his Parts and Garage cover. Acromas also 
informed Mr L that as he didnt have a valid MOT at the time this also invalidates his policy 
with them.
Mr L was unhappy with this so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint but he thought that Acromas had declined Mr Ls claim fairly based on the 
circumstances and the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr L remained unhappy so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr L feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything Mr L has said, 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ive looked at the policy documents for the Parts and Garage cover. It says:
The cover set out in the policy is designed to run alongside your AA membership, to cover 
the cost for parts, which require replacing or repairing, following a breakdown attended by 
the AA. 
I therefore agree that to be eligible for the Parts and Garage cover, Mr L needed to be 
eligible for a patrol person to attend.
Mr L first contacted Acromas from home, requesting assistance. Ive listened to this call and 
am aware that the call handler explained that Mr L needed to upgrade to homestart to be 
able to receive assistance. She also explained that to use the Parts and Garage cover, Mr L 
needed to have a patrol person attend the vehicle first. Mr L declined to add homestart to the 
policy and said he would drive away from home and call back. The call handler explained if 
he did this, it may invalidate his claim as he would be driving the vehicle with a known fault. I 
think the call handler was clear here in the risks Mr L may face with his claim if he was to do 
as he suggested. 
Later the same day, away from home, Mr L contacted Acromas again via their app and 
spoke to a technician as a result. Having listened to the call, I can understand why Mr L had 
believed his Parts and Garage claim would be successful. However, the technician Mr L had 
spoken to, was not aware of the earlier call Mr L had made, or that his original call had been 
made from home without a homestart policy. However, Mr L had already been informed that 
he needed to upgrade his policy to ultilise the Parts and Garage cover and that driving with a 
known fault may invalidate the claim so I think Mr L should have been aware despite the 
later call with a technician.  
Mr L has suggested that the car was still drivable and feels that homestart wasnt required. 
However, Acromas has explained that this is not how the policy works. They have said that 
Home Start cover relates to any breakdown incident reported from a customers home or 
within  miles of their home address regardless of whether the car is driveable or not. They 
also said that as the car continued to be driven, it could have resulted in further damage. 
The Parts and Garage policy document also states the definition of a breakdown is:  
Breakdown: A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure: and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership: and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely: 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed
or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, commenced
As Mr L was at home when he first made contact with a known fault and didnt have 
homestart, I think it was fair for Acromas to refuse to process his request without him 
upgrading. 
Acromas have also said that the policy was invalidated by the fact that Mr L didnt have a 
road legal car at the time, as it had failed its MOT with dangerous defects. Mr L disagreed 
but wasnt able to provide evidence that he did have a valid MOT at the time. There is 
obviously conflicting information here, however, as I have already concluded that Acromas 
were fair in turning down the claim, as Mr L declined to upgrade to a homestart policy, I dont 
think I need to investigate this point any further. 
While I understand why Mr L is unhappy, based on the reasons above, Im satisfied that 
Acromas have acted fairly and reasonably in turning down the claim under the policy terms.  My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman