DRN-3488173
The complaint
Ms C says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Novaloans provided to Ms C in March 2021. The 
loan was for £300 and was to be repaid in four monthly instalments, the highest being 
£125.50. Ms C was made unemployed. She told Novaloans of her financial difficulties and a 
repayment plan was agreed. When Ms C still struggled financially, Novaloans made her an 
offer to repay just the principal, subject to conditions. 
Our Adjudicator didnt recommend that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. Ms C disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Ms C said she had notices on 
her credit file and numerous defaults that Novaloans would have seen and so it shouldnt 
have lent to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Ms Cs financial and other difficulties. She has told us that she is 
now receiving assistance and so I hope her situation will further improve. Weve set out our 
general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Novaloans was required to establish 
whether Ms C could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
Novaloans asked Ms C for information about her income and outgoings and it carried out a 
credit check. Ms C said her monthly income was £1,548 and her monthly outgoings totalled 
£550. This left her with a disposable income of £998 to meet her repayments of £125.50. So 
it looked as though Ms C had sufficient disposable income to sustainably repay her loan. 
Novaloans credit check showed that Ms C had two defaults and two late payments on her 
record. I think these werent sufficient to prevent Novaloans from lending to Ms C. She had 
no active short-term loans, and none opened in the past six months. So, from what 
Novaloans could see, I dont think there was anything that should have alerted it to make 
further checks before lending to Ms C. 
I accept that Ms Cs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Novaloans obtained. And Ms Cs actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Novaloans could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Ms C, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Ms C. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Novaloans needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Novaloans carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Ms Cs actual financial 
position. 
Novaloans relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Ms Cs declared income and Ms C only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
When a consumer tells a business about her financial difficulties, as Ms C did, we expect it 
to take a sympathetic and positive approach to their situation. I can see that Novaloans 
offered affordable repayment plans for Ms C. And it offered to waive the interest payable on 
repayment of the principal of the loan, subject to Ms C providing evidence to validate her 
situation. But Ms C declined to provide some information as she thought it was intrusive. But 
I think its for Ms C to decide whether to provide this further information if she wants 
Novaloans to reconsider its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman