DRN-3978608
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (HGSL) declining her claim under 
her Accidental Damage and Breakdown Plan.
What happened
In December 2021 Ms P took out Accidental Damage and Breakdown cover with HGSL for 
GHD straighteners shed acquired for her daughters birthday. But in April 2022 whilst away 
Ms Ps hotel caught fire and the straighteners were damaged. She made a claim against her 
insurance policy, but this was declined as HGSL said the policy didnt cover damage caused 
by fire. Ms P complained to HGSL
HGSL said that the policy had a specific exclusion term about fire damage and this term had 
been applied to her claim. Ms P didnt agree  as she said  the fire had been a sudden and 
unforeseen event and this term was covered under the policy. HGSL didnt respond, so    
Ms P referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator couldnt access HGSLs business file. But Ms P had provided the policy 
schedule,  terms and conditions. He said that HGSL had applied the exclusion term fairly.
Ms P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Ms P, but having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
While I empathise with the position Ms P finds herself in, for me to say HGSL must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see
that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions. Under Section Three , what is covered, the 
policy says:
The accidental damage must be entirely due to a sudden and unforeseen event.
Its not in dispute that the damage to the straighteners was accidental, sudden and 
unforeseen. But the policy doesnt cover every sort of damage that might happen even if its
accidental. Insurers write their policies to cover different risks and will set out not only whats 
covered but also what isnt. Each term which explains whats not covered is called an 
exclusion. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether I think the exclusion term 
used by HGSL in declining Ms Ps claim was applied fairly.
Under Section Four of the policy  what is not covered it says:
Due to fire, flood, lightening, storm, tempest, explosion, impact, aircraft or other aerial 
device or article dropped from, theft or attempted theft, or any other external source.
And its this exclusion term that HGSL has applied when declining Ms Ps claim.
The policy schedule and policy terms and conditions were sent to us by Ms P so Im satisfied 
she was able to consider the terms and conditions of the policy that she accepted.
Ive also considered whether the exclusions in the terms and condition were clear and not 
mis-leading. And I think they are. Ms P has referred to Section Three which shows what is 
covered. And as outlined above the exclusions were clearly covered under Section Four, 
what is not covered. So, I dont think the policy is misleading or the conditions hidden away. 
The accidental damage caused to Ms Ps daughters straighteners was a direct result of a 
fire at her hotel. And I think HGSL has fairly applied the exclusion term of her Accidental 
Damage and Breakdown Plan when declining her claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman