DRN-2279765
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with BUPA Insurance Company Limiteds decision not to pay her claim 
and to add a special condition to her policy.
Mrs S brings her complaint through a representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her personally.
What happened
Mrs S had private medical insurance with BUPA. She joined it through a broker. Ive not 
considered the brokers actions as part of this complaint as shes complaining about the 
insurers actions here. 
Mrs S has ischaemic heart disease and had a stent fitted to help alleviate her symptoms in 
2011. She began to experience shortness of breath and tightening around her chest area in 
September 2019 and so she spoke to her GP and was referred to a specialist.
Mrs S saw the specialist and diagnostic tests were completed. The result of which was that 
she needed to be urgently treated for an angiography preceding angioplasty/stent and so the 
procedure was completed by the specialist the next day. This forms the basis of her claim 
because BUPA wont pay for the treatment  meaning Mrs S owes the private hospital 
around £12,500. Mrs S said that BUPA unfairly changed the terms of her policy when it 
discovered she had a stent fitted almost 10 years prior.
BUPA said it added a special condition to the policy excluding cover for anything related to 
ischaemic heart disease. It said that had it known Mrs S suffered with this condition it would 
have applied the restriction from the date the policy started. BUPA accepted that Mrs S 
didnt deliberately attempt to mislead it to gain insurance, rather the non-disclosure was a 
careless mistake. It agreed to cover the costs pertaining to diagnosis, which was around 
£2,700. But said it would not cover any costs related to the treatment she had. 
  
Our investigator agreed with BUPA. She said that Mrs S should have told it that she was still 
receiving treatment for her condition. She said the stent that was fitted in 2011 was 
effectively still treating the ischaemic heart disease because without it, her condition would 
likely deteriorate. Our investigator also acknowledged that Mrs S was taking regular 
medication for her heart disease and so this should have been disclosed too.
Mrs S didnt agree. She made several arguments which Ive summarised below, she said;
The question asked by BUPA when she initially took the policy only asked her to 
share her medical history over the last five years. And, that because she took the 
policy out in 2017, the stent she had fitted didnt fall within the declaration window;
Its unreasonable to expect that she answer yes to the question posed by the insurer 
when the treatment Mrs S had was so long ago and shes been asymptomatic since 
then and;
Her policy documents were not received in good time and when they were, it was 
past the 14-day cooling period. Mrs S theorised that had she told BUPA about her 
medical condition and it had applied the special condition from the outset, she would 
not have been able to revert to her original insurer;
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all arguments Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive 
decided this because I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly by adding the special condition in 
the way that it has. I also think that BUPA made it clear to Mrs S that it would cover the cost 
of any diagnostic tests that were needed to determine the problems she experienced, but not 
any treatment needed that was related to her ischaemic heart disease condition. And so, 
BUPA doesnt have to take any further action here. Ill explain why.
BUPAs policy terms say that it wont offer cover for any pre-existing conditions. And 
because Mrs S suffers with ischaemic heart disease prior to joining, this product was never 
going to offer her cover for any medical conditions she had previously.
Im satisfied ischaemic heart disease is a pre-existing condition and that Mrs S ought to told 
BUPA about it from the outset. Ive considered her arguments about why she chose not to, 
and I can see the logic in some of what shes said. She was asymptomatic for the best part 
of nine years so it didnt occur to her that she needed to share this with BUPA. There also 
appears to be some confusion about what questions were initially asked by BUPA prior to 
her joining the scheme. 
Mrs S sourced the policy through a broker and so its difficult for me to say with any degree 
of certainty what was said at that time. But Mrs S said she discussed her ischaemic heart 
disease with the broker and was told that because this was more than five years ago, it does 
not need to be shared with BUPA. So, if that were the case, then I can see why she may not 
have thought it relevant. But BUPA also sent Mrs S her membership certificate shortly after 
she joined and within it BUPA said the following about pre-existing conditions;
We list the Pre-existing Conditions you told us about, for which we do not cover you or one 
of your Dependants, as Special Conditions in Section four of this Certificate below.
A Pre-existing Condition is a disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before 
your start date: 
.. you have received medication, advice or Treatment, or you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition was diagnosed or not. In addition, if you or a Dependant have any 
other Pre-existing Condition you have not told us about that will not be covered
After Mrs S had her original stent fitted, she began taking daily medication and so she 
should have told BUPA about that given the clear question it asked above. I take on board 
her comments that this was only aspirin and that this is used to treat relatively minor 
problems. But its also been used to help alleviate and prevent further complications with 
heart disease. And Im persuaded that this was the reason she was prescribed the medicine 
and continues to take it daily. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ss medical records which suggest she was also prescribed 
additional medication known as statins. This group of medicines are used to help manage 
heart problems. I noted she was prescribed rosuvastatin, docosahexaenoic and eicosapentaenoic  all of which can help alleviate and even prevent further complications 
caused by heart disease. Mrs S said that she only takes aspirin  and that may well be the 
case  but Im satisfied she was prescribed additional medicine to help manage her heart 
condition. 
And so, Mrs S should have told BUPA she takes medication daily to help manage her 
ischaemic heart disease.  
I note Mrs S and her doctors comments that the aspirin was prescribed as a precautionary 
measure  to protect against further complications. But it doesnt persuade me that Mrs S 
should not have disclosed this when asked by BUPA. I say that because, sadly, there is no 
cure for heart disease. And so, all treatments are about managing the on-going condition 
rather than treating it. I understand there was some confusion about whether Mrs S was 
asked to give details about her medical history over the last five or seven years. But I dont 
think this is relevant to my final decision for the reasons Ive already explained. 
I think she should have told BUPA she took daily medication when it asked her shortly after 
she opted for the policy. Had this happened, BUPA would have applied the special condition 
much sooner. Mrs S would then have been able to decide whether the product was right for 
her.
Because BUPA didnt find out about Mrs Ss heart disease until much later, in September 
2019, it was unable to add the special condition until then. I dont think it was added unfairly.
The product Mrs S had was medically underwritten which means she would not have been 
offered cover for any pre-existing conditions. Thats an important point because if Mrs S 
wanted her pre-existing conditions covered, then this policy was never going to give her that. 
Therefore, I think BUPA was acting fairly when it told her that it would not pay for her 
treatment  because it was related to her pre-existing condition. BUPAs terms say;
we do not pay for treatment for any specialist conditions detailed on your membership 
certificate, or any pre-existing conditions 
So, given this was retrospectively added to her membership certificate and it was a pre-
existing condition, I think BUPA applied its term fairly.
I think its worth recognising that BUPA was clear about this in a call it had with Mrs S at the 
time. Having just completed the stress tests with the cardiologist, the advisor explained that 
BUPA would cover the cost of the diagnostic tests  including the stress tests. But not any 
costs related to treatment needed related to the ischaemic heart disease. 
Mrs S needed a new stent fitted and she went ahead with this at the private hospital the 
following day. I think she knew and accepted the risks associated with this decision as BUPA 
had already told her that it would not cover this type of cost. I noted the cardiologists letter 
explained this was urgent treatment given the result of the diagnostic test showed there was 
critical disease in one vessel.  
But Im still not persuaded that BUPA should have to pay for this treatment for the reasons 
Ive already explained. Further, private medical insurance policies arent designed to be used 
in this way. Generally, they look to cover costs pertaining to scheduled in or out patient 
treatment. I noted BUPAs comments at the time, and it recommended she go to the nearest 
accident and emergency department  which I thought was a fair and reasonable response.  
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman