DRN-1496064
 
The complaint
Mr K complained about repeated questioning by Coventry Building Society about money he 
was depositing in his account. He thought Coventry was discriminating against him because 
of his race.
What happened
Mr K was very unhappy about being repeatedly asked by Coventry about the money he was 
depositing in his account. He was told he needed to provide Coventry with receipts. He 
thought Coventry was asking more questions than it would if he had a different skin colour.
Coventry wrote in response to Mr Ks complaints. It said that it had asked Mr K for ID 
because hed had a number of changes of address in quick succession. It said that because 
of this, account takeover was a cause for concern. It had asked him for ID because it wanted 
to be sure it was really Mr K using the account. 
Coventry wrote again, when Mr K complained about the questions he was being asked when 
he paid money into his account. Coventry said it had to review customer accounts in line 
with legal and regulatory obligations. It said it can ask for additional information in relation to 
cash deposits, and thats part of its standard procedure. It was sorry this had upset Mr K, but 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong by asking for this extra information. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Coventry has to adhere 
to regulations which might mean it has to ask where money being paid into an account 
comes from. Our investigator said he could understand that being asked the same question 
repeatedly does feel like discrimination. But our investigator felt Coventry was trying to 
ensure it met the requirements of the regulations. 
Our investigator said hed asked Coventry if it could record notes to say that Mr K had 
already been asked where his funds came from. Coventry couldnt do that. Our investigator 
said that meant that the customer service staff Mr K would speak to in branch didnt know if 
someone had previously discussed Mr Ks account with him. Our investigator appreciated 
that the repeated questioning was frustrating for Mr K. But he said the way Mr K was using 
his account wasnt typical of how Coventrys account holders usually use these accounts. 
Coventry didnt expect its customers to make that number of withdrawals. 
Our investigator said that Coventry had explained to Mr K that these questions might keep 
being asked. He had made 61 deposits and 63 withdrawals in a little over 14 months. Our 
investigator thought that was why Coventry was questioning Mr K. Our investigator didnt 
think Coventry was discriminating against him.
Mr K didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has told us that he felt he was discriminated against by Coventry. Ive thought very 
carefully about what hes said. Ill explain why I dont think I can find that he was 
discriminated against. But before I do that, Ill explain how Ive thought about that.
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act. The Act applies to Coventry, and its something Ive taken into account in how 
Ive thought about this case. I note, however, that Mr K hasnt referred to the Equality Act or 
asked me to make a specific finding about it  and, while I take it into account, making 
findings on matters of law is something a court is better placed to do than I am.
However, I think theres a broader meaning of discrimination too beyond the technical legal 
definition  its that Mr K feels he was treated unfairly, and that unfair treatment was because 
of who he is rather than any more justifiable reason. Ive looked at this case with that 
broader meaning very much in mind to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Coventry has shown us that Mr K changed his address four times in less than a year. I 
understand why this happened, Mr K has told us about the personal circumstances which 
led to this. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Coventry to ask Mr K for ID in 
these circumstances. Thats because I think the reason Coventry was asking for this 
information was to check that Mr Ks account hadnt been taken over by a fraudster. 
Mr K was upset that Coventry kept asking him about where he got the money hes 
depositing in his account. Like our investigator, I can understand how this is frustrating for Mr 
K. I can also well understand why he would express concerns about discrimination, as it 
seems unlikely that other customers in the branch were asked the same questions. But 
Coventry has shown us how Mr K was using his account, and how different that is to most of 
its customers. When something unusual happens with an account, that can trigger the duties 
that banks and building societies have to check that the accounts being used lawfully. And 
that means its likely to ask questions. 
Mr K said that if Coventry suspected something, it should call the police. But I dont think that 
would be an appropriate thing for Coventry to do. Something unusual happened, so 
Coventry asked Mr K about the use of his account. And he provided an explanation. I think 
thats a reasonable response for Coventry to make. And although I know that repeated 
questioning was frustrating for Mr K, I think Coventrys duty to keep checking on the account 
would continue to be triggered while Mr K was continuing to make more frequent use of the 
deposit and withdrawal facilities on this account than most of Coventrys other customers. 
Thats why I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Coventry to ask questions about 
how Mr K was using his account. 
For those reasons, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman