DRN-3384039
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he says he received from Logic Investments Ltd to switch
his personal pension plans to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 March 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to uphold the complaint 
were set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant parts of it here, and it forms part of 
this final decision.
Mr W says he was approached in 2016 by a representative of Mayfair Capital and offered a
free review of his pension. At the time, Mayfair Capital was an appointed representative of
Logic and is therefore as principal, is responsible for the actions of Mayfair Capital. So for
ease I will refer to Logic from now on.
Mr W had two personal pension plans, both with a provider Ill refer to as A. These pensions
were subsequently moved to a SIPP with another provider, B. His previous provider
confirmed this in a letter to Mr W dated 23 November 2016. Logic, through its appointed
representative Mayfair, then advised him in connection with the SIPP investments.
Mr W considers the SIPP was mis-sold and says that Logic advised him to move his pension
to a SIPP. He wants Logic to put him into the position he would now be in if he hadnt
arranged the SIPP.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. From the available evidence she
wasnt persuaded that, as had been asserted by Logic, the SIPP transfer was an execution
only transaction. And despite Logics records, the investigator concluded Mr W was a
cautious investor with a low capacity for loss. She didnt think it was suitable for Mr W to take
high risk with his pension and so wasnt persuaded the SIPP investments Logic advised
Mr W to make were appropriate for his attitude to risk.
To put things right, the investigator said Logic should pay into Mr Ws pension plan the
difference between the notional value of his investments if theyd remained invested as they
had with A and the actual value of investments. She also provided an alternative 
methodology if it wasnt possible to obtain a notional value. The investigator said Logic
should also pay £300 to Mr W for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr W agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Logic didnt. It said it hadnt given Mr W
advice in connection with his pension transfer or arranging the pension switch. Logic also
said Mr W had signed a Know Your Client form that said he had a good level of experience
and investment knowledge and a high attitude to risk. It disputed that Mr W was a cautious
investor, and said that the investments made werent unsuitable for Mr W.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them for doing so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Ive seen evidence to show Mr Ws SIPP application was received by the SIPP provider in
October 2016. Bs New SIPP Checklist records Mayfair Capital Ltd as Mr Ws independent
financial adviser and the firm is also named on the electronic data sheet supplied to the
provider.
Logic seems to suggest it didnt have any contact with Mr W before his SIPP application was
submitted and it is adamant that no advice was provided. Logic has also provided a letter
that Mr W signed dated 13 January 2017, which suggests it was acting on an execution
only basis. But this was signed several weeks after Mr W had made his SIPP application.
And I think its worth noting that, in the application form, Mr W ticked the boxes requesting
both an execution only and advisory service. Logic has said that an execution only document
was sent to Mr W to remind him that this was the service hed agreed and that he could seek
financial advice, but I think it would have been good practice to understand why Mr W had
ticked both boxes. I would suggest that its unusual for someone who is confident that they
dont need advice to have indicated that they might. And I cant find anything which explains
why the advisory part of Mr Ws request wasnt explored and discounted.
Regardless, from what Ive seen I think at minimum Logic did help to arrange the SIPP. For
example, Ive seen that B provided confirmation that Mr Ws application was received in an
email to Logic on 24 October 2016. And another email was sent to Logic on 28 November
2016 letting it know that Mr Ws pension transfers had been received. Since Logic arranged 
the SIPP, I still need to consider whether there was anything about the application that
shouldve caused Logic to question whether it was appropriate for Mr W to proceed with the
SIPP.
The industry regulator, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out requirements on the
firms it regulates in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 10.2 requires a
business to carry out an appropriateness assessment, by asking questions about the
customers experience and knowledge of the product they plan to invest in. This is to
determine whether the customer understands the risks involved. I havent seen anything to
suggest that Logic made those sorts of enquiries with Mr W.
And even if I were to accept that Logic provided Mr W with an execution only service, it still
doesnt necessarily follow that it was appropriate for it to arrange the SIPP. If it knew Mr Whadnt taken financial advice, it had an obligation under COBS 2.1.1 to act in his best
interests. Im not persuaded it did so in this instance.
Logic says that by signing its trading account application (which its referred to as a Know
Your Customer document) dated 5 December 2016, Mr W agreed to the statements in that
application about his experience of investments and attitude to risk. I accept that the
application suggests Mr W was a fairly regular trader in collective investments, major shares,
AIM shares and gilts and bonds. It also indicates Mr W was willing to expose up to 25% of
his SIPP to high risk or speculative investments, and that he preferred an Adventurous
SIPP portfolio model. But I note that the application appears to have been filled out on a
computer and given to Mr W to sign. I havent seen any evidence of a meeting or discussion
with Mr W where he provided the information that ended up on the form. And such meetings
are usually the forum in which to address potential anomalies in the information provided,
which I address further below. Ive also taken account of Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
He was 53 years of age, working as a self-employed painter and decorator earning
approximately £23,000 a year. He had a mortgage and £2,000 in savings. He had no other
investments, except for the personal pensions being transferred worth around £81,000.
Taking all of this into account, on balance I think it wouldve been reasonable for Logic to
question whether the information on the application form was an accurate reflection of
Mr Ws investment experience or his attitude to risk. From what Ive seen of his
circumstances at the time, I think its unlikely Mr W wouldve taken the initiative to transfer
his only pension provision to a SIPP without some sort of prompt from a third party. And I
think this shouldve been apparent to Logic too.
Logic says that Mr W was several years away from retirement and wanted to maximise the
capital return on his personal pension investments. I note Logics points, but Im not
persuaded they mean Mr Ws attitude to risk was high, or that this should have been
accepted without question in the presence of other factors which might suggest otherwise.
For example, that Mr W had no other retirement provision or substantial savings, coupled
with his income and employment status leave me unable to conclude that he was either
prepared, or in a position, to take a high level of investment risk with his pension. And
Mr Ws recorded investment experience was quite limited, certainly in terms of the value of
investments which he had apparently exposed to investment in shares.
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Logic to take an overall view of Mr Ws circumstances
and pension provision. And had it done so, I dont consider it wouldve been reasonable for
the business to accept without further investigation that he was a high-risk investor. In light
of Mr Ws overall circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Logic to realise that
the information in his application form may not have been an accurate representation of his
attitude to risk. So I consider it wouldve been reasonable for Logic to carry out further
checks with Mr W to make sure the SIPP was suitable for him  which would likely have 
revealed the true nature of his investment experience, attitude to risk and financial situation.
Im not persuaded that it did that. If Logic had made further enquiries with Mr W, I think its
unlikely that it could reasonably have concluded that the transfer of his personal pension
provision to the SIPP was in his best interests.
So I consider the performance of Mr Ws pension should be measured against how it
wouldve performed if it had remained invested in his previous pension plans. If Mr Ws
pension has suffered a loss, Logic should pay an amount representing that loss into Mr Ws
pension. It should also pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused - specifically the worry
that all of his pension provision has been exposed to high risk investments.
Taking all the above into account, I said my provisional decision was the complaint should 
be upheld and I explained how Logic should put things right. I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
Logic responded that it accepted as the principal firm that it had regulatory responsibility 
for the account of Mr [W] until 3rd April 2017 and it accepted responsibility for any losses that 
Mr [W] may have suffered up until this date. But it said it didnt accept that the SIPP 
wrapper is the issue here. It is what was invested in within that wrapper.
And so it thought I was wrong, and incorrect in law, to suggest it was responsible for any 
losses that occurred after Mayfair Capital ceased to be its appointed representative and 
became authorised in its own right on 3 April 2017. Logic said it didnt have access to Mr Ws 
account details following this time as the account documentation proves he was always a 
client of Mayfair and not Logic. From 3rd April 2017 Logic did not have permission from Mr W 
to provide him with investment advice and execute transactions on his account.
Nothing further was received from Mr W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings, Logic noted what the regulator has said when an 
appointed representative moves to be authorised:
Your principal will become responsible for any regulated business you did while you were 
its appointed representative. You will need to agree with your principal how they can have 
direct access to your client files in case of a client complaint.
If you want to carry on dealing with your existing customers you should check that your 
agreement with your principal allows you to do this.
If you become directly authorised by us you will become responsible for, among other 
things:
having professional indemnity insurance
compliance, and
the liabilities of your business
You will need to ensure you have systems in place to cope with these obligations.
I understand the argument Logic is making here, but as far as I am aware, there are no 
complaint issues that arise after 3 April 2017 other than in respect of the original sale of the 
SIPP and selection of the adventurous investment portfolio. Ive only seen a client 
agreement from when Mayfair was acting as the appointed representative of Logic and its 
not clear what, if any further role Mayfair has acted in regard to Mr Ws SIPP. Regardless, I 
remain satisfied that Mr W should not have been sold the SIPP in the first place. 
Accordingly, my view is that Logic remains responsible for the financial consequences of that 
sale, regardless of whether it was removed as the adviser when Mayfair became 
independently authorised on 3 April 2017. I appreciate that Logic says it wasnt privy to any 
information after this date and therefore cant be held responsible for advice given since 
then. But the complaint, as far as I can see, is based on the suitability of the switch to the 
SIPP and the advice to invest in high-risk investments; not any subsequent advice given 
later on. And as noted above, after an appointed representative is authorised, the principal becomes responsible for any regulated business the appointed representative conducted 
while it was an appointed representative.
And while a court might conclude that Mr Ws loss has not flowed directly from the switch to 
the SIPP, in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position a court might take. 
It may be there has been a break in the chain of causation. That might mean it would not 
be fair to say that all of the losses suffered flowed from the sale of the SIPP. That will 
depend on the particular circumstances of the case. For example, no liability will arise for an 
adviser who has given suitable advice; even if fraud later takes place, but the position is 
different where the consumer would not have been in the investment in the first place without 
the unsuitable advice (or the absence of advice that should have been given). In that 
situation, it may be fair to assess compensation on our usual basis. I consider this to be the 
case for Mr W. 
This is notwithstanding any arguments about a break in the chain of causation. I am 
satisfied that Mr W would not have moved his pensions if Logic had done what it should 
have when the switch occurred in 2016. As such, I consider it fair and reasonable to hold 
Logic responsible for the whole of the loss suffered by Mr W. I am not asking Logic to 
account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings; I am satisfied that but for 
those failings Mr W wouldnt have lost out as he has. That other parties might also be 
responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. 
However, that fact should not impact on Mr Ws right to compensation for the full amount of 
his loss.
Therefore, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision outlined above which 
was to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I take the view that, if Logic had acted in his
best interests, Mr W would have remained in his existing pension plans.
What should Logic do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Logic Investment Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws SIPP with the notional value of his existing 
pension plans, had they remained in place.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the notional no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Logic should pay into Mr Ws SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Logic is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ws SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation. I have assumed that Mr W would have been a basic rate 
taxpayer, so a 15% reduction should apply.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Pay to Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If you consider that youre required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, you should tell Mr W how
much youve taken off. You should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Logic Investments Ltd 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman