DRN-4323170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the validity of their mortgage and other issues they have with 
Santander UK Plc
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have an interest-only mortgage with Santander. They took the mortgage out in 
2003 for 15 years with the term ending in September 2018. As the account wasnt paid off at 
the end of term, Santander eventually issued legal proceedings and got a Court Oder for 
repossession in August 2021. However, after discussions with Santander, it agreed a further 
12-month extension until September 2022 and repossession action was halted.
Mr and Mrs J say that they had a conversation with Santander then in September 2022 that 
gave them hope that they would get a further years extension. They say that this was 
important to them as by September 2023 they would have had investments available to them 
to put towards paying off the mortgage. But they were then told that no formal extension was 
set in place and Santander required monthly updates regarding their situation and how they 
planned to repay the balance of the account. An adviser was to get back to them but didnt. 
Santander says that the adviser tried but was not able to reach Mr and Mrs J. Mr and Mrs J 
say this is not true. Santander proceeded with further legal action and an eviction date was 
proposed for 21 February 2023. However, this was cancelled as Mr and Mrs J were working 
with Santander solicitors about a proposal of repayment. The case was bought to our service 
in February 2023.
Mr and Mrs J complain about the validity of the mortgage, the sale of the mortgage debt, and 
the lack of forbearance by Santander. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as she didnt feel that Santander had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs J 
disagreed saying in summary that they want Santander to produce the signed mortgage 
agreement/application and the mortgage deed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J are concerned about their mortgage with Santander and that this company 
may not be the owner and claimant and say they want two documents, namely the mortgage 
deed and the mortgage agreement as Mr J believes that without them, Santander will be 
unable to mount a claim against them. Mr and Mrs J also say that Santander will be unable 
to bring a claim against them as it was not the original lender and they question whether 
Santander ha the legal capacity to bring a claim. 
Mr J says that if Santander dont produce the two original documents he wants that  without 
them, this stops, they dont have a claim . But Santander has already made a successful 
claim in court against Mr and Mrs J. Ive seen a Court Order dated 19 August 2021 recording 
a hearing on 18 August 2021, whereby the court, after it says it heard from Mr and Mrs J in 
person, ordered that Mr and Mrs J give up possession of the mortgaged property and 
entered judgement for Santander for £219,148.41. Mr and Mrs J want me to consider the 
validity of the Santander mortgage and consider the mortgage documentation for the 
purpose of declaring it unenforceable. Our role is not to decide ion the legal validity or 
enforceability of agreements or to act as a discovery vehicle in a litigation process. These 
are matters and procedures for the courts to decide. And a court has decided that this 
mortgage agreement is enforceable by Santander and entered a judgement against Mr and 
Mrs J. We cannot overturn the Order of a court. So, we cannot assist Mr and Mrs J in their 
quest to declare the mortgage between themselves and Santander invalid.
The other issue is whether in 2022 there should have been a further extension of the 
mortgage term to allow Mr and Mrs J more time to address the issue of paying off the 
mortgage balance. By that time four years had passed since the mortgage term matured and 
Santander had got a court order. Mr and Mrs J understood they had got a years extension 
but Santander said that it would allow further time without a formal extension but working 
with Mr and Mrs J on a month to month basis. That seems entirely reasonable given the time 
that has passed since the mortgage matured. By that stage Mr and Mrs J had had four years 
since the mortgage matured to come up with a plan and it seems reasonable that they work 
with Santander to see if there is a realistic way to achieve both parties objectives. Mr and 
Mrs J thought that a further year would assist them. I dont see that that time period was 
ruled out by Santander if the parties worked together and indeed Mr and Mrs J were able to 
achieve their objective of a further year whilst, I understand, they remained in the mortgage 
property. So, for the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint,
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman