DRN-3883435
The complaint
Mr C has complained that ReAssure Limited refused to honour a guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) quote it sent to him.
What happened
Mr C had a ReAssure pension plan. The plan offered a GAR. In June 2022 Mr C rang 
ReAssure and asked it how much the GAR was for. It said it would give him the figure in 
writing. Mr C didnt receive ReAssures letter, so he rang it again. ReAssure said it would 
reissue the quote, which it did. Its letter said that Mr Cs plan had a total value of 
£128,817.70. It said the yearly amount payable under the GAR was the same figure - 
£128,817.70. It said that if Mr C were to buy an annuity from another provider, he could 
expect to receive a sum of £6,623.18 a year.
Mr C rang ReAssure to accept the GAR quote. It told him it had made a mistake in the 
amount it quoted. In July 2022 Re Assure sent Mr C an amended GAR quote. That again 
said that Mr Cs total plan value was £128,817.70. But the GAR was £12,114.12 a year. 
Mr C complained. He felt that ReAssure should honour the GAR quote of £128,817.70 a 
year.
ReAssure upheld Mr Cs complaint but didnt agree to honour the higher sum. It said that, 
owing to human error, it had quoted the wrong figure in its June 2022 letter. It apologised 
and sent Mr C a cheque for £350 compensation to address the impact of its mistake.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought that 
ReAssures response to the complaint was reasonable and that its compensation payment 
was generous in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs said that ReAssure sent him the wrong quote on two occasions. Thats because it 
reissued its June 2022 letter with the incorrect quote on it, so it actually posted that to him 
twice. Its evident that when Mr C told ReAssure he hadn't received the original letter it 
simply reprinted and reissued it. While it would have been helpful if ReAssure had checked 
the figures before reissuing it, that plainly didnt happen. But, I don't think that means 
ReAssure must honour the incorrect quote. Its patently obvious that the quote had 
incorrectly used the full fund value as the yearly GAR sum when that clearly was a mistake. 
Indeed, paying that amount only once would entirely deplete the total fund in one go. And I 
don't think it would be fair to expect ReAssure to honour an incorrect quotation for a higher 
sum any more than I would expect it to refuse to correct a lower sum if that was wrong. 
Mr Cs told us he took the plan out in 1996 when pensions regulations were different, and he 
had no benchmark with which to compare his GAR entitlement to, as ReAssure had been 
unwilling to confirm the GAR percentage. I haven't looked into how ReAssure calculates its 
GARs or whether it does so based on a flat percentage rate or if there are other aspects to 
that calculation. But, regardless of any changes in regulation, I think it would have been 
pretty clear to Mr C that his yearly annuity entitlement wasnt going to equate to 100% of the 
total value of the fund, when that fund value was intended to provide for him throughout his 
retirement. Especially when, as Ive already said, based on the incorrect quote, the fund 
would have been fully depleted in just one year. 
In other words, I dont think Mr C could realistically have expected his proposed GAR 
entitlement to be more than ten times his actual GAR entitlement  not without thinking there 
must have been some sort of mistake anyway. And especially when that amount was almost 
20 times higher than an annuity he could buy from another provider. 
I understand that it took ReAssure until July 2022 to correct its quote. But it wasn't aware it 
had made a mistake until Mr C said he would like to accept the GAR quoted, so it couldn't 
have corrected the error before then. And, once it knew it had made the mistake, it fairly 
quickly corrected it and took steps to put things right. I think it did so fairly and reasonably.
Mr Cs said that on a point of principle and honour, and in order to have trust and credibility 
in financial services, ReAssure should honour its quote. I appreciate Mr Cs disappointment 
on learning the true position, but I dont agree with him about Reassure honouring the 
incorrect amount. Its clearly not helpful when businesses make mistakes of this nature. But 
mistakes can and do happen. And, as I've said above, the quote is patently obviously an 
error. And financial service companies are not under any obligation to honour a figure that is 
plainly wrong especially when theres no evidence that Mr C was entitled to receive this 
amount. Further, as far as I'm aware, Mr C didnt enter into any financial commitments based 
on the incorrect figure. So, I don't think hes in a worse position now than he was before 
ReAssure sent the incorrect quote to him. And I think the steps its taken, including paying 
Mr C £350 compensation, is a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman