DRN-3563924
The complaint
Mr D complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
switch his Group Personal Pension (GPP) into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
and then invest in high-risk unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
In this complaint Mr D is represented by a claims management company, but for clarity 
Ill refer to all representations made as having been made by Mr D himself.
What happened
In 2013 Mr D says he was cold-called by Portal saying it wanted to discuss his pension with 
him. Portal then wrote to Mr D setting out what his pension options were. It said the 
following:
Option 1: Do nothing
You could leave your pension benefits with your current pension providers.
Option 2: Pension Release
You could transfer your benefits and release a tax-free lump sum of up to £3,030 
from your pension fund, leaving the residual amount invested until you need to take a 
regular income from your pension.
Option 3: Take Full Benefits and Retire with an Income
You could take up to £3,030 as a tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum and use the 
remaining fund to produce an income, which may or may not be from an annuity. We 
would use the open market option to get the best possible deal for you.
Portal told Mr D that he had nothing to lose by using its retirement review service, which was 
designed to help him make the right choice and maximise the benefits he would receive. It 
said any recommendation made would be backed up by a letter explaining, in plain English, 
why the recommendation was suitable. 
A fact find interview was completed in April 2013, and Mr D was sent a suitability report 
setting out Portals recommendations. 
Mr Ds circumstances were recorded at the time as:
He was a smoker, aged 56 and was in good health.
He was married with three children (no longer financially dependent).
Mr D and his wife struggled financially in 2012 as they were both made redundant but 
had since found work in the last six months.
He was employed full time as a lorry driver with a salary of between £20-21,000 per 
year.
His state retirement age was 66 and so would begin receiving this on 23 March 2023.
His main residence was worth £160,000 with a remaining mortgage balance of 
between £17-18,000. The monthly payment for this was £359.
Mr D also had a loan of £18,000 with a £600 monthly payment for this, due to be paid 
off in two years and seven months.
The income and expenditure completed showed that he had a disposable income of 
£214 per month.
He had recently started to make contributions to his occupational pension scheme, 
but aside from this his only pension provision was the PPP being considered. This 
was valued at £12,121 and he was not making any contributions to this.
Mr Ds objectives were recorded as follows:
His chosen retirement age was 66 and he said he would continue to work if possible 
and if he was fit and healthy enough to do so. He also mentioned he would downsize 
once his mortgage had been paid off.
He wished to take his full amount of TFC, equating to £3,030 for the purpose of home 
improvements. In particular, it is mentioned that he wanted new doors for his 
property.
He did not wish to take an income with the rest of the funds at this time, but would 
re-invest into drawdown. This would be instead of taking an annuity, for example.
He did not wish to take out any other financial products which charged interest as a 
means of funding his home improvements.
He would consider alternative investment types and was comfortable investing in 
property. It also states he was concerned about equity performance.
Portal recorded Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR) as being moderately cautious and it 
considered that he had sufficient capacity for loss for the recommendations it was making.
Portal recommended that Mr D transfer his personal pension into a Transact SIPP. It 
recommended he take his TFC and then invest the remainder of his pension as follows:
50% Hypa Raithwaite LP fund
7.5% Kudos Asia Investments Ltd fund
20% Venture Oil Investments Ltd fund
7.5% EOD Solar Investments Ltd fund
15% cash deposit
The suitability report included the fact that Hypa Raithwaite, Kudos Asia, Venture Oil and 
EOD Solar were UCIS. It also said that some of the partners in Portal may have business 
interests in some of the recommended investments, but it believed there was no conflict of 
interest.
Mr D accepted Portals recommendations and the transfer was completed.
Over the following years Mr D saw the value of his pension fund drop substantially, with 
some of the investments becoming illiquid. So he complained, via his representative to 
Portal in November 2018 about the suitability of the advice hed been given in 2013.
In its final response letter in February 2019, Portal didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in 
summary:The investments recommended met Mr Ds objectives and circumstances at the time 
of the advice, and the risks associated were not too high.
He wasnt misled about the suitability of the advice.
The investments reflected his ATR and capacity for loss.
Portal acknowledged the investment returns had been disappointing, but it said it had made 
Mr D aware the returns werent guaranteed. But it did say that should the issue with interest 
payments from the funds not be resolved by the time Mr D had reached his state retirement 
age, it would personally pay Mr D a retirement income based on the original expected fund 
performance and the annuity rates at the time. 
Mr D was unhappy with this response so complained to our service. He said, in summary:
He had a low attitude to risk and capacity for loss, but was told the returns he would 
get would be very good.
He did not want or need a new pension or make investments of this nature. The only 
objective he had was to retire at age 55(*) if possible.
The level and effect of the fees were not sufficiently explained and if they had been, 
he would not have gone ahead with the transfer at all.
As of the September 2018 valuation, the value of his investments was only £0.32. 
And, the only funds left are in the SIPP cash account, which continue to deplete due 
to fees.
* It should be noted that I believe this to have been an error in Mr Ds submission, as he was 
already 56 at the time he was advised by Portal. I am using his normal retirement age of 66 
as neither Mr D or Portal have stated otherwise.
On 30 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on the merits 
of the complaint, inviting both Mr D and Portal to respond and submit their supporting 
arguments and evidence. In my provisional decision I said:
Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I think the advice to transfer his GPP into 
the Transact SIPP and to invest 85% of his pension fund in UCIS funds was unsuitable. Ill 
explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr D. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook contains 
eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include: 
Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence. 
Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers. 
Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint. 
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments. 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist for 
pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it thought 
should be focussed on: 
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason? 
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early. 
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances? 
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place. 
And in 2014, following a previous alert in 2013, the FCA issued an alert outlining its specific 
stance on advice provided about SIPPs. This wasnt new guidance, it was the regulator re-
stating its position, so even though the alert was issued after Portal advised Mr D, it was still 
relevant:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then 
the overall advice is not suitable 
Overall, Im not satisfied Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.Taking the tax-free cash
One of the objectives recorded for Mr D was to take TFC of just over £3,000 for home 
improvements  namely some new doors. I can see why being presented with the 
opportunity to take a cash lump sum might appear attractive on the face of it, particularly as I 
can see he had no other savings to use to meet this need. But I havent seen anything which 
makes me think the home improvements were likely to be a pressing need. And I cant see 
that Mr D was even aware, before being told he could by Portal, that he may be able to 
release cash from his pension fund before retirement. I think, on balance, it is more likely 
that Portal told him he had the opportunity to take tax-free cash upon switching, and as a 
result he then decided he would use the cash for home improvements. I say this because 
Portal sent Mr C a letter on 4 April 2013 explaining the TFC he could take if he switched the 
plan  this was before Portal spoke to Mr C about his needs and objectives on 23 April 2013. 
So I do not think this was a legitimate objective that existed before Portals involvement.  
I also cant see that Portal explored any alternatives for raising the money for the home 
improvements. The suitability report indicates that Mr D didnt want to take on any more 
interest-bearing loans. And whilst this was understandable, given his limited disposable 
income, these would probably, in the longer term, have worked out cheaper than reducing 
his income for the entire period of his retirement. I can see that Portal have indicated how 
much Mr D would need to contribute to his pension to make up the shortfall brought about by 
taking the TFC, but I cant see how this figure was arrived at, taking into account the higher 
charges and fees associated with the SIPP. But whether Mr D didnt want to consider the 
other options or not, Portal was under an obligation to put them to him anyway, in a clear 
and understandable way, including the long-term effects and costs, so that he could make a 
fully informed decision.
As Ive said, a pension is intended for his use in retirement, so the most appropriate advice, 
given the apparent lack of any pressing need, wouldve been to advise him not to take the 
cash at that point, and leave all of his funds invested until retirement.
Was the advice to switch suitable?
When considering a case where someone has switched their pension funds, the consumers 
circumstances at the time must be considered. And in order to make the advice to switch 
suitable, the switch would need to be in the persons best interests. 
Mr D was cold called by an introducer who offered him a free pensions review. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mr D was interested in switching his pension before he was put in touch 
with Portal. So Portal needed to ensure it fully understood his needs and whether they were 
reasonable or warranted. This is important as suitable advice is dependent on balancing 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time, with his needs in retirement.
The SIPP, by Portals own admission, was more expensive, in terms of fees and charges, 
than Mr Ds current scheme. And as Ive already said, I dont think the advice to access the 
tax-free cash was suitable, so there needed to be other compelling reasons why it was in 
Mr Ds best interests to switch at the point he did. And Im not satisfied that there were. Portal have shown that his current pension plan was growing by an average of 6.5%, and 
with the higher charges and fees associated with the SIPP, the investment growth would 
need to be significantly more than he was currently achieving. But in its recommendation 
section Portal said:
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider. 
But, bearing in mind that his residual fund would have been reduced by taking out the tax-
free cash (and Mr D doesnt appear to have had the financial means to instantly make up the 
difference) I think it was important for Mr D to understand the potential growth that his 
investments might achieve, so he could make an informed decision. But other than the 
general statement above, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Portal gave Mr D a 
reasonable comparison to show him whether the SIPP was likely to provide a greater return 
at retirement. So, I cant really see how Mr D could have made a fully informed decision and 
formed the view that hed be better off at retirement by investing in the SIPP.
Portal also considered his ATR. Following Mr D completing a questionnaire, it stated his 
ATR was as follows:
Based on the answers you provided in your risk profile we believe you have a 
moderately cautious attitude to risk.
This broadly means: 
Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge 
about financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial 
issues. They may have some experience of investment products, but will be more 
familiar with bank and building society accounts than other types of investments.
In general, moderately cautious investors are uncomfortable taking risk with their 
investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky 
investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns.
Moderately Cautious investors typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles. They 
can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on financial matters and may 
suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
I havent seen anything which makes me think the funds Mr D was already invested in were 
unsuitable for him, or didnt meet his ATR. And in its suitability report, Portal havent shown 
how Mr Ds current pension arrangement, and the funds he was invested in, were unsuitable 
for his circumstances and objectives either. Portal did state that the Transact SIPP does not 
impose additional restrictions unlike many other providers but it hasnt shown that Mr D 
needed to or wanted to invest in funds which were restricted. And Ive not seen anything 
which makes me think Mr D had an understanding of the different types of investment he 
could utilise within a SIPP that were unavailable to him with his current pension provider. 
So, given the higher fees and charges associated with the SIPP, and that I cant see that the 
funds Mr D was already invested in were unsuitable, Im not persuaded that Portals 
recommendation for him to switch his existing pension funds into a SIPP was suitable 
advice. Had Portal more thoroughly explored his aims and considered his circumstances, I 
think it and Mr D would have determined it would be better if he stayed in his existing 
pension arrangements. And, at the very least, it could have explored the fund switches that 
were available to him within his existing schemes without incurring the same level of fees 
associated with the SIPP.Were the underlying investments suitable?
When considering the type of investments Mr D could make, Portal had a duty of care to 
make sure the investment advice was suited to Mr Ds ATR and his experience of 
investments. It also had to consider whether Mr D had the capacity to absorb any potential 
losses. And I think Portal has failed to adequately address any of these requirements.
Portal deemed Mr D to be a moderately cautious investor, as indicated above. But Mr D, in 
his complaint, has said he shouldve been classed as a low risk taker. This is of course with 
the benefit of hindsight, but I dont think it is far from the moderately cautious rating that 
Portal gave him anyway. So I dont think this makes a significant difference. I say this 
because I do not think the UCIS that Portal advised Mr D to invest his pension fund into were 
suitable for him at all. Ill explain why.
In July 2010 the FSA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FSA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS. And contrary to what 
the regulator said, Portal recommended that 85% of Mr Ds pension was invested across 
four UCIS funds. So this is highly relevant to my consideration.
The FCA (formerly the FSA) also said that UCIS was only eligible for promotion to a certain 
type of customer  usually sophisticated, high net worth investors, or one of the eight 
categories detailed in COBS 4.12. In the suitability report Portal has relied upon its assertion 
that because it was authorised to advise on UCIS products, it had been provided an 
exemption under COBS 4.12. It stated:
You are not a person who is exempt under the FSMA 2000 PCIS orders. i.e. a high 
net worth or sophisticated investor, however you are a person for whom we as an 
Independent Pension, Mortgage and Investment Advisory Firm qualified to advise on 
UCIS investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the 
particular collective investment scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC (Know Your 
Customer Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore 
provides an exemption under COBS (Conduct of Business) regulations 4.12.
However, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr D was the type of investor who might be 
deemed suitable to invest in such funds. And just because a firm follows the steps mandated 
by the regulator doesnt mean it is automatically exempt from the rules about promoting 
UCIS. The steps it followed had to be meaningful, accurate and appropriate for the individual 
concerned. 
UCIS are generally considered to be high risk investments. This is because they are 
unregulated, have liquidity risks, have a high degree of volatility. They also have little or no 
track record, so it is difficult to value them accurately. Im not persuaded that Mr D had the 
risk appetite or the experience to match the investments Portal recommended for him, and I 
cannot see hed have fully understood the nature, and the associated risks, of the 
investments he entered into. And whilst I accept Portal set out various risk warnings, this 
alone isnt enough to make unsuitable investments become suitable.  
And I also cannot see that Mr D had the capacity to absorb any potential losses to his 
pension plan. In its suitability report, Portal has said, I believe you have a suitable level of 
Capacity for Loss for the recommendation we have made for you.Ive looked at Mr Ds circumstances at the time. He didnt have any savings, but he had 
recently found new employment and had begun contributing to his new employers pension 
scheme. But Portal hasnt shown it made any enquiries about either the permanence or 
stability of this new job, or the pension provision the employers scheme may give him in the 
future. And he was paying towards a mortgage and a personal loan, meaning he had very 
little disposable income left each month. And other than the state pension, it doesnt appear 
Mr D had any significant retirement provision other than the personal pension Portal advised 
him to transfer. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that the recommendation to switch Mr Ds 
group personal pension into a SIPP was suitable. Im also not persuaded that Portals 
recommendation to invest Mr Ds pension provision in this way can be reasonably justified 
either. So I think Portal is responsible for any losses to the value of Mr Ds pension plan.
Mr D didnt submit anything further, but Portal did. It said the advice to transfer was suitable. 
And in particular it said:
It had explored the alternative ways Mr D couldve raised the money for his home 
improvements, but these were rejected by Mr D as;
he was unwilling to take out any further financial products with interest attached; 
he didnt have enough disposable income to service his needs, nor sufficient assets.
There were reasons for Mr D to switch pensions when he did, and switching his plan into the 
SIPP met his objectives and circumstances at the time because: 
Mr D had other provision for his retirement, namely: the state pension, his intention to 
downsize, his new occupational pension plan, the residual amount from this pension 
and a likely inheritance;
Mr D had a reasonable amount of disposable income;
the debt was in the form of a secured loan, meaning there was no benefit from 
paying this off early;
Mr D had alternative provision for his retirement and no other immediate need for his 
TFC entitlement;
it was his prerogative to use his money for home improvements;
Mr Ds original pension had no guaranteed benefits, and he was unable to release 
his TFC unless he purchased an annuity, and this wasnt suitable as he had no need 
or desire for additional income at that stage; 
Mr D specifically wished to reinvest the residual amount into a drawdown plan.
There was no reason to believe at the time of the advice that Mr D would be unable to 
recuperate the TFC hed used by making the level of contributions it had calculated. It had 
repeatedly warned Mr D of the implications and risks of taking TFC at the time.The advice for Mr D to invest in UCIS was suitable for his objectives, despite him being a 
moderately cautious investor. This was because:
He didnt intend to take any further funds from his pension until he was 66, which was 
10 years away. This meant there was a longer investment horizon with longer for the 
markets to recover from any losses;
He was made aware that his income at retirement would be dependent on fund 
performance and annuity rates at the time;
The funds recommended were all expected to mature by Mr Ds intended retirement 
age (which was flexible as hed said he would work longer if he was able);
The recommended SIPP allowed the release of the TFC and the residual 
reinvestment;
The SIPP had a wide range of funds which met Mr Ds desire to invest in alternative 
funds, particularly property;
The SIPP had an excellent track history;
The Raithwaite LP Fund was deemed to be low to medium risk with expected returns 
of over 11% over seven years;
Kudos Asia Investments Ltd Fund was expected to return 10.75% over three years;
Mr D was warned in his suitability report that these kinds of investments carry greater 
risks, and that if he was in doubt about these he should consult his advisor;
Mr D hadnt expressed any concern at the time of the advice, nor in 2015 when it 
informed him that the value of his pension had dropped and two of his funds werent 
performing as expected;
Despite the inherent risk with the type of funds, Mr D was happy to invest in them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered again my provisional findings in light of Portals response to it. And 
having done so, Ive not changed my mind, and my provisional decision stands. Ill explain 
why.
Taking the tax-free cash
Firstly, Ive considered Portals submission that it had considered alternative options for 
raising the funds Mr D said he required for home improvements. But it hasnt submitted any 
further information to support this, it has just reiterated its original position. And Im not 
persuaded that the objective for home improvement, identified in the fact find, was a 
pressing need, and one that necessitated taking funds from Mr Ds pension provision. And I 
maintain that I cant see that Mr D was even aware, before being told he could by Portal, that 
he could release cash from his pension fund before retirement.
Portal was not there just to do what Mr D wanted  its role was to give him advice as to his 
options, and then recommend what it considered to be the most suitable given his objectives 
and circumstance at the time. And Im satisfied that the most suitable advice at the time was 
to not take TFC from his pension before retirement. The pension switch
Portal has maintained that its advice to transfer his pension plan into a SIPP was suitable. 
But I dont agree. In addition to the reasons Ive previously given, I dont agree that it was 
suitable for Portal to base its advice on circumstances which were unknown at the time. I 
understand that Mr Ds potential future circumstances can be taken into account, but the 
justification Portal have given is based on only one certainty  that Mr D would be in receipt 
of the state pension. The other circumstances it has recorded as justification (downsizing, 
his new occupational pension, the residual amount from his existing pension, and his 
potential inheritance) were all unknown or uncertain, or subject to market volatility and risk. 
And I cant see that Portal made any enquiries as to the nature or permanence of Mr Ds 
new employment, nor the terms of his new occupational pension. Without an understanding 
of these important considerations its difficult to see how they can be relied upon to satisfy 
Portal that Mr D had sufficient pension provision to absorb any potential losses.
As Ive said, I dont think it was suitable advice for Mr D to take the TFC from his pension 
fund, and Im also satisfied that the advice to transfer his pension into the SIPP was 
unsuitable.
The underlying investments
Ive carefully considered Portals submissions to justify how it thought the advice for Mr D to 
invest in the four UCIS funds was suitable. But Im not minded to change my mind and Im 
satisfied that the investment advice it gave Mr D was unsuitable for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision.
Portal has not shown how its advice to invest 85% of Mr Ds pension funds into UCIS was 
appropriate or suitable, especially given that the regulator had published examples of good 
practice, including to ensure a client only exposed 3-5% of their portfolios to this type of 
fund. 
Portal have not shown that Mr D was the type of investor who might be deemed suitable to 
invest in UCIS. While Portal says that certain funds were expected to provide significant 
returns, this was entirely speculative. UCIS are complex and high-risk investments. Mr D 
was an inexperienced investor with a moderately cautious attitude to risk; for this reason, I 
dont think investing in UCIS was suitable for him in any proportion.
Portal has said that it made Mr D aware of the risks associated with UCIS investments, and 
that he was told to consult with his advisor if he had any concerns. But Mr D had very little 
experience or understanding of any investments, let alone complex UCIS. And he was 
entitled to rely on the advice he was being given by a professional financial advisor. And his 
advisor was advising him to invest his pension in UCIS, so I cant see why Mr D wouldve 
questioned this advice. And just because Portal set out various risk warnings doesnt make 
unsuitable investments become suitable.
Having taken everything into account, I agree that Portals recommendation to switch Mr Ds 
GPP into a SIPP was unsuitable. Im also satisfied that Portals advice to invest Mr Ds 
pension provision into the UCIS funds was unsuitable, so Portal is responsible for any losses 
to the value of Mr Ds pension plan.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.I think Mr D would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with his previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should 
not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This 
is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment 
of tax to HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Portal or Mr D dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr D 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of 
the poor advice given and negative impact on his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay 
Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Transact SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.The Transact SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Transact SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr D can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr D would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman