DRN-3418673
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way claims under his building warranty policy have been handled 
by National House-Building Council.
What happened
Mr B has a buildings warranty with NHBC which covers the new-build home he bought in 
early 2016.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I neednt go into great 
detail here. 
Suffice to say, Mr B has identified a very large number of issues with the way his home was 
built. 
Hes made a number of claims to NHBC over the past few years. And hes made a number 
of complaints to NHBC and to our service.
In March 2021, an ombudsman made a final decision on a complaint made to us by Mr B. 
He said NHBC should pay Mr B £500 in compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
suffered as result of avoidable delays in the handling of the claims. 
And he said NHBC should cash settle the claims, subject to Mr B providing them with 
quotations for the necessary repair work.
Since then, Mr B says NHBC have tried to consolidate his claims so that all the remaining 
repairs can essentially be dealt with as a piece. Mr B isnt happy with that because he thinks 
NHBC may miss some elements of his claims under the cover of de-duplicating outstanding 
issues on the various claims.
He's also unhappy that NHBC wont cover the cost of obtaining quotations for the work. He 
says builders are asking him for £300-£500 just to provide a quotation
Mr B made a complaint to NHBC about those points. Hes also asking NHBC to cover the 
cost of two expert reports he commissioned (at £650 and £1,050 respectively). 
He also wants NHBC to cover costs for repairs already carried out to his gutters (just over 
£70) and for window cleaning costs (£30). And he wants NHBC to pay him compensation he 
says is owed from previous complaints (to NHBC and to us)  at £150, £400 and £250 
respectively.
NHBC didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint so he brought it to us.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for NHBC to consolidate the claims. He didnt 
think NHBC should pay for the expert reports Mr B had commissioned. 
And he thought one lot of compensation (£250) neednt be paid  and in respect of the other 
two (£150 and £400), NHBC had reasonably asked Mr B to sign acceptance forms, which he 
hadnt yet done.
However, he thought NHBC should pay the repair and cleaning costs relating to the windows 
and gutters  as long as Mr B could provide invoices etc. 
He thought NHBC should pay any costs Mr B incurred for providing quotations, subject to 
him being able to show that those costs had been incurred and were necessary. 
And he thought NHBC should pay Mr B £150 in compensation for their lack of proactivity in 
progressing Mr Bs claims, which had led to further delay after our previous final decision in 
March 2021.
NHBC didnt agree to that proposed outcome, so the case has been put to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that in this decision I can only look at whats happened in the 
period between NHBCs previous final response to Mr B  which led to our previous final 
decision in March 2021  and the date of the most recent NHBC final response in 
September 2021.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult case for NHBC to deal with. There are multiple and 
partly repetitive claims, although Mr B tells us this was at NHBCs insistence until very 
recently when they decided to consolidate the remaining issues under one claim reference 
number. And there are hundreds of faults  and/or alleged faults  in the way the house was 
built.
I can also see from evidence we have on file that Mr B refused at one point to discuss the 
claims with NHBC because he didnt want to accept their proposal that the claims be 
consolidated.
However, I agree with our investigator that there have been delays which were avoidable 
and which were primarily NHBCs fault. They could, in essence, have been more proactive in 
looking for a mutually acceptable solution and moving the claims forward. 
I also agree that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset Mr B 
has suffered as a result of those NHBC failings. More than a year has now passed since our 
previous final decision, which might have been expected to result in a speedier resolution of 
these matters.
That is a long time. And its a further year or more of stress and inconvenience for Mr B. But 
I also have to take into account that NHBC arent solely responsible for the delay. There 
have been impasses at points where NHBC and Mr B simply couldnt agree on how things 
should move forward.
I agree with our investigator that NHBC arent liable for the costs Mr B incurred in obtaining 
the two expert reports on the state of his property. The claims hadnt reached a point where 
NHBC were declining to carry out or pay for the repairs Mr B wanted. They were still under 
consideration. 
If NHBC had declined a substantial part of the claim and Mr B had had to obtain an expert report to demonstrate that there were in fact issues which were for NHBC to deal with, then I 
might take a different view. But that wasnt the case here. Mr B chose to commission the 
reports. He didnt need to do so to force NHBC to accept any part of his claim that they 
should have accepted at the outset.
I should also point out that the issue around the report which cost £650 has been dealt with 
by us previously as part of another investigation, so I cant re-open that issue here.
I also agree with our investigator that theres no real issue with NHBC merging the claims. 
That seems to me to be a very sensible step and may in fact help to bring things to a 
speedier conclusion. 
I can see from documents we have on file that there has been a genuine attempt to 
consolidate the claims and de-duplicate the issues. And theres no evidence to suggest 
NHBC have  either intentionally or not  missed any part of the claims Mr B has made. 
If Mr B later discovers an item from any of his claims that has effectively been dropped 
without being resolved, through this process of merging the claims, Im sure NHBC will 
reinstate it and deal with it appropriately. 
Im satisfied NHBC have acted appropriately and fairly in dealing with the various 
compensation amounts. For the £150 and the £400, they asked Mr B to sign and return an 
acceptance form. He didnt, for whatever reason. Theyve re-sent the forms and will pay 
Mr B as soon as he returns them (if that hasnt happened already).
The £250 compensation was an award we proposed to make after looking at one of Mr Bs 
previous complaints to us. A financial business is only obliged to pay such an award if the 
customer accepts our decision. Customers can choose not to accept, so leaving open the 
option of taking their own legal action against the business.
In this case, we dont have any record of Mr B accepting our proposed outcome. He says 
that as that investigation ended, he simply wanted to complain about the service wed 
provided. Which he did. And hes entitled to do that. But hes not been able to provide any 
evidence that he accepted our decision on that case. And so, NHBC arent obliged to pay 
him that £250 now.
Im satisfied NHBC should now pay the cost of cleaning the window Mr B says was marked 
after the builder had carried out repairs at his home. Mr B has provided an invoice and 
NHBC should pay that cost given that it was very likely incurred because of the actions of 
the builder.
Mr B has also provided an invoice for repairs to his gutter. Hes also made clear what and 
where the damage was. NHBC havent given us any evidence or information to suggest that 
these repairs werent connected to the original issues with the way the house was built. So, 
they should now pay those costs to Mr B.
Finally, I also agree with our investigators view about the quotation costs. At present, its not 
clear whether Mr B has  or will  incur any such costs. NHBC says it would be unusual for 
contractors to charge for providing a quotation. Mr B says hes been asked for a fee by at 
least two builders hes contacted.
Im satisfied that if  and only if  Mr B in fact incurs any such charges and can appropriately 
evidence them for NHBC, then NHBC should cover those costs. Mr B has in effect been put 
in a position where a cash settlement is the only way to progress the claim. He hasnt 
insisted on a cash settlement. He shouldnt therefore have to pay for costs associated with getting independent contractors to quote for the work.
Putting things right
In summary, in order to put things right for Mr B, NHBC must now pay Mr B the costs he 
incurred in having his windows cleaned and his gutter repaired (adding 8% simple interest 
onto those two amounts from the date Mr B paid out to the date NHBC pay Mr B).
They must pay Mr B the £150 and the £400 compensation amounts promised earlier, just as 
soon as Mr B returns the required acceptance forms. And pay Mr B a further £150 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced between May 2019 and September 
2021 (the dates I can consider as part of this decision).
NHBC must also pay any reasonable costs Mr B incurs in obtaining quotations for the work 
still to be carried out. And cash settle these claims as soon as theyre able to validate the 
quotations Mr B is to provide, in line with the direction given in our previous final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
National House-Building Council must:
pay Mr B the cost he incurred in having his windows cleaned;
pay Mr B the cost he incurred in repairing his gutter;
pay Mr B 8% simple interest on those two amounts from the date Mr B paid out to the 
date NHBC make the payment to Mr B;
pay Mr B the £150 and the £400 compensation amounts promised earlier, as soon as 
Mr B returns the required acceptance forms;
cash settle Mr Bs claims as soon as they are able to validate the quotations to be 
provided by Mr B;
pay any reasonable - and evidenced - costs Mr B incurs in obtaining quotations for 
the required repairs work;
pay Mr B £150 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman