DRN-4250709
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) wont refund the money he says he lost to a 
scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here:
In late 2022, Mr S purchased a property which needed some renovation work before he 
could move in. So, Mr S decided to engage the services of a builder who could complete the 
work for him. 
It is unclear how Mr S found the builder, however, it seems likely that he was found online 
and was asked to attend Mr S property to provide him with a quote for the works to be 
completed. 
The builder visited Mr Ss property and it was agreed that a series of payments would be 
made as the work continued and was ultimately completed  the first £1,000 being paid 
upfront. Although no agreement or schedule of works was drawn up at the time, Mr S did 
receive a receipt for his initial £1,000 payment.
After the initial payment was made, the builder told Mr S that he was in attendance at the 
property. But Mr S wasnt able to check and confirm this or supervise the work as he was 
residing some 120 miles away whilst it was being completed. However, around 10 days after 
the first payment was made, the builder contacted Mr S to ask if a further payment of £2,000 
could be paid to pay for some tiles and some water damage. And so Mr S made the required 
payment. The builder then contacted Mr S again a little later to request another payment for 
£1,000 for some flooring. Mr S also made this payment and this brought his total outlay to 
£4,000. 
During the above time period, Mr S asked the builder, on numerous occasions, to provide 
him with pictures of the work progressing but the builder failed to provide any. Eventually, 
the builder contacted Mr S to say the work had been completed and Mr S could visit the 
property. But when Mr S did so, he realised it was still in a state of disrepair. Mr S now says 
that none of the agreed works had been completed and when he expressed his 
dissatisfaction to the builder, he provided him with various excuses as to why the work 
hadnt been completed as agreed. The builder told Mr S that he was ill in hospital and that 
his marriage had broken down so he would be going away for a while. Eventually, the builder 
stopped responding to Mr Ss messages and all contact ceased. Mr S now says he has been 
left without a property to live in and without the money to have the necessary works 
completed. 
Mr S reported what had happened to him to Lloyds and asked it to provide him with a refund. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Ss complaint and offered him a refund of the first £1,000 payment but 
not any of the others. There was some back and forth in regard to this payment as, at first, 
Lloyds mistakenly only refunded £500. It did, however, later refund the additional £500 
payment plus 8% simple interest and £25 to compensate Mr S for the inconvenience. Lloyds 
also later refunded £1.93 to Mr S that it was able to retrieve from the receiving bank. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
In summary, she said she didnt think Mr S had been the victim of a scam at all. She was 
persuaded that his circumstances more likely amounted to a private civil dispute between 
him and his builder and so she didnt think he was eligible for a refund under the relevant 
regulations. To support this, she said it appeared that the builder had attended the property 
and completed some of the work  just not as much as had been agreed and not to the 
agreed standards. She said this indicated that this was a dispute as to the quality of the work 
completed rather than a scam. As the investigator didnt think Mr S was due a refund under 
the relevant regulations, she didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further.  
Mr S disagreed and he maintained he had been the victim of a scam and was due more than 
what Lloyds had already agreed to refund him.  
As the case could not be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not upholding 
Mr Ss complaint. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. And, whilst Im sorry to hear of whats 
happened to him and his new property, I dont think I can fairly hold Lloyds liable for his loss. 
This is because not all cases where individuals have lost sums of money are, in fact, 
fraudulent and/or a scam. And Im not persuaded that I can say Mr S, has more likely than 
not been the victim of a scam here. So, whilst I can quite understand why Mr S feels that he 
has been scammed, there is a high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud and there are 
a number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship 
between two parties and for a dispute to exist. Ill explain my reasoning in further detail 
below:
The CRM code 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the CRM Code 
- which Lloyds has signed up to and which was in force at the time Mr S made these 
payments. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. So, Ive thought about whether the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances Mr S has set and whether Lloyds ought to reimburse him under the provisions 
of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Mr Ss circumstances fall into this definition of a 
private civil dispute, and I agree that this is most likely, based on the evidence Ive seen. Im 
also not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude, based on what I know and what the 
evidence shows, that Mr Ss builder set out with an intent to defraud him from the outset. It 
seems more likely to me that this is a dispute about a builder failing to complete the work 
agreed to the agreed standard. And this amounts to a private civil dispute, not a scam. 
Mr S has provided numerous photographs which he says show that the agreed work wasnt 
completed. And I agree that the photographs in question show a property in a state of 
disrepair. However, I havent been provided with any evidence that shows me what work 
was actually agreed between Mr S and the builder. And so, its now difficult for me to 
establish what work has or hasnt been completed. However, Mr S has provided this service 
with some of the messages shared between him and his builder and these messages 
indicate that some work was completed  for example tiles were fitted, albeit badly. So, 
whilst I can understand Mr S being of the opinion that the value of the work completed does 
not reflect what he paid, and this would clearly be unacceptable to him, this doesnt mean 
that his circumstances now meet the high legal threshold for this to be a scam where I would 
need to be satisfied that it was the builders intention to deceive from the start. Had this been 
the builders intention, it seems unlikely that he wouldve completed any work at all or have 
kept in contact with Mr S after the money had been received. 
In addition to the above, the messages shared between Mr S and the builder appear to show 
a breakdown in their relationship. The builder hasnt simply taken Mr Ss money and run. 
He is continuing to communicate with Mr S about the ongoing costs of the job and his 
personal circumstances. There would have been no benefit to the builder in continuing to 
communicate with Mr S after the payments had been received had his intention been to 
scam Mr S out of the agreed funds  he already had them at this point. And one of the 
messages appears to indicate the builder is refusing to return to the property because he is 
unhappy with some actions taken by Mr S and the amount of money provided - not because 
he intended to defraud Mr S. This rather suggests a disagreement between Mr S and his 
builder both in terms of the amount of work that was expected for the payments made and 
for some more personal reasons. And, again, I think this is suggestive of a civil dispute 
between Mr S and the builder rather than a scam.  
Finally, whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank, the evidence Ive seen regarding the beneficiary account 
suggests the receiving bank didnt have any concerns about how the account was being 
operated prior to Mr S making the payments now in question here and also reached the 
conclusion that this was most likely a civil dispute between Mr S and his builder. 
Overall, Ive had to base my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting 
to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the 
building work wasnt completed to the standard expected or agreed. I havent seen anything 
that persuaded me that the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr S. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds shouldve done anything else to protect Mr S. But 
given the relatively low value of the payments in question, I dont think Lloyds needed to provide him with a scam warning at the time. And, given that Im satisfied that this is most 
likely a private civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which any further intervention ought 
reasonably to have caused concern with the payments. So, I cant fairly criticise Lloyds for 
not having done more in these circumstances. 
Customer service failings
Whilst I acknowledge that Lloyds took a little longer than it shouldve to send Mr S its final 
response letter, I understand it needed more time to complete its investigation and it notified 
Mr S according and so Im not satisfied that this wouldnt warrant additional compensation 
now. I also acknowledge that Lloyds initially made a mistake in terms of the refund paid to 
Mr S but Lloyds rectified this mistake as soon as it was notified of it and it paid Mr S 8% 
simple interest to compensate him for the amount of time he had been out of pocket and 
also paid £25 in compensation to compensate him for any inconvenience caused. And so Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has already taken the necessary steps to put things right for Mr S and 
that it has already paid a reasonable amount of compensation. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything further now. 
I know this will be a huge disappointment to Mr S. This is not a decision Ive made lightly. I 
appreciate how Mr Ss feels about this case, and that his property was left unfinished. I 
sympathise with the position Mr S has found himself in, and Im in no way saying he did 
anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think his circumstances meet the high legal bar for 
this to be a scam and because of this, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
refund him more than it already has.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that the payments made to the builder are covered under the 
CRM code, or that Lloyds should be required to refund any more than it already has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman