DRN-4475115
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
applied a co-payment deduction to a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of 
her dog and made no payment under the death of pet benefit.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Ms W had a pet insurance policy with Red Sands, covering her dog, taken out in September 
2019. In December 2022 Ms W took her dog to a vet as it had been lethargic and hadnt 
eaten for a few days. Subsequent radiographs indicated something abnormal in the dogs 
intestines (the dog had been known to swallow foreign objects). Subsequent exploratory 
surgery identified a foreign body (rope cord and fabric) in the stomach, which was removed. 
However, the dogs condition deteriorated and had to be euthanised two days later.
The vet raised invoices for the cost of treatment, totalling £6,663.80 and Ms W made a claim 
under the policy. However, Red Sands only paid £1,600 of the bill, something Ms W said she 
only became aware of when the vet sent her a bill for the balance of the cost of treatment in 
February 2023. 
Ms W was unhappy at her claim not being paid at the full amount of the vet bill. She was 
also unhappy at Red Sands not making a payment under the death of pet benefit section of 
the policy, which she thought would mean a payment of £750.
Red Sands treated her challenge as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response 
they referred to the policy documentation sent to Ms W at the time of the policy renewal in 
August 2022.
Ms W then complained to this Service. She said she wasnt told about the outcome of her 
claim until she chased Red Sands for it. Nor had she been told that once a dog passed eight 
years of age the level of cover would be reduced (by application of a co-payment deduction) 
and that if a pet died the death of pet benefit reduced with the age of the pet. Shed had to 
borrow money to pay the outstanding vet bill. Shed also been affected emotionally by what 
had happened, at a difficult time with the death of her dog. She wanted Red Sands to pay 
the full value of the claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt think Red Sands had applied the co-
payment deduction fairly. While the policy specified it would be applied to the claim limit, this 
wasnt fair and reasonable as it meant a policyholder would not (when combined with the 
application of the policy excess) receive payment up to the claim limit. So, in reality, the 
policy limit was less than the amount stated. The investigator thought it should be highlighted 
more clearly in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). To put things right, the 
investigator thought Red Sands should settle the claim up to the claim limit of £2,000.
The investigator also thought Red Sands should pay Ms W £100 for the inconvenience of 
having to chase them for a response when she didnt hear anything about her claim.
On the death of pet benefit, the investigator initially thought Red Sands had met its 
responsibilities by sending the policy documents to Ms W and had correctly refused the claim 
as the policy specified once a dog reached eight years of age, the benefit would be 25% of 
the purchase price of the pet. But only if it died from an accident. As the death of the dog was 
due to illness  not an accident  Red Sands had applied the policy terms correctly.
Ms W responded to the investigators view to say her dog passed away following surgery to 
remove a toy the dog had swallowed. So, she thought the cause of death was the result of 
an accident (swallowing the toy) and not illness. 
The investigator accepted Ms Ws view and issued a supplementary view concluding Red 
Sands should pay £87.50 as death of per benefit (25% of the dogs £350 purchase price).
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, they said co-payments were an industry-wide practice 
and an affordable way to obtain pet insurance for older pets and keep down premiums. As 
with any insurance product, the increased risk (as pets grew older) had to be considered. 
And co-payment deductions only applied if a [future] claim was made. The policy documents 
sent to Ms W at policy inception and renewal made the position and approach to co-payment 
deductions clear (that the co-payment was deducted from the vet fee benefit  claim  limit).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate the difficult circumstances of Ms W losing her dog, which I 
know were very distressing for her. My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted 
fairly towards Ms W. 
The two key issues in Ms Ws complaint are, firstly, whether Red Sands acted fairly in 
applying the co-payment (and excess) deductions to the claim limit specified in the policy 
(£2,000). Ms W says this is unfair and wasnt made clear. Red Sands say they have applied 
the excess and co-payment deductions in line with the policy terms and conditions, which 
were clearly communicated to Ms W in the policy documentation (included in the renewal 
invitation in August 2022).
The second issue is Red Sands not making any payment for the death of Ms Ws dog under 
the death of pet benefit section of the policy. Ms W says she wasnt made aware of the age 
limit above which no benefit was payable. Red Sands again says the policy documents 
make the benefit terms and conditions clear, so Ms W should have been aware.
Theres also a further issue about Red Sands not telling Ms W about the status (rejection) of 
her claim until she received the bill from the vet.
Before considering these issues, Ive looked at the claim made by Ms W and what Red 
Sands paid to settle the claim. Red Sands say they issued a letter to Ms W in December 
2022 in which they accepted the claim, making a payment of £1,600 to her bank account. 
The letter broke down the payment as follows:
Cost of treatment £6,663.80Less: total not claimable £4,564.801 
Claimable costs £2,099
Less: policy excess £99
Less: co-payment (20%) £400
Total payable £1,600
Ive then considered the issue of the co-payment. Ive noted the IPID issued at renewal in 
2022 contains the following under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover?:
! Once your dog reaches the age of 8 or your cat reaches the age of 10, youll have 
to start paying either 20% or 35% of the vet fees every time you make a claim. This is 
known as a co-payment and the amount will be deducted from your vet fee limit.
The Policy Schedule at the 2022 policy renewal stated the co-payment deduction is 20% 
(the excess on vet fees is £99). Theres also a reference to further details in the policy 
documentation. 
Ive also noted the renewal notice for Ms Ws policy, in August 2022, includes the following 
statement under a heading As [name of dog] gets older:
as [name of dog] is now over the age of 8, youll have to start paying a 20.00% 
share of the vet fees every time you make a claim (including claims for ongoing 
treatment). This is called a co-payment and it is charged in addition to the excess on 
your policy.
This policy allows you to claim a percentage of the purchase price you paid for your 
pet if they die. Because [name of dog] is now over the age of 8, this benefit will now 
only be paid if the cause of death is an accident.
The detailed policy wording (and other documents) also refer to the co-payment deduction 
for dogs over eight years of age. Ms W says she didnt receive policy documentation at 
renewal in August 2022 so wasnt aware of the co-payment deduction. However, looking at 
earlier policy documentation, the co-payment deduction is referred to. For example, the 2018 
policy document includes the following statement under the Policy Summary section, sub 
heading Policy Limits:
Co-Payment
A co-payment is payable for dogs aged 8 years and older and for cats aged 10 years 
and older. This is deducted from the Condition Limit. 
Please refer to your schedule for the excess and co-payments applicable for each 
condition.
While Ms Ws dog didnt reach eight years of age until early 2022 (so the co-payment 
deduction would only apply from the August 2022 policy renewal) I think she should 
reasonably have been aware of the existence of a co-payment deduction. 
The application of a co-payment deduction is also common to many pet insurance policies, 
reflecting the increased likelihood of conditions arising as a pet grows older. This means an 
increased risk of claims, which is reflected in both the premiums charged (which tend to 
increase with the age of the pet) and the application of a co-payment deduction. 
1 Calculated as £6,663.80 less vet fee excess £99 = £6,564.80. £6,564.80 less Annual Condition limit £2,000 = 
£4,456.80So, Ive concluded Red Sands acted fairly in applying a co-payment deduction of 20% to Ms 
Ws claim.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the question of how the co-payment 
deduction is applied to a claim. Red Sands, in disagreeing with our investigators view, say 
the policy terms and conditions make it clear the co-payment is deducted from the vet fee 
benefit  claim  limit. Which in the case of Ms Ws policy is £2,000 - so, applying a 20% co-
payment deduction means a deduction of £400 and a claim payment of £1,600. 
Looking at the above references and the detailed policy document wording provided by Red 
Sands in support of their view, I agree this is what the policy documentation sets out.
However, I dont agree that applying this method of calculating the co-payment deduction is 
fair or reasonable. Ive reached this conclusion for several reasons. First, in taking out the 
policy, Ms W selected an annual limit on claims of £2,000 (other levels of cover were 
available, with differing limits of £1,000 and £4,000). So, I think it reasonable for Ms W to 
have expected the maximum amount payable under a claim (for any one condition in any 
one year) would be £2,000. In practice, where a co-payment deduction is applied, the 
effective limit on any one claim is £1,600. 
And the policy documents, including the policy schedule, specify a £2,000 limit. The way the 
co-payment would be deducted from the condition limit is mentioned in the policy booklet but 
isnt highlighted. And in any event I think its misleading to say the limit is £2,000 in the 
circumstances where a co-payment deduction applies so that amount would never be paid. 
Ive also noted that applying the co-payment deduction to the claim limit isnt consistent with 
how the general policy excess is applied. The above breakdown of the settlement of Ms Ws 
claim shows the policy excess of £99 isnt applied to the claim limit of £2000  if it were, the  
net payment would be £1,501 (not £1,600). 
Having reached this conclusion, I think it would be fair and reasonable to apply any co-
payment deduction to the gross amount of a claim (along with the general policy excess) and 
then reduce the net sum down to the policy limit. Taking the breakdown above, this would 
mean deducting 20% of £6,663.80 (which is £1,332.76) and the £99 policy excess. Which 
would leave a net amount of £5,232.04. Applying the policy limit of £2,000 would mean 
reducing the net amount by £3,232.04.
So, Ive concluded Red Sands should make an additional settlement of the claim of £400 to 
bring the net payment up to the policy limit of £2,000, which is the amount Ms W could 
reasonably have expected to be paid. They should also add interest to the additional 
payment, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they made the settlement of £1,600 to the 
date they pay Ms W the additional £400.
Turning to the second issue, death of pet benefit, the second element of the above renewal 
notice statement makes it clear because Ms Ws dog was over eight years of age at the time 
of its passing (the clinical notes indicate it was eight years and eight months old) then the 
death of pet benefit would only be paid if the cause of death was an accident. The IPID 
issued at renewal in 2022 contains a similar statement, that the policy will not pay for the 
death of any pet from illness once a dog reached the age of 8 years and over.
Looking at the clinical notes of the dogs treatment and what happened as set out above, it 
seems clear the dogs condition was a direct result of it swallowing a foreign body, which 
then required treatment and surgery. I think swallowing a foreign body can reasonably be 
held to be an accident  it isnt an illness.So, Ive concluded it wasnt fair or reasonable for Red Sands to decline to make a payment 
for the death of Ms Ws dog under the death of pet section of the policy. 
Looking at the detailed terms and conditions, the appropriate percentage of the purchase 
price for a dog over eight years of age is 25%. The policy schedule records the purchase 
price of the dog as £350. Applying 25% to this figure gives a sum of £87.50. So, Ive 
concluded Red Sands should pay Ms W £87.50 as a death of pet benefit. Red Sands should 
also add interest to the death of pet benefit of £87.50.at a rate of 8% simple, from the date 
they made the claim settlement of £1,600 to the date they pay Ms W the £87.50.
Ms W says she thought the policy should pay £750 under the death of pet benefit section. 
Its true the 2019 Policy Schedule issued when the policy was taken out records this sum 
under the Death of Pet heading. But, at that point, Ms Ws dog was under eight years of age 
(it was born in 2014) so the Policy Schedule was correct. And the above reference from the 
August 2022 Renewal Notice makes it clear this no longer applies (the detailed policy terms 
and conditions refer to the 25% or purchase price calculation used for death of pet benefit 
where a dog is over eight years old.
The other issue in Ms Ws complaint is that she wasnt aware of the co-payment deduction 
and non-payment of death of pet benefit until she received a bill for the remaining balance of 
the cost of treatment from her vet. And she had to contact Red Sands to ask why her claim 
had been settled at £1,600. While Red Sands have provided the above letter dated 
December 2022, addressed to Ms W, from what Ive seen I dont doubt what Ms W has told 
us. And given the circumstances of the passing of her dog, I think this would have caused 
her distress at a difficult time. Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I think 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Settle Ms Ws claim at the claim limit under the policy (£2,000). That is, pay an 
additional £400 to the £1,600 theyve already paid.
Pay Ms W £87.50 in respect of death of pet benefit.
Pay Ms W £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should also add interest to the additional 
payment, of £400 and the death of pet benefit of £87.50.at a rate of 8% simple, from the date 
they made the settlement of £1,600 to the date they pay Ms W the £400 and £87.50.
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell them Ms W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman