DRN-2076260
The complaint
Ms A complains that she couldn't use her online banking facility with 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as smile) for around three months.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 July 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold 
this complaint and increase the award. My provisional decision said: 
What happened
On 15 October 2019 Ms A spoke with smile after she was invited to merge her accounts
under one online banking profile. But there was a problem that left Ms A unable to access
her online banking facility.
Ms A has told us she works unsociable shifts in a secure environment. As a result, Ms A
says she was generally unable to call smile to carry out telephone banking. Ms A says that
while the automated telephone banking service can carry out limited functions, it wouldn't
have allowed her to manager her accounts and finances.
Smile referred Ms A's accounts to its technical support teams to try and fix the problem.
Smile accepts that there were delays and Ms A wasn't contacted as promised. Ms A
complained and smile responded on 20 January 2020 to say the online banking issues had
been resolved and she could use the service again. Smile accepted the service provided
was poor and paid Ms A £150.
Ms A referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They
thought smile had dealt with Ms A's complaint fairly and didn't ask it to do anything else. Ms
A said she didn't think the offer of £150 was fair and didn't reflect the impact of being without
online banking for an extended period. As Ms A didn't accept the investigator's view her
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms A is upset as I can see she was without her online banking facility
for around three months. I agree that the level of service she received during this time was 
poor, that smile failed to update and contact Ms A as promised and that her ability to carry
out normal, day to day, banking was severely affected by the technical problems she
experienced.
I think all parties broadly agree about what happened. I've read and considered all of Ms A's
comments made in response to our investigator setting out how the lack of online banking
impacted her specifically.
Ms A explained that due to the nature of her job she can't have a phone with her during work
hours. In addition, her job requires long shift patterns that often coincide with the hours
telephone banking is available. I have to take into account that Ms A would most likely have
been able to have called the telephone banking number at some point during her week. But I
agree that in Ms A's circumstances, her ability to do so was severely limited. Ms A has
explained that her shift patter and job meant she has come to rely on her online banking
facility and I can see how frustrating it was to have it suspended.
Ms A has also said that the automated telephone banking service only provides a very
limited service. I agree that the options available via smile's automated telephone banking
appear to be significantly less than those available via its online banking facility.
Smile has pointed out that its terms say there will be times when online banking isn't
available 24/7. But the situation here resulted from a system error rather than regular
maintenance. So whilst I can see there is provision in the terms that online banking may be
unavailable, I can see that Ms A was significantly inconvenienced by the process taking
three months to resolve.
I've also considered how the issue was handled by smile. Smile accepts that Ms A wasn't
contacted as promised and that, as a result, she had to chase it for updates. Smile also
accepts that Ms A was given contradictory information by different people she spoke with
which added to her frustration. Smile says it wasn't able to listen to all of Ms A's calls but has
also upheld her complaint concerning the way she was spoken to.
I agree with Ms A that £150 doesn't fairly reflect the impact of her inability to use online
banking for three months along with the way the situation was handled by smile. Based on
the information I've seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms A's complaint and tell smile to
increase the level of compensation offered from £150 to £300. I've considered what Ms A
has told us about how she was affected. Having done so, I think £300 more fairly reflects the
impact of smile's errors as well as the service provided.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or 
comments they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Ms A responded to 
say she accepted my provisional decision and that the increased award more fairly reflected 
the issues she had encountered. Smiles case handler responded and asked for some 
questions about the decision to increase the award. Our investigator sent smile some further 
context surrounding the provisional decision and it accepted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted then provisional decision, I see no reason to change to 
conclusions I reached. For the same reasons, I still think Ms As complaint should be upheld 
and that smile should increase the award to £300. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
smile) to pay Ms A £300 (less any compensation already paid).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman