DRN-4154792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs I were sold PPI in 2000 and 2008 at the same time as taking out mortgages. 
Although they were joint mortgages, the policies on each occasion were set up just to cover 
Mr I.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs I disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2000 sale
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork available from the time of the sale, which isnt 
surprising given the time that has elapsed. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr and Mrs I say the offer of a six-month free PPI policy was used as an incentive for them 
to take out a particular mortgage product. Deciding on a particular mortgage usually 
depends on a number of factors, such as interest rates, the availability of fixed term periods 
etc. Associated PPI wouldnt normally be the main reason why someone would ultimately 
choose one mortgage over another. As the policy was free for six months, it could have been 
cancelled at the end of the free period if Mr and Mrs I decided they no longer wanted it. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs I have said but, on balance, Im not persuaded 
that the six-month free offer means that they werent given a choice about buying the policy.
Based on what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. On balance, I think it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs I decided 
to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to.
This was a non-advised sale, so the seller didnt need to ensure that the policy met their 
particular needs. But it did need to provide sufficient information for Mr and Mrs I to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them.
I dont know what was discussed during the meeting. I think that Mr and Mrs I would have 
known something about the policy  that it would cover their mortgage repayments if Mr I 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think 
theyd have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it. And they were 
aware that a cost would be applied at some point because they understood that it was only 
free for six months.
Its possible that more information could have been provided about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr I wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded 
under the policy. As I consider that Mr and Mrs I had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
I. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to them because:
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and 
Mrs I about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
2008 sale
Nationwide does have some paperwork relating to the 2008 sale. I can see that Mr and Mrs I 
were provided with a PPI illustration. This states that they dont have to purchase any 
insurance from Nationwide. And I consider it is clear that the PPI is being presented as a 
recommendation rather than something that necessarily forms part of the mortgage 
application. So again, I find that Mr and Mrs I chose to take out the policy, knowing that they 
didnt have to.
This was an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to Mr and Mrs I, Nationwide 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for them.
The PPI illustration explains that the policy is being recommended for Mr I only as the main 
wage earner. It further states that Mr I would only receive 4-6 weeks sick pay from his 
employer as he had only been there 14 months and that Mr I wanted unemployment cover in 
place for peace of mind as he had been made redundant before.
Mr and Mrs I have told us they had significant savings. But the PPI would have allowed them 
to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Mr and Mrs I say they also took out a critical illness policy in 2000. But those sorts of policies 
cover a different set of risks than PPI. So Im satisfied that the PPI wasnt replicating any 
other insurance that they had.
So overall, I think they had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it if the 
insured risks had come to fruition.
The PPI illustration sets out the cost of the policy after a three-month free period. So I think 
Mr and Mrs I would have known what theyd be paying for it.
Again, its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But again, I havent seen 
anything about Mr Is circumstances in 2008 that would lead me to conclude that he would 
have been caught by any of the exclusions or limitations in the policy. As I consider that Mr 
and Mrs I had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a 
result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide 
needs to do to put thing right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
With regard to unfair commission and profit share, as our adjudicator has explained, this 
issue only relates to mortgages taken out before mortgage lending became regulated in 
October 2004. So it does not apply to the 2008 sale.
My final decision
The PPI policies were not mis-sold  Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs I.
But, in relation to the 2000 sale, Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr 
and Mrs I any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman