DRN-1564020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited is acting unfairly and 
unreasonably by failing to provide them with information about their mortgage. They want 
matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an interest only mortgage with Kensington. They said that they wanted 
information about the mortgage statement for the year 2018 - 2019. Mr and Mrs M said that 
the repayment amount had decreased, and thought it was to do with the waiver of the 
redemption fee; Kensington had said it wouldn't charge people when the mortgage ended 
from 2009 onwards if given one month's notice. Mr and Mrs M suspected that they'd 
overpaid their mortgage since 2009 and that Kensington was refusing to give them a 
breakdown of the account or why the repayment amount was over.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Kensington. It said the annual statements weren't redemption 
statements, and included early repayment charges when applicable. Kensington said that 
the 2019 statement explained that the early repayment figure included a mortgage exit fee 
and interest. It explained that the early repayment charge changed over time, which was set 
out in the mortgage offer, and that the final figure depended on whether any other fees had 
been charged and the payments made each month.Kensington accepted that the amount Mr 
and Mrs M had to pay according to the statements had reduced.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us, and said that they were relying on the annual statements as 
redemption statements as they were considering remortgaging. They believed that 
Kensington was in breach of contract. Kensington explained that the reduction in the amount 
stated in the statements as the amount to be paid to close the mortgage was connected to 
the early repayment charge no longer being applicable.
The investigator's view was that Kensington wasn't at fault. He accepted the explanations it 
had given, and there hadn't been a breach of contract. The investigator pointed out that this 
service wasn't a forensic accounting service so if Mr and Mrs M wanted an investigation 
about all the transactions on their mortgage account, they'd have to instruct a forensic 
accountant.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt the investigator hadn't done his job properly and asked 
for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which was the one dealt with in the final response letter about the reduction of the 
amount shown as needing to be paid to close the mortgage in the 2019 annual statement.
Having considered the statement, and the earlier ones, I can't say Kensington is at fault. The 
amount to be paid changed over time due to the early repayment charge (which also reduced over time), the interest to be charged, and the transactions within the account. This 
is set out within the mortgage statement and Kensington provided additional explanation in 
its final response. The removal of the early repayment charge is key.
I would also point out that an annual statement is not a redemption statement. It shouldn't be 
relied upon if a borrower intends to redeem their mortgage; it can only be correct as at the 
time of printing and mightn't include all fees due. This is why redemption statements exist as 
they should be an up to date reflection of the position and are intended to be relied upon for 
the purposes of redemption.
There's no evidence supporting a finding that Kensington has breached the contract in how 
the annual statement has been set out.
As I haven't found Kensington to be at fault, it would be unfair and unreasonable for me to 
award compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman