DRN-4439095
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to 
him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr W with a loan for £3,000.00 in March 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 77.7% and a term of 36 Months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,366.00 (which included interest, fees and charges of £3,366.60) was due to be repaid in 
36 monthly instalments of just under £176.85. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Ws application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and bank account statements which Mr W was 
asked to provide. 
In its view all of this information showed Mr W could afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr W has said he should never have been provided with 
this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this wasnt a case of Everyday Loans simply accepting an 
over-optimistic declaration of disposable income at face value. Everyday Loans clearly 
asked Mr W to provide quite a bit documentation to support what he had declared during the 
course of his application. Indeed, Mr W was asked to provide bank statements and the 
markings on the copies Ive seen suggest that they were closely analysed. 
Everyday Loans credit searches also showed the existing debts and defaults Mr W has 
referred to. But the notes from the time suggest that Mr W said that this was because of 
difficulty due to previous issues which had now been resolved. Mr W may consider that this 
was accepted at face value. But Everyday Loans already had his bank statements at this 
stage and its difficult to see what additional information it could ask for. So I think that asking      
Mr W about the defaults and carrying out a detailed income and expenditure was a 
reasonable method of reacting to what had been found out.  
Furthermore Mr W also had answers for some for the returned payments on his account 
statements too. And he does appear to have been the case that there was a transferring of 
funds taking place. So its not only clear that some detailed questioning and investigation 
took place and the answers provided werent implausible, on the contrary they appeared to 
be supported by the rest of the information. Its also worth noting that the payments did 
appear to be affordable based on the information gathered too. 
I know Mr W has now done his own income and expenditure and says this ought to have 
shown the loan was unaffordable. But he did sign the detailed one Everyday Loans carried 
out at the time, which was completed as part of a review with him and which had a 
disposable income that appeared to show the monthly payments were affordable. And as far 
as I can see, Mr W didnt take any steps to correct this information at this time.
I accept that Mr W says he experienced difficulty making the payments. Im sorry to hear 
about what hes told us. And its clear that Mr Ws circumstances appear to have changed for 
the worse since he was provided with this loan. But Everyday Loans could only make a 
reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
Everyday Lending wont have known that Mr Ws circumstances would change in this way. 
The information it had at the time and which Ive been provided with now all point to the loan 
being affordable at the time. As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did 
anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr W. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint, I would remind Everyday Loans of its 
continuing obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should be the case that 
Mr W is experiencing difficulty and it chooses to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman