DRN-3480639
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim for legal 
expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Acromas, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr H is in dispute with one of his 
neighbours. He would like to take legal action in relation to a variety of matters which include 
damage to his property, nuisance and personal injury. 
Mr H submitted a claim form to Acromas in late 2019. This recorded that he had become the 
victim of antisocial behaviour from his neighbours. Acromas later went on to decline the 
claim based on it not having reasonable prospects of success (a requirement for cover under 
the policy). Mr H complained. 
Mr H submitted further information and another firm of solicitors M considered the claim. 
But ultimately the advice remained unsupportive and Acromas declined to do more. Mr H 
complained and when Acromas maintained their position he referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Acromas had provided separate responses to Mr Hs complaints. Ive already issued a 
jurisdiction decision explaining that the first complaint was referred to us too late and wasnt 
therefore something I could consider. So I can now go ahead and address the merits of the 
later complaint, which was referred to us in time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has concerns that the incorrect policy documents have been used when declining his 
claim. There are two sets of policy documents that Ive seen, one dated July 2018 and 
another dated September 2018. Ive reviewed what I believe to be the relevant parts of both 
documents and I didnt notice any differences in the policy wordings. Acromas invited Mr H 
to point out where any differences were and how these impacted the assessment of his 
claim. I think this is fair. Even if Acromas have used the wrong document, Im not persuaded 
it has made a difference to the outcome of the claim. Mr H has been given an opportunity to 
point out any relevant differences and in the event of him doing so, Id expect Acromas to 
give the matter further consideration. 
Mr H had concerns that M may have a conflict of interest and that they werent suitable to 
conduct an assessment of his claim. I can see that Acromas asked M about this who 
confirmed there was no conflict of interest in them doing a prospects assessment on Mr Hs 
claim. I think M were well placed to know if they were able to act without a conflict and, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think its reasonable for Acromas to rely on what M told 
them in that regard.  
Like nearly all LEI policies Mr Hs requires that any underlying claim has reasonable 
prospects of success and that it is proportionate to pursue. I dont think either requirement is 
unfair or unreasonable. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt 
generally continue to fund legal work where they were advised they were unlikely to win, or 
where the costs of continuing were more than they stood to gain if successful. So, I dont 
think an insurer should have to proceed in those circumstances either. 
Acromas themselves arent legal experts, so I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice was so obviously 
wrong that a layperson could be expected to notice. 
Ive seen the legal advice provided by M to Acromas. This makes clear that its author thinks 
that parts of Mr Hs claim dont have reasonable prospects of success, and that others are 
disproportionate to pursue. 
Mr H has highlighted that the legal advice referred to damage to his house in three rooms 
when actually four had been damaged. The missing damage related to a crack in Mr Hs 
bathroom ceiling. Acromas complaint response acknowledged that they werent experts, but 
they didnt think this was something that would meaningfully make a difference to the value 
of his claim with regard to proportionality. 
I dont think this was an unreasonable position for them to take in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And Ive also seen a quote for repairs and redecoration (of all four rooms) 
obtained by Mr H which is for £790. This supports the assumption made by Acromas that 
there was unlikely to be a significant difference in value. And overall, I still think it was fair for 
them to rely on the legal opinion about the proportionality of progressing a legal case in 
these circumstances.
As and when Mr H provided further information, this was sent on to M to see if it changed 
anything. I can see that this took place numerous times. But ultimately the solicitor didnt 
change their mind based on Mr Hs further submissions. Acromas have done what Id expect 
here, passing on new information and obtaining updated advice. I think this is fair. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Mr Hs evidence wasnt passed on and I wouldnt expect 
Acromas to allow Mr H direct access to the solicitor at that stage of the claim or for him to 
check the communication between them. 
Mr H was concerned about similarities between two legal assessments he received on his 
claim. Acromas said that they provided a copy of the original assessment of Mr Hs claim 
(that referred to an earlier decline decision not part of this complaint) for his reference and 
its likely this is what he was referring to. Again, I think this is reasonable. And even if there 
were similarities between the two reports, it wouldnt be unusual for different legal 
professionals to reach similar conclusions on a case. Either way, I dont think Acromas did 
anything wrong in this regard.
For completeness, Im also satisfied that the solicitor involved was suitably qualified and I 
dont consider the advice given to be obviously wrong. Acromas shared with Mr H that it was 
a senior associate from M. I dont think Acromas declining to share the name of the 
individual involved was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
conducted my own online research and Im satisfied that the individual mentioned by 
Acromas was suitably qualified. A significant part of the claim involves his neighbour being responsible for gas emissions 
entering Mr Hs address. Mr H believes this has had a significant impact on his health. The 
legal advice from M was clear that they didnt believe the neighbours actions constituted a 
nuisance. But Mr H wanted consideration of this as a personal injury claim. 
Acromas highlighted part of the policy which, with regard to personal injury claims, says they 
do not cover any claim relating to: Illness or injury not caused by a sudden or specific 
accident or that happens gradually.
I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably when concluding that an injury claim in these 
circumstances was caught by that exclusion and therefore wasnt covered. Mr Hs own 
evidence doesnt support that there was a sudden or specific accident and any injury 
appears to have been happening gradually. 
Acromas have also said that if Mr H provides a legal opinion supporting that his claim meets 
the requirements of the policy, then they will give the matter further consideration. They have 
also demonstrated a willingness to consider any new evidence or information they havent 
seen before to see if that changes anything. Again, I think this is fair. I appreciate that Mr H 
has had an incredibly difficult time recently. Any dispute involving a home is always 
particularly impactful. Especially one that has warranted police action as I understand has 
been the case here. Im also mindful of Mr Hs individual circumstances and his health 
situation. 
But that being said, Acromas are entitled to rely on legal advice when making a claims 
decision. And LEI isnt all encompassing, there will always be terms, conditions and 
exclusions to consider. And overall, Im not persuaded Acromas have acted outside the 
policy terms or have treated Mr H unfairly. So despite my natural sympathy for his situation, 
Im not going to tell Acromas they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman