DRN-2198701
The complaint
Miss L complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC), 
even though she had to sell her property due to a health condition. 
What happened
Miss L had a mortgage with Santander. She took out a five-year fixed rate product in 2018, 
which included an ERC. In 2019 Miss L was diagnosed with a health condition that meant 
she wasnt able to continue working full time. She couldnt afford the mortgage while working 
shorter hours. So she decided to sell the house and move in with family.
Santander declined Miss Ls request to waive the ERC. It said this was because her illness 
isnt critical and theres enough equity to pay the ERC. Miss L says while she agreed to the 
ERC when she took out the product, she had no idea shed develop a debilitating illness.
Miss L sold her house and repaid the mortgage, including the ERC, in June 2020.
Our investigator said Santander hadnt made an error, and there was no requirement for it to 
waive the ERC.
Miss L didnt agree. She said it isnt right that the team at Santander making these decisions 
dont have medical training. She felt they didnt understand her condition could develop into 
something worse. She said the amount of equity Santander said shed be left with isnt a 
huge amount. Miss L asked if Santander would have waived the ERC if she was destitute, 
and if it prefers people to work until they are critically ill and lose their income and properties 
rather than waive charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L took out a five-year fixed rate product. An ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid 
before November 2023. Miss L sold the house and repaid the mortgage in 2020. And so, 
under the terms of the product she agreed to, Santander was entitled to apply the ERC.
Theres no provision in the mortgage terms and conditions requiring Santander to waive the 
ERC due to Miss Ls health diagnosis or change in circumstances. 
Miss L doesnt dispute that she agreed to the product terms, including the ERC. She says 
when she took out the product she was in good health, and didnt expect this to change. 
Miss L says her health condition has affected her daily life and her ability to work and, 
therefore, to continue to pay her mortgage. And because of this unexpected change in her 
circumstances, she says Santander should have waived the ERC. 
First, I should say that Miss L raised some questions that I wont be looking into here. I dont 
need to make any findings about what would have happened if Miss L didnt have equity in 
the property, if she was destitute, or if she had to keep working while critically ill to pay the 
charges applied by Santander. Fortunately, Miss L didnt find herself in these circumstances.
What I have to do is decide whether Santander treated Miss L fairly, based on what it knew 
about her circumstances. 
Santander has a process for responding to requests to waive ERCs. While it needed to take 
evidence about Miss Ls health into account, I dont think this means its team needs medical 
training. I think Santander could fairly rely on evidence provided by Miss Ls doctor. A letter 
from Miss Ls doctor confirmed her health condition, and that this had impacted Miss Ls life 
such that she found she was no longer able to do the job she was doing previously and was 
planning to work part time. 
Santander also considered Miss Ls financial circumstances. It estimated Miss L had equity 
in the property of about £90,000, and so she was able to pay the ERC when she sold the 
property. Miss L hasnt said that she had to sell the property for less than expected. 
Miss L explained how difficult it would have been for her to continue working full time in her 
previous job, and that she needed to make changes to protect her health. She says she 
wouldnt have been able to afford the mortgage while working part time. Im sorry for how 
Miss L has been affected, and the changes shes made to protect her health.
But I must be fair to both parties here. Having to pay the ERC didnt prevent Miss L being 
able to make these changes. I dont think its fair to say that Miss L was in financial hardship 
such that Santander should have waived the ERC. And waiving the ERC comes at a cost to 
Santander. Im not persuaded that its something Santander should fairly be required to do.
I think Santander considered Miss Ls circumstances before making a decision not to waive 
the ERC. I dont think it treated her unfairly. I know Miss L will be disappointed, but I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman