DRN-3320019
The complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), didnt do enough to help when she fell 
victim to a scam. She says Barclays should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
In April 2016, Mrs S invested in a company, whom I shall call Company C.
Company C was incorporated in February 2014 and the company invited investors to 
subscribe to bonds with the incentive of a 12% fixed interest rate per annum.
Bond holders were told their payments would be invested into Company C, who would then 
forward the funds to a connected American company over whom Company C would hold 
security.
The American company would use the money to buy and renovate distressed properties in 
America and once the properties were renovated, they would be rented out or sold. Income 
secured from rents or proceeds of the sale would then be passed back to the bond holders.
In April 2016, Mrs S made several payments totalling £220,000 from her bank account 
towards the investment. The amount was for two bonds. One bond was for £180,000 and 
one bond was for £40,000. The funds were paid to a foreign exchange provider where 
Company C held an account for the onward transmission to the American company.
At the end of 2016, Company C went into administration. Subsequently, a winding up 
process (liquidation) began in November 2017. There was also a formal investigation, where 
it was discovered that no funds were invested into the property development and the 
directors used the funds to pay other connected companies. As a result of the investigation, 
in February 2020, there was a High Court of Justice ruling whereby the two directors of 
Company C received directorship disqualifications. 
Mrs S wasnt able to recover any of her funds that she had invested. Mrs S, in seeking to 
recover her funds, brought a complaint about Barclays to our service. 
Mrs S considers that Barclays should have done more to prevent her losses and it should 
have been aware that Company C was struggling financially and had it told her she wouldnt 
have proceeded to invest.
Barclays ultimately didnt consider the matter was a scam. It argued that Company C had 
been incorporated for some years prior to Mrs S payments and then went into liquidation 
after the payments. Barclays in its submissions to our service also advised that it contacted 
Mrs S about the payments, with Mrs S confirming them as genuine. So Barclays didnt 
consider it should be held liable for the losses Mrs S suffered.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in declining to refund Mrs S.
 
Briefly summarised, they considered Barclays wasnt obligated to provide investment advice 
and at the time, had a limited duty to protect its customers from financial harm from fraud. 
They acknowledged that Barclays intervened on the payments (given they were high value 
amounts) but at the time, neither Barclays or Mrs S had any reason to think Company C 
wasnt genuine and that it was a scam and that Mrs S may suffer a future loss.
Mrs S has asked for a final decision on the matter, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has also raised her concerns about the foreign exchange provider Company C used 
and that she transferred funds to. That complaint is also being dealt with by me, under a 
separate complaint reference as it relates to the actions of a different entity. For clarity  this 
decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays when Mrs S made the payments in 2016.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Barclays should have done more to prevent Mrs S losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Barclays actions, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Since Mrs S made her payments back in 
April 2016, it has come to light  through formal investigations  that Company C didnt 
invest consumers money as promised. So I am satisfied it can be reasonably said Mrs S was 
the victim of a sophisticated and cruel scam and she has lost a lot of money which is now 
clearly having a significant impact on her life. 
But in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should reimburse her. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.
It is the case that Mrs S authorised the payments in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs S is responsible for the payments. 
That remains the case even though Mrs S was ultimately the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant times, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Barclays has provided records to show that the high value payments Mrs S 
made did trigger on its fraud detection systems, and it did intervene and question Mrs S 
about the payments. Due to the time that has passed, the call recordings are no longer 
available  which is understandable.
As Barclays intervened in the payments and spoke with Mrs S, the crux of this complaint 
centres on whether the intervention would likely have brought the scam to light at the time 
meaning Mrs S losses could have been prevented.
Given the payments happened around six years ago  I cant fairly determine what was, or 
wasnt said, when Barclays questioned Mrs S about the payments and their purpose. But in 
reviewing everything, and with the benefit of hindsight, I am still able to make a finding here. 
And my finding is that I am satisfied it is reasonable to conclude Barclays wouldnt have 
been able to prevent Mrs S losses at the time she made the payments.
It is also important to mention at this point that when considering the above, Barclays 
wouldnt have been obligated to provide advice about an investment a customer wishes to 
make. It only needed to be reassured that this was not a payment that appeared likely to 
result in financial harm to Mrs S. So when discussing the payments with Mrs S and the 
purpose of them being for an investment, Barclays was not required to conduct a detailed 
investigation into such things as the soundness of the investment or review all of Mrs S 
paperwork including applications and brochures or carry out any research into the financial 
affairs of Company C. I cannot reasonably expect it to have taken such steps.
In this case, I can see why, sadly, Mrs S thought everything was legitimate at the time. It was 
ultimately a sophisticated scam under the initial guise that everything was legitimate. 
Company C had been incorporated some years prior to Mrs S seeking to invest. Mrs S had 
also found out about the investment through a friend. And the paperwork Mrs S filled out and 
was provided with, were convincing and professional in appearance. While the paperwork 
doesnt hide that it is an unregulated investment  that status would not be unexpected for 
investment in an area such as property development. Ive seen nothing to evidence that 
Barclays ought to have had specific concerns here. And as I have mentioned, Barclays 
remit wouldnt have extended to providing advice to Mrs S about the investment. 
Importantly, it wasnt until later on that it was discovered that the funds customers 
transferred werent invested as promised. Neither Mrs S nor Barclays would have known at 
the time the payments were made that Company C were either acting fraudulently or 
intending to  this wasnt uncovered until sometime after through formal investigations  
leading to the disqualification of the directors of Company C by the High Court of Justice. 
All things considered, I can see why, Barclays would have been satisfied / reassured that 
Mrs S wasnt at risk of financial harm given the persuasiveness and professionalism of the 
scam.So I dont think Barclays, at the time, could have done anything more to prevent the losses 
Mrs S incurred and I can see why, despite Barclays questioning the payments the scam 
wasnt brought to light. It simply wasnt known when Mrs S made the payments that it was a 
scam. 
Recovery of the funds
Given Company C went into liquidation, there isnt anything further Barclays can do with any 
attempt to recover any funds. That is out of its control and Company Cs assets and liabilities 
lay with the Insolvency Practitioner. 
Overall
I am sorry to hear about the losses Mrs S suffered as a result of this particularly elaborate 
and complex scam. She is an innocent victim and has been left considerably out of pocket 
by a sophisticated and cruel deception. But having considered everything, I dont think 
Barclays could reasonably have prevented these losses. Nor can I see there are other 
grounds on which I could say that Barclays should, fairly and reasonably, bear the 
responsibility for the loss.
I say this because it followed Mrs S instructions to make the payments. Despite Barclays 
questioning Mrs S about the payments and their purpose, there wasnt anything to suggest 
to either Barclays or Mrs S at the time that the investment was fraudulent, or Mrs S was at 
risk of financial harm later on down the line. And unfortunately, there is nothing Barclays can 
do in terms of trying to recover any of the funds for Mrs S given Company C went into 
liquidation. Mrs S may look to alternative means to see if she can recover any funds lost. 
Mrs S may also wish to explore whether the Financial Services Compensation Scheme is 
available to her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
  
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman