DRN-3785975
The complaint
This complaint is about Coutts & Company, trading as Coutts (Coutts) decision not to 
renew or extend a mortgage held by F.
What happened
In July 2016, F took out a mortgage for £1,000,000 with Coutts that was due to mature in 
December 2019. F requested an extension to the term, but Coutts said it wasnt prepared to 
do this. So, in January 2020, F offered to repay £800,000 if they could borrow £200,000 in 
order to renovate the property before selling it. 
Coutts accepted Fs proposal and offered a mortgage of £200,000 over two years. But, 
shortly after, the coronavirus, Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic) hit and F wanted to delay 
the new arrangement. F thought it would be difficult to complete the renovations during the 
pandemic and they were concerned about the impact it might have on the market.
Coutts considered Fs reasons for delaying, but said it was not prepared to extend the 
mortgage for £1,000,000 in the interim. It suggested that F seek the mortgage they required 
elsewhere. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint, but they didnt think Coutts had done anything 
wrong. As F disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Fs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Before I explain my findings further, I note that F has asked that I listen to a number of call 
recordings theyve provided before deciding the case. Our investigator explained that the 
ombudsman would decide whether it was necessary to listen to them all or not. Ive thought 
about Fs request, but this is a fairly straight forward complaint, and both sides have made 
their points clearly. Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied I dont need to listen to all of 
the phone calls that took place to fairly decide this complaint. 
F was due to repay their mortgage in December 2019. Instead, F proposed extending the 
term or taking a new mortgage for the same amount. I understand their intention was to 
renovate the property and sell it at a later date. Coutts reviewed what F had said but didnt 
agree to either proposal because there were both affordability and serviceability concerns.
F said the property value is significantly greater than the outstanding mortgage amount, so 
they didnt understand the problem. They just wanted to do all they could to maximise the 
value before selling the property. While I appreciate Coutts decision would have been 
disappointing for F, their proposal was considered, and I cant ask Coutts to do more than 
that. Coutts is entitled to decide when it is and isnt prepared to lend to its customers.  
Coutts continued to try and resolve the issue with F and eventually accepted a proposal to 
pay back £800,000 and borrow £200,000 in order to complete the renovations. I know F 
wasnt entirely happy with this, but it does appear that Coutts was trying to reach an 
arrangement that would be acceptable to both parties. 
It was then Fs decision not to proceed with the new arrangement because they were 
concerned about the impact of the pandemic. I think Fs concerns were understandable given 
the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic at the time, but that doesnt mean Coutts would be 
expected to extend the offer indefinitely. F should have already settled the mortgage account 
in December 2019  prior to the pandemic. So, if F chose not to proceed with the new 
arrangement Coutts had offered, then F would be expected to repay the outstanding 
mortgage balance in full. 
F says they have continued to pay around £10,000 towards the interest on the loan every 
month since their mortgage matured  I understand Coutts agreed to roll over the existing 
loan until 28 May 2021. Coutts didnt have to do this. It was still entitled to expect F to repay 
their mortgage in full. And while I appreciate F may think its ability to meet the interest 
payments during this period demonstrated the mortgage was still affordable, Coutts had 
already explained why it wasnt prepared to extend the mortgage or offer a new one for the 
same sum. Fs ability to make the interest payments in the meantime doesnt change that. 
In summary, Ive considered everything F has said, but I think Coutts has been fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ultimately, F didnt settle the mortgage account when they 
should have, and Coutts was under no obligation to extend the term of the mortgage or to 
offer a new one. So, I dont think Coutts needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman