DRN-3932986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) has declined their claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy.
Mr S brings this complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs S and so I have referred to Mr S 
throughout.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr S made a claim under the storm damage section of his home insurance 
policy. He reported to Covea that the felt covering on his garage roof was damaged during a 
storm.
Covea instructed a surveyor to attend the property and assess the damage. He concluded 
that the internal roof timbers were suffering from wet rot caused by a natural breakdown of 
materials. Covea said that the storm highlighted the problem rather than being the cause of 
the damage and declined the claim.
Mr S didnt agree with Coveas decision and complained. He thought that the storm had 
caused the felt roofing to come away. 
Covea said that the photos taken by its surveyor showed that the roof joists were wet and 
had developed mould. It said that this compromised the stability of the roof covering. It said 
that the ingress of water occurred over a period of time and caused the roof covering to 
come away. It referred to its policy which says that it excludes damage caused by wear and 
tear or maintenance. 
Covea then sent a second surveyor to inspect the damage in June 2022. His report 
concluded that the felt roofing was old but hadnt perished and that although the roof joists 
were wet there was no rot. Covea maintained its decision to decline the claim and so Mr S 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator noted the two differing reports obtained by Covea and didnt think that 
Covea had acted fairly in declining the claim. Mr S accepted our investigators view, but 
Covea didnt. It said that the second surveyor had reviewed the original photos and 
concluded that there had been a natural breakdown of materials and that its decision to 
decline the claim was correct. The matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it.
Ive looked at Mr Ss home insurance policy and it includes storm damage. The policy goes 
on to say that Covea will not pay for any loss or damage arising from wear and tear or 
damage that happens gradually over time. Its clear, therefore, that Mr Ss policy covers 
damage caused by a storm but will not cover any damage that is caused by a natural 
breakdown of materials. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld. I will look at each point separately.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Mr S is not sure exactly which day the damage occurred but says he reported it as soon as 
he was aware of it. Ive looked at weather reports on the day Mr S reported the damage and 
seen reports of a named storm shortly before this. Im satisfied that there were storm 
conditions around the time of the damage and Covea dont appear to dispute this.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 
Strong winds are known to cause structural damage, and there were strong gusts around the 
time of the claim. Im satisfied the damage to the felt garage roof is consistent with that 
typically caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
Mr S accepts that his garage is old but says that he regularly inspects it and hadnt noticed 
any damage to the felt roof before the storm. He believes it was the storm that caused the 
felt roof to lift. 
There are two experts reports in this case, and Ive carefully reviewed them both, along with 
the photos and all the additional comments provided by Covea and Mr S. Covea rely on 
these reports to show that the roof covering was suffering from a natural breakdown of 
material.
Covea say in its final response letter to Mr S that the ingress of water into the garage over 
time caused the attachment between the roof and the garage to fail. So, it seems to be 
suggesting that the internal damage caused the felt roof to lift. However, its not clear how 
the internal damage occurred as theres no explanation by either surveyor. Neither is there 
any indication where the ingress of water might have come from.
The two surveyors reports and photos are very different. They are some four months apart 
and Mr S carried out a temporary repair and cleaned the garage between the visits which 
might explain some of the differences. However, I think there are significant issues which 
remain unexplained. 
The first report focuses on the wet rot and mould on the inside of the garage and doesnt 
specifically mention the condition of the roof covering at all. It is a repair of the roof covering 
that Mr S is claiming for. The later report said that the roof covering hadnt perished. Its 
difficult therefore to see how either report supports Coveas position that the felt roof was suffering from a natural breakdown of materials.
There is also contradictory evidence in the reports about the condition of the internal roof 
joists and decking boards. Both state that they are saturated, but unlike the first surveyor, 
the second says that there is no evidence of wet rot. Covea says that rotting and moulding 
like this doesnt suddenly appear and disappear within a short period of time. Whilst this may 
be correct, it hasnt explained how the internal problems with the roof occurred if the roof 
covering hadnt perished.
The first report concludes that the damage is caused by a natural breakdown of materials  
although doesnt relate this specifically to the roof covering. The second report doesnt 
mention a cause of the damage at all. Covea has said that the second surveyor told it that 
having reviewed the original photos, he was in agreement that the external roof was subject 
to a natural breakdown of materials. However, this is not what he says in his report. In fact, 
the report specifically says that although the roof felt is old, it doesnt appear to have 
perished.
Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim, as Covea has done 
here, then the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. I dont think Covea has done this. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that there was damage to the roof covering before the 
storm  or in fact that there was any external damage to the roof. The only evidence 
presented relates to damage to the internal roof  with no explanation of how this might have 
occurred or how it relates to the external roof. 
Im therefore not satisfied that Covea has shown that a natural breakdown of materials was 
the cause of the damage to the external roof covering. On balance I think that the storm was 
more likely to have been the main cause and I dont think Covea acted fairly when it declined 
the claim. I think that Covea should look again at Mr Ss claim for storm damage without 
reference to the exclusion clause it previously relied upon.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance Plc to reconsider 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim for damage caused by the storm in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman