DRN-1283990
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Ms M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland made Ms M aware that the PPI was optional, but that she still chose 
to take it, even if she doesnt now remember this so many years later. I can see theres a 
PPI application form which asks for information about health and which sets out the costs. 
Ms M has signed this and, given that its a fairly straightforward form with clear information, 
its likely shed have understood what she was signing.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms M, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Ms Ms particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms Ms situation at the time: 
Its likely Ms M was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Ms M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Ms M would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs  and in fact, from what shes told us, she didnt have 
savings at the time anyway. So this all would have put Ms M in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Ms M would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Ms M to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Ms M would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Ms M would have been affected by any of these. And shed be paying for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman