DRN-3991225
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted unreasonably when it closed his bank 
account.
What happened
Mr M says following a transaction being declined on his bank account debit card in mid-
August 2022 he telephoned BOS, after visiting his local branch, who informed him his debit 
card had been compromised and he needed a new card. Mr M says he became frustrated 
with the member of staff who was giving misleading information and unclear as to why his 
debit card was being cancelled and the call was terminated by the agent. 
Mr M says he then called back, and the advisor said his debit card had been potentially 
compromised and he needed to go into his branch with photographic identification, which 
wasnt what he was told previously. 
At this point Mr M lodged a complaint regarding the misinformation hed been given with no 
explanation what transactions had compromised his bank debit card. Mr M says a few days 
later he then received a letter advising him his bank account would be closed. 
Mr M doesnt feel he has done anything to warrant the closure of his bank account and it 
was the two members of BOSs staff that were rude to him. Mr M wants BOS to apologise 
and reinstate his bank account and compensate him for the trouble and upset this has 
caused him. 
BOS says it has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the bank account when it 
informed Mr M it was closing his bank account, as it deemed Mr Ms behaviour during the 
telephone call to its staff in mid-August 2022 to be both offensive and abusive. 
Mr M wasnt happy with BOSs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says it wasnt the role of this service to tell businesses what internal processes it 
must set when it decides it wants to terminate a banking relationship. 
The investigator says having listened to the phone calls in mid-August 2022 she felt Mr M 
had become progressively frustrated and shouldnt have said what he did to the members of 
staff. The investigator felt BOS were simply trying to advise Mr M what was needed of him 
going forward regarding the flag on his debit card. 
The investigator didnt feel BOS had acted unfairly when it closed his bank account for the 
reasons it had explained to him. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if BOS acted fairly when it took the decision to 
terminate Mr Ms banking relationship. 
Mr Ms complaint centres around the fact BOS acted unreasonably when it took the decision 
to terminate his bank account as a result of a telephone conversation he had with its 
members of staff. 
Mr M says he was given conflicting information as why his debit card was potentially 
compromised and the member of staff whom he initially spoke to was, in his words stupid, 
and hes not been told why his debit card had been compromised back in August 2022. 
The first thing to say is its not my role to tell banks like BOS how it must apply its 
procedures when deciding it wants to terminate a banking relationship. The reason given 
here by BOS, is because Mr M became abusive and offensive during a telephone call to a 
member of its staff in August 2022 and that is covered in its terms and conditions of his bank 
account. 
Having listened to a number of phone calls including the telephone call in mid-August 2022, 
it is evident Mr M becomes increasingly frustrated with a member of BOSs staff and by his 
own admission says she is stupid and refers to ethnicity as a potential reason why. 
I can understand it might have been frustrating for Mr M to perhaps have received what he 
felt were mixed messages for the reason why his card needed to be cancelled, following it 
being flagged and without any explanation as to what transaction it related to -but its fair to 
say both members of BOSs staff were simply trying to explain what it had been informed by 
the card provider. 
Here BOS have taken the view the way Mr M conducted himself on the phone with its staff 
was unacceptable and under Section M of its terms and conditions, it is entitled to close a 
customers bank account for this reason and its not for me to say it cant. Afterall BOS are a 
commercial enterprise and its not for me to tell it whom it does business with if it feels its 
terms and conditions have been breached. Given the evidence I have seen I am satisfied 
that was the case here.
With that in mind I cant say BOS have acted unreasonably in taking the action it has here 
and while Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BOS. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman