DRN-3947060
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays when he applied to Nationwide Building Society for additional 
mortgage borrowing. He says interest rates increased during the delays. Mr J asks for an 
apology and compensation.
What happened
Mr J has a mortgage with Nationwide. He wanted to take out additional borrowing for home 
improvements. Mr J says he called Nationwide to check his age wouldnt be a problem, 
before making an online application in late May 2022 and sending the requested documents, 
such as bank statements and proof of earnings. Weeks passed and he chased Nationwide 
only to be told he hadnt completed the application and would have to start a new 
application. Interest rates had increased and Mr J had to choose a higher rate. He says he 
was asked for unnecessary information, and was then told he needed to attend a financial 
review and start a new application as the lending term would go past his retirement age.
Mr J says he had to find alternative funding and interest rates have increased.
Nationwide said Mr J chose a term that went up to his stated retirement date. It said it 
needed further information from Mr J about his income. Due to the time taken to provide this, 
the term went over Mr Js stated retirement age. This meant it had to provide advice on the 
application. Nationwide sent a cheque for £100 for the time taken to respond to Mr Js 
complaint.
Our investigator said while Nationwide should have told Mr J at the outset that hed need to 
make the application on an advised basis, it hadnt caused delays. Mr J hadnt completed 
the first application and Nationwide was entitled to ask for further documents. Mr J chose not 
to receive advice, which would have allowed him to proceed with the application.
Mr J didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to re-consider 
Mr Js complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says he was told by Nationwide that there would be no problem provided the term didnt 
go past his 70th birthday. Nationwide says the only call it could find was in February 2022. 
Nationwide provided a recording of this call. 
Mr J told Nationwide his age, but said he didnt intend to retire for some time. He said he 
was thinking of a loan term of five years. Nationwide said its maximum lending age was 75. 
It said the amount Mr J wanted to borrow was plausible given the loan to value. It said an 
affordability assessment would be required. 
Mr J started an application for additional borrowing on 31 May 2022. He completed an 
application on 24 June 2022. This said his planned retirement age was 70. The term he 
applied for took the term up to the month in which hed reach his stated retirement age.
Nationwide reviewed Mr Js application and documents and sent a message to him on 30 
June 2022. It asked for clarification about Mr Js bonus/commission. The message also said 
Mr J couldnt proceed with an application for borrowing into retirement without advice, and 
gave him a number to contact. 
Mr J provided a letter from his employer about his bonus/commission in early July 2022. He 
didnt contact Nationwide about taking advice. 
Mr J contacted Nationwide at the end of July 2022 to find out what was happening. 
Nationwides notes say Mr Js application couldnt progress as he needed to take advice and 
this should be explained to him. However, Nationwide said it couldnt show that it gave Mr J 
this information.
Nationwide sent further messages to Mr J saying that he needed to take advice on 23 
August 2022 and on three occasions in September 2022.
Did Nationwide make an error?
Mr J says Nationwides requests for further information werent clear, and he had to call to 
understand what was required. He doesnt consider it was necessary to provide clarification 
about his commission and bonus, and says he provided ample proof he could pay the 
mortgage. However, Nationwide is required by rules on mortgage regulation to assess 
affordability before agreeing to lend. Its needs to review the information it receives and can 
ask for more information and evidence if it needs to do so. Nationwide said it asked for 
clarification about Mr Js payslips as commission and bonuses are not always treated the 
same way by employers. I dont think Nationwides requests were unreasonable.
But in any case, this wasnt the main cause of the problem with Mr Js application. The 
problem was that the term he applied for (six years and six months) went past his stated 
retirement age. 
When Mr J started the application (on 31 May 2022) the term he chose would have ended 
just before his 70th birthday. But by late June 2022 this wasnt the case. This meant 
Nationwide needed Mr J to attend an appointment with a mortgage adviser. Nationwide sent 
a message to Mr J saying this at the end of June 2022. 
Mr J says he was told this wasnt necessary. But having listened to the February call, I dont 
think Nationwide gave Mr J incorrect information. Mr J said he was thinking of a term of 
about five years  at that point his retirement age of 70 was more than six years away. When 
he brought the complaint to us, Mr J said he was told by Nationwide that he wouldnt need 
an assessment of his income in retirement provided the borrowing term didnt go past his 
70th birthday. That was correct.
While I understand Mr Js frustration, I dont think it was wrong or unfair for Nationwide to 
ask him to take mortgage advice. Its lending policy required this because the loan term Mr J 
applied for went past his stated retirement age. 
Nationwide accepts it should have told Mr J this at the end of July 2022, when he called 
about his application. And it accepts it took too long to respond to Mr Js complaint. It sent a 
cheque for £100 as compensation. When considering if this is fair, Ive taken into account 
that Nationwide told Mr J at the end of June 2022 that hed need to take mortgage advice as 
the term went into his retirement. It told him this again in August and September 2022, however Mr J chose not to take advice. In the circumstances, I think £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the effect of Nationwides error. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman