DRN-4433692
The complaint
Mr D complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with his claim against a group, 
private medical insurance policy.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D has membership of a group, private medical insurance 
policy via his employer. In February 2023, Mr D contacted BUPA about a claim for his 
son. BUPA explained the relevant parameters of eligible treatment. On                          
15 February 2023, Mr D had an initial phone consultation with a provider about his son. 
He paid an invoice of £360 in relation to that. Subsequently, there was an assessment 
and Mr D paid the provider £2,000 in settlement of the second invoice. 
On 19 March 2023, Mr D sent BUPA a note from his sons doctor and two invoices, 
which he said required settlement. On 28 March 2023, BUPA authorised the claim. It 
subsequently sent an e-mail to Mr D which said that it would reimburse him the £2,000 
and pay part of the invoice for £360. On 18 April 2023, Mr D phoned BUPA to chase 
payment of the £2,000. BUPA later told Mr D that it had paid the £2,000 directly to the 
provider. Mr D complained about that. 
Mr D wants BUPA to settle his claim with interest and pay compensation for his 
inconvenience.  
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, she didnt recommend 
that the complaint be upheld. Mr D didnt agree with the investigator and provided some 
further information. The investigator reconsidered the matter. She recommended that    
Mr Ds complaint be upheld. The investigator said that BUPA should pay Mr D £2,000, 
plus interest. She didnt think it was fair for BUPA to ask Mr D to recoup the payment 
from the provider. The investigator thought that BUPAs offer of compensation of £200 in 
relation to Mr Ds inconvenience was fair and reasonable.  
Mr D agreed with the investigator, but BUPA didnt. It said that Mr D hadnt provided a 
receipt for the payment of £2,000, hed only provided a receipt for £360. So, thats why it 
paid the provider directly. BUPA said that its paid the claim, so to duplicate the payment 
by paying Mr D directly would be outside Mr Ds policy benefits or require it to wait for a 
refund from the provider. BUPA said that paying a claim twice doesnt seem a fair 
outcome for both parties. 
The investigator considered what BUPA said but didnt change her view. She said that 
BUPA hadnt made it clear to Mr D that it required evidence that hed paid the provider 
£2,000 and that BUPA agreed to pay Mr D. The investigator said that BUPAs final 
response to Mr D wasnt clear. She said that Mr D had provided evidence that hed paid 
the provider. The investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Mr D to recoup the money 
from the provider. 
BUPA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. I uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.     
The membership terms provide that in many cases BUPA has arrangements with providers 
about how much they charge and how it pays them. The terms say that in most cases, 
BUPA pays the provider directly but may pay the member directly.  
I think that theres been considerable confusion in this case. Based on what Ive seen, 
when Mr D first sent the two invoices to BUPA on 19 March 2023, only the invoice for 
£360 showed that it had been paid. In correspondence with this service, BUPA has said 
that it should have asked Mr D to provide proof that hed paid the invoice for £2,000 before 
either paying him or paying the provider. I think thats right. 
If BUPA had asked Mr D to provide proof that hed paid the provider £2,000, he could have 
provided it. I think that BUPA acted unfairly and unreasonably in paying the provider 
directly without giving Mr D the opportunity to show that hed already paid the invoice. 
Mr D has now provided this service with a screenshot of his payment to the provider and a 
receipted invoice for £2,000. Im satisfied that Mr D paid the invoice for £2,000.
In the particular circumstances that arose here, I dont think that its fair or reasonable for 
BUPA to direct Mr D to ask for a refund from the provider. I think its right that the 
responsibility for recouping an incorrect payment to the provider lies with BUPA. Thats 
because BUPA made an error in paying the provider without asking Mr D to provide 
evidence that he had already made the payment. And it has the benefit of a continuing 
relationship with the provider, so its likely to be easier for BUPA to recoup an 
overpayment than it would be for Mr D. 
I think that BUPA should reimburse Mr D for the payment he made directly to the provider 
and pay interest on that amount, from the date of Mr Ds claim to the date of settlement.  
BUPAs handling of Mr Ds claim caused him distress and inconvenience in that he was 
put to the trouble of pursuing this matter. I think that BUPAs final response to Mr D on      
2 May 2023 caused further confusion. I think that Mr D could reasonably expect from 
BUPAs final decision that hed receive the payment shortly: BUPA said that the claim in 
question is in the final stages of being processed. BUPA has told this service that at the 
time of its final response to Mr D, it noted that there was a task on its system to assess the 
claim and pay Mr D. Subsequently, it decided that without proof of payment from Mr D, it 
should send payment directly to the provider. I think that BUPAs change of approach was 
confusing for Mr D.
BUPA has already sent Mr D a cheque for £200 in relation to his distress and 
inconvenience. Considering everything, I think thats fair and reasonable. In reaching that 
view Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by BUPAs errors in this case. If that cheque is now out of date,   
Mr D should ask BUPA for a replacement. Putting things right
In order to put things right BUPA should:
reimburse the payment of £2,000 Mr D made to the provider and 
pay interest on the £2,000 at the simple rate of 8% a year, from the date Mr D 
made his claim, to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BUPA to take off tax from this interest. BUPA must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BUPA Insurance Limited should now take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman