DRN-3018455
The complaint
Mr N complains about refurbishment charges Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) 
asked him to pay for a car he had been financing through them. He also complains that he 
was told to keep the car taxed and insured until it was sold and that Close Brothers caused 
him financial difficulties when they failed to reinstate a direct debit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the damage charges
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr N responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Close Brothers agreed to remove some of the charges, but the following charges remained. 
Ive kept the original item numbers for ease of reference:
2. Scratch on quarter panel/rear wing  scratch/paint defect 26  125 mm £114.80
3. O/S Front wheel damage  damage 100+ mm (standard alloy) - £40.95
4. O/S Front wheel damage  damage 100+ mm (standard alloy) - £40.95
5. Front door damage  scratch to 25mm (through paint) - £114.80
6. Front grille cracked/broken/missing - £100
7. Front door scratch  scratch/paint defect over 125 mm - £0
8. Rear bumper scratch  scratch/pain defect 125 mm - £97.30
10. N/S Front wheel damage  damage 100+ mm (standard alloy - £40.95
11. Wing  scratch  scratch/paint defect 26-125 mm (through paint) - £114.80
12. N/S Rear wheel damage  damage 100+ mm (standard alloy) - £40.95
The investigator didnt think the damage to items 2, 5 and 11 were evidenced in the 
inspectors photographs and I agree. Its not clear whether these scuffs are scratches and 
they certainly dont seem to be through the paintwork so I would agree. The BVRLA 
guidance is meant to be applied to cars that are new when supplied. This car was about nine 
years old. So, whilst I dont think Close Brothers were wrong to apply the BVRLA guidance I 
think they needed to do so with the age of the vehicle in mind and it would be fair to expect 
there to have been some pre-existing marks and blemishes on the car when supplied. 
The BVRLA guidance says that scuffs to wheels shouldnt exceed 50mm around the 
circumference. I think the damage to all four wheels does exceed that tolerance and I 
therefore think the charges Close Brothers have levied for wheel refurbishment are fair 
(items 3,4,10 and 12).
Item 7 has no charge attached to it, so I make no comment.
There is clearly damage to the front grille (item 6) and thats beyond BVRLA guidance. I 
think that charge has been fairly applied.
Item 8 shows a significant scratch to the rear bumper/wheel arch. Its beyond the BVRLA 
guidance as its far in excess of the 25mm allowance. Its therefore been fairly levied.
So, I think Close Brothers should waive all charges except for items 3,4,6,8,10 and 12. The 
total charge remaining is therefore £361.10.
the direct debits
Close Brothers do not dispute failing to reinstate Mr Ns direct debits on two occasions.
That would clearly have inconvenienced him as he would have expected payments to be 
made against his account automatically and there may have been some delay before he 
noticed that.
I would agree that Close Brothers should therefore pay him compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and in in line with our published guidelines I think £100 is reasonable.
They should also ensure that any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file, 
during the period when his direct debits should have been reinstated but were not, are 
removed. Im persuaded payments were most likely missed as a result of this mistake.
But I dont think it would be fair to suggest Mr N faced financial difficulties because of those 
mistakes. He should have been aware of his responsibility to pay the instalments and I think 
its fair to suggest he would have noticed when payments were not made, especially given 
the fact that money was understandably tight at the time.
tax and insuranceI understand Mr Ns testimony that he was told to keep the car taxed and insured even after 
it was collected. Unfortunately, the phone call records are of no assistance here as they 
arent complete. Close Brothers dont agree that Mr N would be told to keep the car taxed 
and insured and, on balance, I think that was unlikely. Im not therefore asking Close 
Brothers to take any further action in respect of that issue.
 
Putting things right
Close Brothers will need to remove the charges Ive listed above but they may still make a 
charge of £361.10 to refurbish items 3,4,6,8,10 and 12.
Theyll also need to pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when they failed to reinstate his direct debits. And, they should remove any adverse 
reports made to the credit reference agencies.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
remove charges from the refurbishment invoice leaving only those for items 
3,4,6,8,10 and 12, totalling £361.10;
pay Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced when direct debits were not reinstated;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in relation to 
missed payments when direct debits were not reinstated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman