DRN-4236050
The complaint
Mr H complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (UKI) and their decision to 
settle his claim on a fault basis.
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. Unfortunately, on 8 June 2022, Mr 
H was involved in a road traffic accident in a local car park. So, he contacted UKI to notify 
them about this.
Mr H initially explained on the initial notification call that hed been reversing out of his 
parking space when hed hit a stationary third-party car parked next to him in a cross-
hatched area where parking wasnt permitted. So, he didnt think he was liable for the 
accident, or any of the damage caused. On this call, UKI explained that the way a car was 
parked didnt impact liability and so, they thought Mr H was at fault. 
Mr H disputed this. And he called UKI back, explaining the third-party car was in fact 
reversing when the accident happened and so, he this proved the third-party was at fault. Mr 
H also provided photographic evidence, alongside a short video clip he felt evidenced the 
third-party admitting they were reversing.
UKI considered Mr Hs evidence and testimony. And they put this to the third-party insurer 
(TPI). But the TPI refuted this information and provided a witness statement they had 
obtained that they felt supported their insureds testimony that Mr H was at fault. UKI 
considered this and took the decision to settle the claim on a fault basis, making Mr H aware 
of this shortly after. Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think UKI were fair to settle the claim on a fault basis. He disputed the witness 
statement the TPI provided, and he felt UKI hadnt placed enough emphasis on his 
testimony, or the video clip he provided. So, he wanted UKI to overturn their decision and 
record the claim as non-fault, to ensure his no claims bonus and future premium prices 
werent negatively affected.
UKI responded to Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. They thought they had acted fairly 
when settling the claim on a fault basis, considering the information available to them. But 
they did think they couldve done more to keep Mr H updated during this process and so 
paid Mr H £25 to recognise any inconvenience this caused. Mr H remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the £25 
payment to recognise UKIs failure to respond to Mr H within a reasonable time frame was a 
fair one, considering the impact this had. And although they recognised Mr Hs strong belief 
regarding liability of the accident, they thought UKI were able to settle the claim as they saw 
fit. And in this situation, our investigator thought UKI had considered the claim, and all the 
information provided, fairly when reaching their decision. So, our investigator didnt think UKI 
needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought the evidence hed provided, including the video clip he sent, 
made it reasonably clear the third-party was at fault and that the witness statement was 
fraudulent. So, he maintained his belief that the claim should be settled on a non-fault basis, 
and that his no claims bonus and premium prices should be updated to reflect this. Our 
investigators view remained the same and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note part of UKIs complaint response referred to the failure to communicate with Mr H 
effectively. And they paid Mr H £25 to recognise this failure. I cant see that Mr H has 
disputed this payment for this aspect of the complaint and so, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume this has been accepted and this aspect of the complaint resolved. But for 
completeness, I think this £25 was a fair payment that falls in line with our services 
approach as I think it adequately recognises any inconvenience Mr H wouldve felt waiting 
for a call back, while also taking into consideration the actual impact on Mr H, as I note he 
didnt chase UKI for further communication during the delay. So, I wont be discussing the 
merits of this part of the complaint in any further detail or recommending any further 
payment.
And before I discuss the merits of Mr Hs complaint about the way the claim was settled, I 
want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I recognise Mr H feels strongly 
about the circumstances of the accident, and who was to blame for the damage caused to 
both cars. As Mr H feels the third-party was responsible, I can understand why hed feel 
unfairly treated by UKI who, as his insurer, chose to settle the claim in the third-partys 
favour. And I can understand why hed be left frustrated at the impact this decision had on 
his no claims bonus and so, future insurance premiums prices.
But for me to say UKI should do something more than they have already, such as overturn 
their claim decision or reinstate Mr Hs full no claims bonus, I first need to be satisfied 
theyve done something wrong that hasnt already been adequately compensated for. So, Id 
need to be satisfied UKI failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held 
when they settled the claim on a fault basis. Or, if I think UKI did act within these, Id need to 
be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
And before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to 
explain what Ive been able to consider, and how. Its not my role, or the role of our service, 
to re-underwrite the claim, as we dont have the expertise to do so. So, I wont be 
speculating on how I think the claim shouldve been settled. Instead, it is my role to consider 
the actions UKI took when settling the claim, to ensure theyve acted fairly and reasonably. 
And when considering this, where necessary, Ive thought about their actions against what I 
think another insurer would most likely have done in the same situation.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held. These explain under the section 
titled Our rights and your obligations that UKI are entitled to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name or in the name of any other person covered under this policy. So, I think UKI were able to take over, and settle, any 
claim made against Mr Hs insurance policy, without Mr H needing to agree with their 
decision. And because of this, I dont think I can say UKI acted outside of the terms and 
conditions when settling the claim on a fault basis.
But as Ive explained above, I must also be satisfied UKI acted fairly when taking this 
decision. And Id expect UKI to consider any and all of the testimony and information 
provided by both Mr H and the third-party before coming to this decision.
In this situation, I can see UKI provided the TPI with Mr Hs testimony and the photographic 
and video evidence he supplied. So, Im satisfied UKI put Mr Hs challenge to the TPI 
reasonably, as Id expect them to do.
And I can see following this, the TPI provided comments on the video footage Mr H supplied 
as well as a witness statement supporting the third-party version of events. As this was new 
information, Id expect UKI to consider this before deciding on how to settle the claim. And 
Im satisfied they did.
In this situation, I think UKI were fair to take into consideration the information the TPI 
provided alongside the differing version of events Mr H provided on the initial notification call 
when he said the third-party was parked, compared to his later allegation that the third party 
was reversing.
And when all this information is considered together, I think UKI were fair to decide that the 
claim would most likely be found in favour of the third-party should it progress to court, 
considering the third-party, the witness statement and Mr H all stated the third-party car was 
stationary. And I think another insurer would most likely have concluded the same based on 
the above. 
And in a situation such as this where a claim is unlikely to be defended successfully, an 
insurer would be expected to mitigate the costs of the claim and so, I wouldnt expect UKI to 
challenge the claim and incur legal costs here. So, I think UKI have acted fairly when 
deciding to the settle the claim on a fault basis on this occasion and I dont think they need to 
do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I appreciate this means Mr Hs 
no claims discount, and future premium prices, are likely to be impacted. Ive carefully 
thought about the impact this will have on Mr H, both emotionally and financially. But for me 
to say UKI should do something more, I need to be satisfied theyve made a mistake here. 
And while I do recognise Mr Hs opinion that they have, considering the video clip he feels 
shows the third-party admitting they were reversing, I dont think the length of this clip 
provides fair and reasonable context of why this was said, or what it referred to, considering 
it was a very short snippet of a larger conversation held at the time of the accident. So, I 
dont think UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably when deciding the settle the claim on a 
fault basis, even with this video clip available to them.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about U K Insurance Limited  
trading as Darwin.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman