DRN-3638430
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited only paid part of her claim.
What happened
Mrs Ws insurance policy was renewed with Advantage Insurance around October 2020. 
During the previous policy year, Mrs W added an additional driver to the policy, who was 
also included during the renewal. Mrs W later made a claim after her car was stolen from 
outside her home.
Advantage Insurance said that, at the time of renewal, Mrs W hadnt declared that the 
additional driver had an endorsement added on their licence during the previous policy year. 
So, under the relevant law, the insurer said it was entitled to settle the claim in proportion to 
the level of premium Mrs W actually paid  instead of what she wouldve paid had the 
endorsement been declared. Advantage Insurance says Mrs W only paid 61% of the 
reviewed premium, so it would only pay out 61% of the settlement.
Advantage Insurance later established that it had incorrectly paid a higher settlement figure 
instead of the proportionate amount it intended to pay  the insurer valued the car at around 
£54,000, but paid Mrs Ws finance settlement figure of around £49,000 (instead of the circa 
£33,000 it intended to pay). Although the insurer said it would attempt to recall the over 
payment, my understanding is that it has been unable to do so. 
Advantage Insurance also recognised poor claim handling and service issues across several 
months of the claim. So it decided to pay Mrs W a total of £205 compensation.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us as she wants the insurer to pay the claim in full. At this 
point, Advantage Insurance told us that it wouldnt have insured the additional driver at all, 
so it wouldve looked to void the policy in these circumstances. The insurer added that, by 
partially settling the claim instead, Mrs W has received a favourable outcome to her claim. 
Our investigator concluded that Advantage Insurance had acted unfairly. The investigator 
referred to the relevant law and the insurers evidence to conclude that Advantage Insurance 
wouldnt have covered the additional driver at all. The investigator pointed out that, under the 
rules and in these circumstances, the policy can only be voided if it wouldnt have been 
offered by the insurer on any terms at all. 
The investigator was satisfied that Advantage Insurance wouldve covered Mrs W as the 
sole policy holder and asked the insurer to provide us details of the premium it wouldve 
asked Mrs W to pay, if she was the only insured party. Advantage Insurance was unable to 
provide this information. The investigator couldnt therefore make a finding on whether the 
proportionate settlement was fair and so decided that Advantage Insurance shouldve paid 
the claim in full. 
Advantage Insurance didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage Insurance says Mrs W failed to take reasonable care because she didnt update 
the insurer to let it know that the additional driver had an endorsement on their licence. 
Advantage Insurance points out that the renewal documents prompted Mrs W to notify it if 
any information was inaccurate. 
From the information the insurer provided, I can see Mrs W added the additional driver 
during the policy year 2019-2020. The renewal documents for the year 2020-2021 prompts 
Mrs W to check all the information and inform the insurer of any inaccuracies. The policy 
terms also remind Mrs W of her duty to take reasonable care. Additionally, the statement of 
insurance specifically points to endorsements that the insurer needs to be made aware of. It 
seems the additional driver received an endorsement in 2020  Mrs W didnt inform 
Advantage Insurance of this at the time of renewal, so Im satisfied she didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
For Advantage to take any action at all, it needs to show it either wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or would have done so on different terms. Advantage Insurance hasnt been 
consistent in its stance when explaining what it wouldve done differently had Mrs W notified 
it of the additional drivers endorsement. The insurer says it wouldnt have covered the 
additional driver, but also adds that Mrs W only paid 61% of the premium - based on what 
the premium wouldve been had she not made the misrepresentation. However, this second 
stance seems to include the additional driver on the policy.
The underwriting data the insurer has provided is enough for me to conclude that Advantage 
Insurance wouldnt have covered the additional driver at all. So Im satisfied this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. Advantage Insurance hasnt indicated whether it thinks 
Mrs Ws misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. By paying the claim on a 
proportionate basis, Advantage Insurance appears to have decided that Mr Ws 
misrepresentation was careless  I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Advantage Insurance where the misrepresentation 
was careless. The insurer says it looked to void the policy but decided instead to pay a 
proportionate settlement based on the premium Mrs W had paid. But I think the insurer acted 
unfairly here. CIDRA says the insurance contract can only be voided because of careless 
misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have offered the policy on any terms at all. And 
while CIDRA says an insurer needs to settle claims proportionately where theres been 
careless misrepresentation, Advantage Insurance hasnt been able to demonstrate that Mrs W paid a lower premium that she should have, so its not fair and reasonable for the 
insurer to settle claim proportionately  Ill explain further. 
Mrs W was the main insured party and her car insurance policy for the previous year was 
with Advantage Insurance as the underwriter. I can see from the documents that there were 
no changes to Mrs Ws details around the time of renewal  she was insuring the same car, 
living at the same address etc. So I think its likely that the insurer wouldve been in a 
position to cover Mrs W only. So Im satisfied that Advantage Insurance could have offered 
the policy on different terms and, in my opinion, it wouldve been fairer for the insurer to treat 
the policy as if the additional driver had been removed. This is also in line with this services 
established approach to these types of complaints. 
Its unclear whether removing the additional driver wouldve resulted in a difference in 
premium. We asked Advantage Insurance to provide a figure, but it was unable to do this. 
So Im unable to conclude that Advantage Insurances decision to pay the claim in part is fair 
and proportionate to the premium that Mrs W paid  as I dont have the required premium 
information to check this against. Given the insurer says it cant generate a retrospective 
premium, I think the fairest approach here is for it to treat the policy premium as paid in full 
and pay the remainder of the claim.
Ive already pointed out that Advantage Insurance overpaid the claim in error. But because it 
didnt settle the claim in full, Mrs W is still due the remaining amount  so I think Advantage 
Insurance should now settle the claim in full and pay this amount. The difference between 
what the insurer paid and the valuation of the car is £5,877.33, so Ill be instructing 
Advantage Insurance to pay this amount to Mr W. And given Mrs W was left out of pocket of 
this sum since the claim was paid, Ill also be including statutory interest in the award that I 
make. 
Mrs W also complained about delays and poor levels of service from the insurer. Advantage 
Insurance seems to have recognised where it couldve handled things better. It points to 
unnecessary delays and poor communication on its part and paid Mrs W a total of £205 
compensation. I think this fairly compensates Mrs W for the inconvenience the insurer 
caused her  so I wont be making a further compensation award. 
In summary, I think the insurer acted fairly by concluding that Mrs W misrepresented 
information about the additional driver. However, Advantage Insurance acted unfairly by 
settling the claim in part. The insurer shouldve followed CIDRA and amended the policy to 
remove the additional driver. Given that Advantage Insurance couldnt provide us with an 
updated premium, I cant fairly conclude that a proportionate settlement is reasonable. So 
Ive decided to instruct Advantage Insurance to settle the claim in full.
Putting things right
Advantage Insurance acted unfairly when it only paid part of Mrs Ws claim. To put things 
right, it should pay out the remaining amount of £5,877.33, and include 8% simple interest 
from the date the claim was originally paid to the date of settlement.
As HM Revenue and Customs requires Advantage Insurance to deduct tax from the interest, 
if Mrs W requests one, the insurer will need to give her a certificate to show how much was 
deducted.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint and instruct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman