DRN-4188766
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax handled her request 
for money back in respect of events she paid for using her Halifax debit card. 
What happened
Miss C booked tickets for a number of different events in 2020. She made several payments 
to two different suppliers using her Halifax debit card and another payment via direct 
transfer.
The events were postponed by the suppliers on several occasions because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Neither event ended up taking place and neither supplier provided Miss C with a 
refund. 
Miss C got in touch with Halifax in July 2022 and asked it to help her get a refund of the 
money shed paid to the suppliers. 
Halifax said it couldnt help Miss C because she had notified it of her disputes too late for it 
to be able to reclaim the money from the suppliers banks via a process known as 
chargeback. It said it also enquired with one of the suppliers bank about the money paid to it 
by direct transfer but was told the money had gone.
Halifax did however pay Miss C compensation of £65 for a number of service errors she had 
made it aware of. 
Dissatisfied with this response Miss C referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here didnt think Halifax should pay the refunds to Miss C. She said the card 
scheme rules made it conditional that a chargeback had to be raised within 540 days of the 
date each transaction was made  and Miss C had made Halifax aware of her dispute later 
than this on all of the relevant transactions. So, she didnt think Halifax had treated Miss C 
unfairly by refusing to attempt chargebacks. 
Miss C disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She said the card schemes rules and Halifaxs enforcement of them was unfair as they 
made no concessions for the impact of Covid-19 on transactions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel and leisure activities 
which could not go ahead as planned, with lots of trips and events being cancelled.
In many instances in the early days of the pandemic, where the supplier hadnt refunded the 
cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and 
commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate.
 
But the right to a refund when a trip or event hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case.
Here, I am looking at the actions of Halifax and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Miss Cs request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations. 
Given the payments Miss C made to the two suppliers were either via debit card or direct 
transfer, Halifax was limited in the ways it could try to get this money back for Miss C. 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment its customer made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with 
the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is 
good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to attempt one. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the relevant card 
scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
The investigator has already laid out the specific card scheme rules that were relevant to 
Miss Cs dispute and I think Miss C has confirmed her understanding of the part of these 
which related to time limits. So, I wont repeat them again here. 
Looking at the date of each transaction Miss C made with the two suppliers, its clear they all 
happened more than 540 days before Miss C made Halifax aware of her disputes in July 
2022  the latest transaction having taken place around November 2020. Its very likely 
therefore that chargebacks would not have succeeded if Halifax had attempted them as Miss 
C hadnt met the necessary temporal conditions in the card scheme rules. 
On that basis I dont find Halifax treated Miss C unfairly by refusing to attempt chargebacks. 
Thats not to say Miss C wasnt treated unfairly by the suppliers and I do sympathise that she 
has lost out in circumstances which were not at all her fault. But it wouldnt be fair in this 
case to ask Halifax to pay the refund to Miss C if there was no feasible way that it couldve 
recovered her funds from the suppliers. Chargeback is based on the card scheme rules and 
is not a determination of an individuals legal rights. I recognise Miss C has challenged the 
fairness of those rules. But its not appropriate for me to assess that here as I dont have the 
power to require the scheme to change its rules. Rather, Ive assessed whether Halifax gave 
the appropriate regard to them before deciding not to attempt a chargeback, which I find it 
did. 
I can see from the evidence that has been provided that Halifax contacted the relevant 
suppliers bank to enquire about the funds that had been paid via direct transfer. It appears 
however that nothing came of this and the funds could not be recovered. Given there is no 
dispute as to whether that payment was authorised by Miss C, and given the chargeback 
process or the protection of Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 were not available for that 
kind of payment either, I think Halifax did all that could reasonably be expected of it to try 
and recover the funds. 
I recognise Miss C is also unhappy with how Halifax administered her dispute. Halifax 
accepted that it provided a poor level of customer service to Miss C when she made it aware 
of her dispute and paid her £65 in total. There were clearly failings in the way Halifax 
handled Miss Cs claim including, errors recording what shed told it about the claim, saying it would reclaim money it hadnt actually refunded and using the wrong pronouns. Thinking 
about the impact this is likely to have had on Miss C, within the context of the outcome of her 
claim, I find the compensation Halifax has paid to be reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I dont require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to do anymore than it already has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman