DRN-3637731
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when he 
tried to close his savings account.
What happened
Mr S experienced some issues with HSBCs online chat when he was trying to close his 
savings account. He received a message saying that HSBC was busy, and it would take up 
to 60 minutes to get back to him. However, HSBC didnt respond to Mr S within this 
timeframe. 
Mr S called HSBC to raise a complaint and his account was closed over the phone.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response to his complaint, so he asked our service to look 
into his concerns. After we contacted HSBC, it offered to pay Mr S £50 for inconvenience. 
Mr S accepted HSBCs offer. However, Mr S was unhappy that HSBC paid the 
compensation into a joint account. He said the joint account holder had taken the funds. 
HSBC said it had made the payment to the joint account because it was the only current 
account that Mr S held with it.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
further. Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He remained unhappy that HSBC 
had paid compensation into his joint account, rather than asking him where he wanted the 
money to be paid. He said he wouldnt have authorised the payment into his joint account as 
he had other current accounts for his personal funds. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not this services role to tell a business what processes or procedures to follow. This 
includes how it chooses to communicate with its customers and how it decides to pay 
compensation in response to a complaint.
Our services role is to fairly resolve individual complaints brought against financial 
businesses. This means I need to consider whether HSBC treated Mr S fairly and 
reasonably and, if it didnt, whether it has done enough to put things right.
In his initial complaint to HSBC, Mr S raised concerns about the message he received on the 
online chat. He felt this gave misleading information about the timescales in which he could 
expect to receive a response. I cant tell HSBC to change the automated message in its 
online chat. But I have thought about the impact of HSBC not meeting the expectations it set 
on Mr S.
 
HSBC has acknowledged that Mr S experienced some inconvenience when his online chat 
wasnt dealt with in the expected timeframe. This meant that Mr S needed to contact HSBC 
again by chat and by phone. However, Mr S was able to close his savings account once he 
called HSBC. This was within a couple of hours of starting the chat. So, the matter was 
resolved fairly quickly. 
Mr S accepted HSBCs offer of £50 but hes unhappy that HSBC decided to pay it into his 
joint account rather than asking him where he wanted the money to be paid. He says he 
didnt authorise for the payment to go in there and his partner spent the money. 
However, Mr S has also told us that the account HSBC paid the compensation into is an 
active account that he is able to access. He says his wages go into the account and he and 
his partner take out any spare money after bills are paid. So, I think its likely that Mr S has 
benefited from the £50 compensation HSBC paid. 
Even if I was persuaded that Mr S has lost out on HSBCs offer of compensation, I wouldnt 
be telling it to do anything more. I say this because Mr Ss initial complaint was about a 
relatively minor event which was rectified quickly. Using financial services wont always be 
hassle free and we wouldnt necessarily award compensation for things going wrong  
especially when the impact is minimal. HSBC has apologised for the inconvenience caused 
to Mr S and I think thats enough to put things right.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, but I dont require HSBC to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman