DRN-1413456
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has registered a default against his 
credit card account incorrectly.
 What happened
Mr C was experiencing financial difficulties in 2017 and contacted Barclays in December 
2017 to discuss this. During the conversations Mr C had with Barclays, it says it became 
aware that Mr C was overcommitted and didnt have enough money to meet his monthly 
outgoings. So it took steps to terminate the account and it froze interest and charges on the 
account.
Barclays sent Mr C two letters explaining that if he wasnt able to make the contractual 
repayments to the account then it would terminate the account and register a default with the 
credit reference agencies. These letters gave two different dates for the payments to be 
made  30 January 2018 and 14 February 2018. Mr C says he didnt receive these letters.
Mr C called Barclays in February 2018 and says he was told that if he makes a £50 payment 
to the account, a default wouldnt be registered. Mr C has now become aware that the 
account is showing as defaulted, despite him making the £50 payment. This is making it 
difficult for him to obtain further credit at a low interest rate. Mr C also says he made a 
complaint at this time which wasnt responded to.
Mr C raised a complaint with Barclays. It said that it was correct to default the account as 
Mr C was unable to bring the account back up to date in time. But it wasnt able to listen to 
the call Mr C had with it so accepted his version of events and paid him £50 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service it provided.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that the 
default had been registered correctly. And while Mr C was provided with incorrect 
information and received poor customer service, she thought that the £50 Barclays had 
offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr C didnt agree so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
After Mr C had contacted Barclays to discuss his financial difficulties, it sent him two letters  
one was a default notice and the other was a termination notice. These letters explained that 
he needed to bring the account up to date and set out how much he needed to pay to 
prevent a default from being registered. They were clear that if the payments weren't 
made, it would report that information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr C says he didnt receive these letters. But Ive seen copies of those letters which show 
Barclays sent them to the address it held on file  the same address it was sending statements to. And the statements Mr C was being sent also showed the amount he needed 
to pay as a minimum payment. So I think Barclays took reasonable steps to make Mr C 
aware of the action it intended to take, and Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of 
the amount he needed to pay to stop a default being registered against this account.
Mr C called Barclays in February 2018 and says he was told that if he paid £50 towards the 
account, a default wouldnt be registered. Barclays hasnt been able to find a recording of 
that call but I have no reason to doubt what Mr C has said, particularly as he made a 
payment of £50 around the same time. But I think its clear that the information he was given 
was incorrect and by that time he needed to bring the account up to date to prevent a default 
being registered against the account. I can see that Mr C is disappointed as he believed the 
account wouldnt be defaulted based on the incorrect information he was told. But that 
doesnt mean that the default was registered incorrectly or that Barclays shouldnt report that 
information  which is the correct status of the account  to the credit reference agencies. 
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest that if Mr C had been given the correct 
information, he wouldve acted any differently or been able to repay the arrears in full to 
prevent the default from being registered.
Barclays has accepted that it provided Mr C with incorrect information and that a complaint 
should have been logged about this issue sooner and has offered £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused. From the information Ive seen, Barclays 
always would have registered a default against this account. So while Mr C may have been 
disappointed to find out that he had been given incorrect information, I dont think hes lost 
out as a result. And so I think the £50 compensation offered to recognise any distress 
caused by the mistake is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman