DRN-1883417
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE declined a claim under her 
landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T had a landlords insurance policy with Liberty which covered a property she rented 
out. She took this policy out on 3 December 2019. Before that, Mrs T had a policy with a 
different insurer. Amongst other things, the policy covers damage to buildings and contents 
at the rented property.
On 8 November 2019, Mrs T had given notice to the occupants to quit the property. On 6 
December 2019, after theyd moved out (the Police had to attend to get the occupants to 
leave), Mrs T discovered extensive damage to the property. So, she made a claim under her 
newly acquired policy with Liberty.
Liberty appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the property. His view was that the damage was 
due to wear and tear and neglect by the previous tenants. Liberty declined the claim on that 
basis  wear and tear and gradual damage is not covered under the policy.
Mrs T had appointed a loss assessor, who made the claim on her behalf seemingly on the 
basis that the damage was maliciously caused by the previous tenants. 
Mrs T isnt happy with the way the Loss Assessor represented her claim, but thats not 
something we can consider here. She complained to Liberty about the decision to decline 
the claim, but they maintained that the decision had been correct.
So, Mrs T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Liberty 
had done anything wrong. She thought the claim had been properly considered and the 
decision to decline was fair and reasonable.
Mrs T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During Mrs Ts dealings with Liberty, theres been a lot of discussion about whether the 
damage was maliciously caused by the previous tenants. Thats an important issue in this 
case but its not the only thing I have to consider.
Mrs Ts claim covers extensive damage to her property and contents. Without going into too 
much detail (and without comment on whether the loss assessors original claim covered all 
of these issues), this includes damage to:
the wooden flooring in the living room;
floor tiles in the kitchen (which are cracked);
the hob / oven;
the fridge-freezer;
the washing machine;
the kitchen worktops (which are rotten);
the kitchen wall tiles;
the kitchen units;
rotten flooring;
two door handles;
the garage door;
internal decorations;
venetian blinds;
curtains and fittings;
the carpets in the upstairs of the property (which were damp and had to be removed);
the drains.
Its important to be clear about what Mrs Ts policy says - and what it covers. 
In the General Exclusions section, it says (on page 10):
We will not pay for damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradually 
operating cause.
It also says (page 9):
We will not pay for loss or damage occurring before cover starts or arising from an 
event before cover starts.
Also on page 10, the policy is clear that damage caused by domestic pets is not covered. 
This is significant because Mrs T originally suggested the damage to the carpets upstairs 
may have been caused by a dog urinating on them. Shes since said no-one can be sure of 
the cause, but Ill return to this specific issue below.
The policy cover includes damage to some parts of the buildings which is accidental  
including damage to ceramic hobs and drains and sewers. And accidental damage to 
contents (which Mrs T took out an extension to cover), but not including damage caused by 
damp.
Mrs T also had an endorsement added to the policy so that malicious damage and theft by 
tenants was covered.
Its important to remember that Mrs T took out the policy on 3 December  three days before 
she discovered the damage.
Bearing that in mind and taking into account the policy terms (as above), Mrs T is covered  
by this policy with Liberty - for any malicious damage caused by her ex-tenants in the three 
days between 3 and 6 December 2019. And for accidental damage to contents and some 
parts of the building between those dates.
Any damage which occurred before 3 December 2019 is something Mrs T needs to take up 
with her previous insurer.
Im satisfied that much of the damage Mrs T claimed for or wishes to claim for (as listed 
above) cannot conceivably have come about in the three days in question in December 2019. To put it simply, things dont rot that quickly. Nor do contents like white goods fall into 
disrepair and/or contamination during such a short space of time.
Theres also damage here which is much more likely the result of prolonged mis-use or 
neglect on the part of the previous tenants and can reasonably be regarded as wear and 
tear or gradual damage. Damage to the internal decoration and furnishings would fall into 
that category.
There is damage which may have been the result of a specific accidental incident  such as 
the damaged hob and the marks on the wooden flooring in the living room (which the loss 
adjuster put down to debris falling from the open fire). But simply on the balance of 
probability  without any evidence to suggest the contrary  these are more likely than not to 
have occurred before Mrs T took out her policy with Liberty. The tenants had been in the 
property for some time.
So, this brings us back to the question of malicious damage. And what elements of the 
damage Mrs T wants to claim for might have been caused by the ex-tenants just before they 
left in a fit of pique about their eviction from the property.
As Ive already said, its impossible to maliciously cause kitchen worktops or flooring to rot 
within such a short space of time.
Its also not unreasonable for Liberty to conclude  in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary  that damage to white goods, internal decorations, blinds and curtains etc. was 
more likely a result of the self-evident (and not disputed) lifestyle of the previous tenants, 
rather than any single accidental or malicious event.
Theres no evidence that the blocked drains are the result of some malicious act by the ex-
tenants. The much more simple and likely explanation is that they mis-used and/or failed to 
maintain the property as required  over a prolonged period.
And that leaves the carpets upstairs. Mrs T originally reported these as being damp due to a 
dog urinating on them. But I accept that she was speculating at that point. She now says no-
one can know the cause, but it is possible the ex-tenants poured anti-freeze (which shes 
been told smells like urine) over the carpets before vacating the property.
I understand Mrs T removed the carpets from the property before Libertys appointed loss 
adjuster carried out his inspection. This means theres no way now that anyone can be sure 
what was causing the dampness  and whether that was a malicious act or not.
I dont think its unreasonable for Liberty to assume the issue was more likely one of general 
neglect and mis-use of the house, rather than a specific malicious event. 
It appears the family couldnt afford heating for the house at least towards the end of their 
tenancy. Im not sure they would have gone to the trouble of acquiring  or wasting  any 
product (anti-freeze or whatever) in order to purposely spoil Mrs Ts carpets. 
The state of the house generally suggests such a degree of neglect that damp carpets over 
a prolonged period wouldnt be entirely out of character.
I have every sympathy with Mrs T over this whole episode - and I entirely understand why 
she felt a need to get rid of the damp carpets as soon as possible. But it was her choice to 
do that and it did leave Liberty with no concrete evidence of the cause  and no option but to 
make a decision based on the balance of probabilities.In summary, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Liberty to decline Mrs Ts claim 
based on the evidence and information they had at the time. It seems to me inherently 
unlikely that much  if any  of the damage to Mrs Ts property was the result of accidental 
or malicious actions by the ex-tenants in the very short time the policy was live before they 
vacated the property.
If Mrs T discovers any new evidence or information to suggest any part of the damage was 
in fact caused by the ex-tenants actions during that short period (3-6 December 2019), 
Liberty should take this into consideration. But Im satisfied theyve done nothing wrong in 
declining the claim thus far.
I should also clarify one specific point. Mrs T has mentioned during her communications with 
us and/or Liberty about his case that she thought the policy was the most comprehensive 
available and would cover every eventuality. 
That expectation is rather unrealistic. And it would or should have been very clear to Mrs T 
from consideration of her policy documents that Liberty were not intending to cover any 
damage or loss whatever the cause. 
Nonetheless, I ought to be clear that Mrs T hasnt at any point made a complaint about the 
sale of the policy. Her complaint to Liberty  which is what our rules allow us to consider 
when she brings that complaint to us  was about the decision to decline her claim. 
Mrs T is entitled to make a fresh complaint about the sale of the policy if she wishes to do so 
 although I would ask her to bear in mind my comments above and to consider whether 
there is any evidence or information which might support a complaint that the policy was 
mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman