DRN-3962064
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) responded when he asked it to help him claim a refund for goods he 
ordered.
What happened
Mr H purchased a phone from a third party retailer using a point of sale loan provided by 
BPF. The retailer is a limited company that I will refer to as A. Mr H tells us that he never 
received the phone. Mr H considers this to be a breach of contract. He considers he is 
therefore entitled to a full refund. Moreover, due to the type of credit Mr H used to purchase 
the phone he thinks he is entitled to bring a like claim for breach of contract against BPF as 
he could against the retailer. Therefore Mr H complained to BPF.
Mr H spoke to BPF by phone and told it hed be cancelling his direct debits and would not 
ask for the direct debits to be reinstated until he received the phone. Mr H says BPF told him 
this would be fine but now says it has no record of the call. 
Subsequently BPF defaulted Mr Hs account without notice. Mr H complained to BPF about 
this. In particular, he asked it to provide proof of sending him a notice of default and proof 
that he received it, but it was unable to do this. Instead it closed the complaint without telling 
him. Mr H says if BPF provide him with a notice of default he will start making repayments to 
the loan even though he does not have the phone the loan is paying for.
BPFs stance is that when Mr H first complained to BPF it told Mr H to contact A. Mr H 
declined to contact A, so BPF contacted the retailer instead. It told BPF that the phone Mr H 
had ordered had been collected in store. Having heard what A had to say BPF did not agree 
that this was a matter where Mr H had a like claim for breach of contract against it as he did 
against the retailer. This was because there had been no breach of contract in its opinion. 
Further, BPF does not accept it told Mr H it was ok for him to cancel his direct debits as he 
indicates. Rather it expected Mr H to make repayments to his loan in line with his contractual 
obligations and it told him this. When he did not it told him he was in arrears and ultimately 
when he was at least three months in arrears it sent a notice of default by post. When Mr H 
did not comply with the notice it defaulted the account. BPF does not agree that it did not 
deal with Mr Hs complaint correctly in that it closed his complaint without telling him.
Dissatisfied, Mr H complained to our service.
Once Mr H brought his complaint to us he told us that members of BPFs staff had told him 
previously that some of the mail it had sent to him had been returned to it. The mail that had 
been returned did or might have included the notice of default. Further, these same 
members of staff told him that they would note this down in the internal notes they made of 
their conversations with him. 
Further, Mr H found the receipt hed been given by A. It said the phone had been collected in 
store. However, Mr H explained when he went to collect the phone it was not there because 
it had already been collected. Mr H had assumed at the time this meant the phone was 
going to be delivered to him as had the shop assistant, and therefore he was surprised when 
no delivery was made.
Subsequently Mr H told us he had applied for mortgages and been rejected due to the 
default information that BPF had asked the credit reference agencies to register on his credit 
file. Moreover, Mr H explained that this whole episode had caused him so much anxiety he 
had to see his GP about it.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.
BPF accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr H did not. In summary Mr H repeated 
his previous stance.  Mr H also indicated hed never defaulted on finance before and had not 
on this occasion either. Mr H told us he had contacted his neighbours to see if any of them 
had received his mail, by mistake, during the relevant time. One neighbour had received Mr 
Hs mail and this neighbour returned the mail to sender. Specifically, here is what Mr H told 
us about this.
I have found one man who says he received some of my post from the last few months and 
he returned them all to sender" whenever he would go to the post box. He claims to have 
photographed some of these however has yet to send them to me. So I am awaiting. 
Hopefully one of them will be from BPF.
After this, Mr H sent us photos that the neighbour sent him of unopened envelopes 
containing letters addressed to Mr H. On the front of each letter the neighbour had written 
(amongst other things), wrong address.
Mr H requested that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here 
relevant law includes but is not limited to section 75 (section 75) and section 88 (section 
88) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Due to the type of finance Mr H used to purchase the phone, under section 75 if he has a 
claim for breach of contract against A he has a like claim against BPF. Further, the law also 
provides that in general if the goods are not delivered into his physical possession and within 
the timescale the law prescribes then this would be a breach of contract. And further I would 
expect BPF to take responsibility for such a breach of contract. It seems both parties agree 
about this.
However, Mr H and BPF disagree about almost every other key aspects of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I have already mentioned Mr Hs stance is that he went to As shop to pick up the phone 
but was told it had already been collected. He assumed therefore that this meant that the phone would be delivered to him. BPF has told us about the collection procedures that A 
uses for in store collections. There is no need for me to describe those procedures in full 
here. I am mindful that this decision will be published. 
However, the procedures were gone through previously with Mr H at the earlier stage of this 
complaint with this service, so he knows these details. If the procedures are followed it 
means only someone with access to Mr Hs email would have been able to collect the 
phone. I see no reason why the procedures would not have been followed. I therefore find it 
likely that someone with access to Mr Hs email collected the phone. Moreover, based on the 
information on the file, I am satisfied that in store collection was the only contractually 
agreed method of delivery. In the circumstances I dont agree that the contract has been 
breached. 
Furthermore, BPFs noted in its internal records that Mr H told it that he had not been to As 
store. I see no reason why this record would be inaccurate. This inconsistency has impacted 
adversely on the weight I have given to what Mr H tells us about the collection from the 
store.
It follows from what Ive said above that I am satisfied that I have no fair or reasonable basis 
to say that BPF must do anything further in relation to this part of Mr Hs complaint as I dont 
uphold it.
Mr H indicates that BPF has no proper basis for defaulting his account or for asking the 
credit reference agencies to register the default and the arrears on his credit file. As far as I 
am aware Mr H did not specifically mention the arrears information as part of his complaint, 
but I think it is implicit from what he has said that he is complaining about this too. Mr H 
takes this position for a number of reasons. Which I set out below.
Further it appears that Mr H wants BPF to ask the credit reference agencies to remove the 
default and arrears information it asked them to register on his credit file. If I was satisfied 
that BPF had acted unfairly in relation to the arrears on Mr Hs account and in relation to the 
default, I would ask BPF to arrange for the default and the arrears information to be 
removed. 
Mr H tells us he told BPF he would cancel his direct debits and would not ask for them to be 
reinstated until he received the phone, and it agreed he could do this. Only for BPF to say 
afterwards it could not find the call where this was agreed. BPFs stance is that this was 
never agreed. I note that BPFs position is also it does have the relevant call recording and it 
has sent the recording to us. 
When I consider all the information I have available to me I dont agree that in that call BPF 
agreed to the cancellation of the direct debits as Mr H describes. Rather it seems that the 
parties were talking at cross purposes for some of the conversation. But BPF did not agree 
Mr H could stop making his repayments, the BPF employee on the phone even talks about 
not having the power to make such a decision. Neither have I seen anything that supports 
the assertion that BPF denied having a copy of this call recording. 
Moreover, in addition to the phone call I mention above I think during the relevant period 
BPF made it sufficiently clear in its communications with Mr H, that unless Mr H made 
payments in line with his contractual obligations BPF would take action to recover the 
arrears. In other words, I find that whilst Mr H may have concluded that he did not have to 
make repayments, in the circumstances, nothing BPF said or did reasonably gave this 
impression.
Mr H is correct to say that BPF as the creditor had to notify him as the debtor in accordance 
with section 88 before BPF could become entitled, by reason of any breach by Mr H of the 
regulated agreement to default the agreement. 
Mr H says he received no such notification. Mr H has a very particular definition of 
notification he says in this context it means unless BPF can show both proof of postage of the notice and proof of receipt by him of the notice, then the notice of default is not valid. But 
I dont agree that is required. BPFs internal notes show it did comply with all legal 
obligations around sending Mr H the notice. I say this because its internal records which 
document that the notice was posted and posted to Mr Hs correct postal address are 
enough for these purposes. I dont agree proof of postage and receipt such as stipulated by 
Mr H are required.
I take on board that Mr H also adds that it is likely that any notice sent by BPF was 
misdelivered. Moreover, Mr H also tells us BPF told him that mail it sent to him had been 
returned undelivered. He says he was told this in phone calls with members of BPFs staff. In 
addition, Mr H relies on the information which was provided to him by his neighbour to 
substantiate his position about the misdelivery of the mail.
BPF tells us it sent the letters about arrears and the notice of default by the normal post. 
Typically Id expect mail sent in this manner to be delivered. Ive listened to all the relevant 
call recordings Ive got access to between Mr H and BPF. I also looked at BPFs internal 
records. I have seen nothing in those which show that at any one point or repeatedly, BPFs 
staff told Mr H that his mail had been misdelivered. I think if such conversations had taken 
place, on balance, they would have been recorded. Especially since it seems Mr H indicates 
he had these conversations with more than one person. So I am not persuaded that Mr H 
was told by BPFs staff that some of his mail had been returned to it.
Ive thought about the information provided by Mr Hs neighbour. We have no further details 
for this neighbour other than his address which appears to be commercial premises. So 
without these details I cannot ask the neighbour directly the further questions about this mail 
that I might like to. This has impacted on the weight I feel able to place on the evidence from 
Mr Hs neighbour. 
Moreover, the letters in the photos appear to have no postmarks on them so Ive no way of 
telling if this misdelivery of mail happened at the relevant time or not. Even if I did accept that 
some of Mr Hs mail was misdelivered, which I do not, it does not follow that most likely all 
the letters from BPF about arrears and the notice of default also went astray. 
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded it is more likely than not that Mr H did not 
receive information about the arrears and the notice due to the postal errors made by Royal 
Mail. In any event, even if I did find that Royal Mail most likely misdelivered all of the relevant 
mail, I could not fairly or reasonably hold BPF to account for this in these circumstances.
Further, if I found that Mr H had not been sent the information about the arrears and the 
notice of default by BPF Id still not say BPF would have to ask the credit reference agencies 
to remove the default from Mr Hs credit file. This is because Mr H ought reasonably to have 
known he had entered into an agreement under which he had to make repayments to BPF. 
He did not make those repayments. He had no agreement that he did not have to make 
those repayments. Therefore in the circumstances I think BPF did enough so that he ought 
reasonably to have known the account was in default. 
For all of these reasons I am satisfied that BPF acted fairly in relation to defaulting the 
account and asking the credit reference agencies to register information about the arrears 
and the default notice on Mr Hs credit file. It follows I am not going to ask BPF to arrange for 
this information to be removed from Mr Hs credit file and cancel the default.
Mr H has suggested that if BPF issues a new notice of default hell start making his 
repayments. I think this would be pointless. BPF has already registered a default. So what I 
think he is asking for in reality, as I have already said, is for BPF to cancel the default and 
ask the credit reference agencies to remove the default and arrears information from his 
credit file. And then send him a new notice of default, presumably via a postal method he 
finds acceptable. But BPF has no obligation to do any of this for the reasons I set out above.Mr H has told us about the rejection of his mortgage applications.  Lenders refuse to lend for 
a number of reasons, no one piece of information is likely to be the sole cause of the 
rejection. That said a default on a credit file is most likely going to be one of the factors a 
lender takes into account. Mr H cannot pinpoint these rejections to the registration of the 
default or demonstrate it played a substantial role in the decisions to reject his applications. 
And even if he could, it would not assist him here because I have found BPF does not have 
to cancel the default and ask the credit reference agencies to remove the default from Mr Hs 
credit file as it had not acted unfairly by registering the default.
Mr H initially complained that BPF closed his complaint about the arrears and the default 
without telling him. This point was never seemingly the main thrust of his complaint. 
Moreover as the complaint progressed it appeared Mr H no longer wished to pursue it. But in 
case I am mistaken about this I have looked at the issue. I dont find that BPF did not treat 
Mr H appropriately BPFs records indicate it told him its stance. I see no reason why those 
records would be inaccurate on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman