DRN-3181667
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as D complain that Western Union International Bank GmbH, 
charged it the wrong rate for a foreign currency trade.
In bringing the complaint D is represented by its director who I refer to as Mr S
 
What happened
 The facts of the case are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail. 
Briefly, D uses Western Union to send foreign exchange payments to its overseas suppliers. 
On 12 June 2019 Western Union wrote to Mr S to offer a rate concession on future currency 
exchange transactions. Western Union said: 
As discussed, on your volumes we can offer you 0.15% off the interbank rate saving your
company money when you're looking to make your currency conversions.
In April 2021 Mr S booked a foreign exchange currency deal for AED 1,018,295.50. But the 
rate concession that D was offered in June 2019 was not applied to the transaction when it 
was booked. Instead, Western Union charged D a 0.25% margin.  
Mr S says a few days later before he was due to make the payment to complete the trade, 
he noticed the error and declined to go ahead. So, Western Union cancelled the trade and 
asked D to pay losses of £3,075.70 representing the difference between the rate at the time 
the foreign currency trade was booked, and rate Western Union received when they 
cancelled it. 
D didnt think it should have to pay the £3,075.70 Western Union demanded. But Western 
Union disagreed, because they didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said Mr S 
authorized the booking of the trade and therefore D should be liable for the loss that arose 
from its cancellation. 
D didnt agree and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and concluded the bank was wrong to seek to recover 
the £3,075.70 from D. She was satisfied that the 12 June 2019 e-mail showed that Western 
Union and D had an agreement whereby D would be charged the concessionary rate stated 
in the e-mail for currency conversions. And she believed both D and Western Union had 
become familiar with that pricing because historic transactions were priced accordingly. In 
particular, she observed that in the past Western Union had failed to abide by the 
agreement, as had happened in August 2020. But in response to Mr Ss complaint about it, 
not only did the bank acknowledge and put right the error, it said in a telephone call to Mr S, 
that the 0.15% rate hadnt changed and Ds transactions would continue to be priced 
accordingly. 
Western Union didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and have asked for the matter 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Western Union said - summary:  
There was no contractual agreement, between Western Union and D in relation to 
the 0.15% rate concession. So, its unfair that the bank should be obliged 
permanently to honour a rate which its representative perhaps overstated as an offer 
from the bank in their attempt to win Ds business. 
In any case, since the 12 June 2019 e-mail D agreed to Western Unions Corporate 
Terms and Conditions including, more specifically section 4.7. which states:
4.7. Exchange Rate Quote. Where a foreign currency conversion service is 
requested in relation to a Request, the Client will receive an exchange rate quote 
which will only be valid for such time as specified at the time the exchange rate is 
requested. The exchange rate applicable to any particular Request is the exchange 
rate provided to the Client at the time the Request is submitted by the Client. 
Mr S was quoted an exchange rate and given the opportunity to confirm he was 
happy to proceed with the transaction at that rate and he confirmed that he was. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and broadly for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Western Unions 12 June 2019 e-mail to D is unambiguous. The bank stated clearly that 
based on the volume of Ds transactions it was prepared to offer D, 0.15% off the interbank 
rate. Importantly, also Western Union didnt put a time limit on the concession.
It is no part of Western Unions case that the circumstances which led to their offer to D had 
changed - for example, that its trade had decreased. And the bank didnt write telling D it no 
longer wished to continue to offer the concession as it had done when making the offer.
I note Western Union believes the 12 June 2019 offer was perhaps an overstated 
inducement by its representative to attract Ds business. But it wouldnt be fair to blame D for 
that. It appears the inducement worked. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that D should 
have expected, as it did, that going forward the rate concession would continue to apply to 
its foreign exchange transactions, unless Western Union confirmed they were no longer able 
or prepared to abide by it. 
Ive thought about Western Unions argument that in effect condition 4.7 of the Corporate 
terms and conditions which D had entered into after the 12 June 2019 e-mail put an end to 
any previous offer. But in the absence of any clear indication being given to D that that was 
the case  and Ive seen no evidence to that effect, Im not persuaded it does. 
Besides, as the investigator observed, in August 2020, D did not receive the rate concession 
on a transaction it completed at the time. The bank not only took corrective action after Mr S 
complained but in a phone call to Mr S confirmed the rate concession would continue to 
apply. I therefore find that if Western Union did not wish to continue offering the 
concessionary 0.15% rate to D, it had an opportunity in August 2020 when resolving Ds 
complaint to let it know clearly and explicitly that was the case. In other words that future exchange rate transactions would not be subject to the rate concession that was offered in 
June 2019.  
Western Union has also pointed to Mr Ss acceptance of the rate the bank confirmed in April 
2021 when the foreign currency trade was booked. Mr S acknowledges that he did. But he 
says he did so without realising hed agreed the wrong rate until hed gone away and worked 
things out. 
Im persuaded by Mr Ss testimony. I think he made a mistake. Given his past action in 
August 2020 it seems to me he wouldnt have knowingly agreed a rate that failed to take 
account of the concession he was expecting to receive. So, Im not persuaded Mr S was 
freely agreeing to dispense with the rate concession in favour of the alternative that was 
confirmed to him in April 2021.    
 
Putting things right
 In summary, having agreed a concessionary rate of 0.15% off the interbank rate on 12 June 
2019, it wasnt unreasonable for D to expect to receive the concession going forward and 
that it would be applied to the April 2021 trade that was booked on its behalf. Since that 
wasnt the position it was not unreasonable for Mr S to decline to proceed with the 
transaction. Its unfortunate the cancellation of the trade resulted in a loss of £ £3,075.70. 
But since Mr S did not act unreasonably when he declined to go ahead with the transaction, I 
do not find D should be held responsible for that loss.
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Western 
Union International Bank GmbH to take no further action to recover from D the £3,075.70 
loss incurred when the foreign currency trade was cancelled 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman