DRN-1374201
 
complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection to their mortgage in 2005. 
The mortgage and the policy were in joint names. 
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, 
and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about payment protection insurance on our website, and Ive used this approach 
in this case.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B and Mrs B said that they could not recall having agreed to the PPI. Ive considered this 
testimony and the evidence that has been provided by Britannia. In order to get the cover Mr 
B and Mrs B had to complete an application form for it. Mr B and Mrs B signed for the cover 
on the application form. So, I think its more likely that they chose the cover. And the 
application for the cover was separate from the application they would have completed for 
the mortgage. And Ive been given a copy of the mortgage offer that Mr B and Mrs B signed 
which explained that, You are not obliged to take out any insurance through Britannia 
Building Society. So, I think it more likely that Mr B and Mrs B knew this was something they 
didnt have to take out, even if they cant remember that now. 
Britannia has said that it recommended the PPI to Mr B and Mrs B, and based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was right for them. I say this because:
Mr B and Mrs B were eligible for the policy and they werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr B and Mrs B says that Mrs S was entitled to good sickness benefits from her 
employer initially, but it dropped significantly after six months, such that Mrs B may 
have had to rely on her modest savings, sell her car or ask her family for support in 
repaying the mortgage. Mr B told us he had some entitlement to sick pay if he was off 
work through ill health, but hasnt provided details of that. But the PPI would have 
paid benefits for up to 12 months and in addition to any employer sick pay they may 
have been entitled to and it would have reduced their reliance on any support their 
family may have been in a position to provide and would have protected their 
savings. And it could have paid out if Mr B and Mrs B lost a job. So, considering the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on their home, I 
think the PPI would have been useful to Mr B and Mrs B potentially.The policy appears to have been comparable in cost to other policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears to have been affordable.
I cant be certain that Britannia provided full information to Mr B and Mrs B. But for the same 
reason that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information would have led Mr 
B and Mrs B to avoid the policy. 
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint of Mr B and Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman