DRN-3918312
The complaint
Miss B complains British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) mis-sold her central heating 
breakdown policies.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Miss B bought the property in late 2015, she says she was told by the previous 
owner that they had installed a new boiler. Miss B says she did have paperwork at 
the time, but this was left with the tenants and has been lost over time
Miss B says she took out central heating breakdown policy straight away as she was 
letting the property and wanted to ensure she had cover
In November 2022, Miss B made a claim on her policy, but British Gas were unable 
to repair or replace the boiler. It says it has been informing Miss B by way of her 
renewal documents that the boiler had been discontinued and getting some parts 
may not be possible. As the boiler was now over 7 years old it also wouldnt be 
replaced as per the terms and conditions of the policy
Miss B says she didnt read the documents and feels British Gas shouldve told her 
verbally when she called it each year to renew. She feels it has unfairly taken the 
premiums each year knowing it couldnt guarantee getting parts. Miss B says she 
couldve saved all that money had she known her boiler wasnt under 7 years old 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think British Gas had mis-sold 
the policies and it had acted fairly by refunding the last years premium as it couldnt 
repair or replace the boiler
Miss B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When British Gas sold the policy to Miss B it needed to do so in accordance with the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook. These rules cover the sale of insurance policies and requires it 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that a customer only buys a policy under which they are 
eligible to claim benefits. These also require British Gas to ensure a customer is given 
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form, so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. The level of 
information required varies, but its clear from the rules that making the customer aware of 
the main benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy is important.
I have therefore looked at the renewal invitations sent to Miss B. British Gas provided clear 
information about the cover, and it also brought attention under the section named Important 
information that the manufacturer of the boiler had stopped making this model. It noted it 
was still making the most important parts for the boiler, but some other parts were becoming 
difficult to source. I appreciate Miss B says she didnt read the documents, but the rules do 
not require British Gas to tell their customers everything verbally and the onus is upon the 
customer to read the information provided before accepting the terms, or to cancel the policy 
within the first 14 days. I havent identified British Gas has made any error, and Im satisfied 
enough information was provided to Miss B so she could make an informed decision if she 
wanted to continue with the policy. 
Miss B has said the cover shouldve stopped in 2019 when British Gas knew it couldnt 
guarantee repairs. I have therefore looked to see if Miss B wouldve been eligible to claim 
the benefits of the cover. 
Miss B hasnt been able to provide exact dates when the boiler was installed but she has 
provided the fixture and fittings list dated 24 October 2015 that shows the boiler was listed 
as sold as seen, new. So, Im satisfied the boiler was installed sometime prior to this. 
So, if I take that the boiler was installed from October 2015, Miss Bs boiler wouldve been 
less than 7 years old up to October 2022 and Miss B was covered for a boiler replacement if 
British Gas couldnt repair it. Unfortunately, Miss B made a claim in November 2022. And as 
British Gas couldnt repair or replace the boiler it refunded the premium for that policy year 
which Im satisfied was fair. 
I can also see Miss B has had the benefit of central heating breakdown cover if she needed 
to claim between 2015 and 2022. And I can see this was utilised including having a part 
replaced on the boiler in 2019. I therefore cant agree the policies were unsuitable for Miss B 
or that British Gas had mis-sold the policies. I therefore wont be asking British Gas to do 
anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman