DRN-3819692
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Mather & Murray Financial Ltd (Mather & 
Murray) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Mr W chose to opt-into the BSPS2.
Mr Ws scheme benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £115,400.
Mr W was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so during December 2017 he sought advice. Mr W made contact 
with Mather & Murray having found them via an internet search. Mr W had received advice 
from another firm prior to meeting Mather & Murray, but they were unable to proceed with a 
transfer.
Mather & Murray recorded some information about Mr Ws circumstances. It noted that he 
was 33, single and he lived with his sibling. Mr W was employed earning approximately 
£40,000. 
He and his sibling had a joint mortgage on their home of approximately £159,000, which had 
a remaining term of 22 years. He had savings of around £52,000 and he had no other 
liabilities. His monthly expenditure was around £1,000. Mather & Murray also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderate-adventurous  a 
score of seven out of ten.
Mather & Murray issued a suitability report detailing its recommendation on 3 January 2018. 
This said Mr W wanted to retire at 60 on an approximate income of £30,000 a year. It said 
his expenditure was already modest, but would be reduced further when his mortgage was 
paid off. It said Mr W wanted to make use of his active retirement years  the first 10 years 
or so  by having a higher income, which he could then reduce in his later years. It said 
Mr W wanted the option of further lump sums for discretionary spending.
Mather & Murray recommended that Mr W transfer his pension to a personal pension 
arrangement. It said the main reason for the recommendation was because Mr W wanted to 
secure the transfer value. It said Mr W was insistent that a transfer take place after things 
didnt proceed with another advice firm. It said it believed the critical yield was achievable 
and that transferring would provide him with flexibility that his DB scheme couldnt. It also 
said that, because Mr W was single, he wanted to change the way the death benefits were 
paid and by transferring this would allow him to nominate beneficiaries. Mather & Murray 
recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report also noted that ongoing reviews would be provided, which would come 
at a further cost.
Mr W complained to Mather & Murray in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In 
essence he didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for 
him. 
Mather & Murray didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said the recommendation was in line with 
his objectives at the time, so it was suitable. It said Mr W wanted flexibility to retire early at 
60 if his funds allowed and if there was anything left when he died, he wanted his family to 
benefit. It said Mr W both understood and accepted the risks of transferring. Nevertheless, it 
said it was prepared to make a goodwill offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Dissatisfied with its response, and rejecting Mather & Murrays offer, Mr W referred his 
complaint to us using the services of a representative. He said he now believes the advice 
he received was flawed and that by relying on it hes suffered a loss.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and they upheld it. They firstly said that, 
while Mather & Murray had referred to Mr W as being insistent on transferring, this wasnt a 
case of them treating him as an insistent client  they provided a positive recommendation to 
transfer. They said while they accepted Mr W was motivated to transfer, financial advice was 
more than just facilitating Mr Ws wishes, so the fact he was keen to transfer didnt make it 
suitable. 
They then went on to explain why they thought the advice was unsuitable. They said they 
werent persuaded that Mr Ws attitude to risk was truly moderate-adventurous given some 
of the answers he gave in Mather & Murrays risk assessment. They thought a more 
balanced or medium risk approach was more appropriate. And given this, they thought 
Mr W was unlikely to improve on the benefits available to him through the DB scheme by 
transferring and investing in line with that risk approach. They also questioned Mather & 
Murrays investment recommendation to use a DFM  they didnt think the additional level of 
charges was necessary in the circumstances. 
The Investigator also didnt think there were other compelling reasons to transfer. They said 
Mr W was too young to understand what his retirement plans were - whether he needed 
flexibility or what his income need was. They said Mr W had plenty of time to accrue further 
pension provision in his workplace scheme which would offer flexibility, so a transfer wasnt 
necessary now. They didnt think different death benefits was a suitable reason to transfer  
Mather & Murray couldve considered a life policy if he genuinely wanted to provide lump 
sum death benefits for his family. They said if suitable advice had been given to retain his DB scheme benefits, Mr W wouldve accepted it. And because Mr W had chosen to opt-into 
the BSPS2, they said this should be the basis of the redress. 
Mr W, through his representative, agreed with the Investigators findings. But they thought 
the distress and inconvenience award should be increased to £300 to take account of 
Mather & Murrays conduct following the complaint. 
Mather & Murray disagreed. It said the enhanced death benefits was an add-on to the 
benefit of the transfer in Mr Ws opinion. It said although it recognised he had no immediate 
need for cover, the prospect of a more meaningful legacy was attractive. It said the suitability 
report recorded as far as was practical and reasonable that Mr W wanted £30,000 in 
retirement. It said it is unreasonable to have expected it to drill down and provide a precise 
shopping list of what he intended to spend in retirement. It said it noted the Investigators 
comments about the critical yield and said the FCA has said the advice process should not 
be framed as a mathematical exercise regarding future projected yields but it should take a 
holistic approach to the clients needs and objectives.
It said Mr Ws attitude to risk was recorded in the fact-find and the questionnaire used to 
assess his attitude was independently produced and was used industry-wide. It said Mr W 
understood the risks involved and just because hed not invested before didnt mean the 
adopted strategy was unsuitable. It said it believed his circumstances meant he was well-
placed to take the recommended approach. It said it disagreed with the Investigators view 
about the use of a DFM. It said while it accepted a DFM would usually add an extra layer of 
cost and complexity to things, the one recommended in this case was a lost cost, simple and 
proportionate solution to Mr Ws needs. It said its requirement was to take reasonable steps 
to demonstrate the transfer was suitable rather than to guarantee it was. It said it believes its 
advice was clear, it had lengthy discussions with Mr W about the options available and the 
pros and cons of each, it challenged his motivations and Mr W proceeded in light of the 
various disclosures. It said it believes the advice is clearly and demonstrably suitable. It also 
indicated that it thought an oral hearing was desirable because it acknowledged it couldve 
captured soft facts more diligently in its fact-finding.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for final decision.
Before issuing my final decision, I clarified whether Mather & Murray was requesting a formal 
hearing. And it replied to say it did not require a hearing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mather & Murray's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. I can see Mather & Murray has argued that its 
responsibility at the time was to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable  it 
didnt have to guarantee this. And while this is true as COBS 9 sets out, there were 
additional requirements - the provisions in COBS 19 - which specifically relate to a DB 
pension transfer.
For example, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G 
that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
Mather & Murray should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Mather & Murray was required to 
carry out by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ws pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme  was 5.16% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 65. No figure was produced to match the maximum tax-free cash and 
reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age. To match the full pension the 
PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 3.73% and to match the tax-free 
cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 3.53%.
Despite Mather & Murray recording that Mr W wanted to retire at 60 (or between 60 
and 65 in other parts of the paperwork) it did not produce critical yields based on the 
benefits available to Mr W under the scheme at age 60. Only basing them on the 
schemes normal retirement age wasnt helpful to Mr W given hed indicated he might 
want to retire earlier than 65. I think to enable Mr W to be in a properly informed 
position, Mather & Murray shouldve also produced analysis based on him retiring at 
60. Afterall, I think this was the advice Mr W was seeking.
 
Furthermore, despite the fact it was known by the point Mather & Murray instructed 
the TVAS that continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr W, 
and that hed elected to opt-into the BSPS2 prior to the 22 December 2017 deadline, 
the analysis was based on the existing BSPS benefits. 
I think this analysis was somewhat redundant. I think it shouldve carried out analysis 
of the benefits Mr W wouldve been due under the BSPS2. In any event, given what 
we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 
wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the 
PPF.Mather & Murray assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk as moderate - adventurous. But, 
like the Investigator, I have some concerns about how this was arrived at and Im not 
persuaded this was a true or fair reflection of the risk Mr W was prepared to take with 
his pension benefits. I say this because of five answers - key answers in my view - 
Mr W gave in Mather & Murrays risk assessment. These indicated he wasnt 
prepared to take substantial risk; he had little investment experience; hed rather be 
safe than sorry when it came to investing; he didnt want to take chances with high 
risk; and he was concerned by the uncertainty of stock market investment. 
So while Mr Ws age and the term to retirement suggest he could afford to adopt 
some level of investment risk, I think a closer inspection of the risk assessment 
suggests that a more appropriate and fair assessment of the level of risk he was 
prepared to take was a medium or a moderate approach.
So, taking into account a more appropriate medium attitude to risk, the discount rate 
of 4.7% for 31 years to retirement (age 65) and the regulators middle projection rate, 
I think Mr W was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower 
value than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2. And given the shorter 
term to a retirement age of 60, I think its likely the critical yields, had they been 
produced, wouldve been higher than those at age 65. So I think he was even more 
likely to receive lower benefits than the BSPS2 offered, if he retired early.
While it appears there was some scope to improve on the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 65, given the critical yields based on a retirement age of 60 were 
again likely to be higher, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits the PPF 
offered was limited, if he retired early. But even if I thought a transfer was financially 
viable for Mr W, because this isnt the only consideration in determining whether a 
transfer was suitable and in Mr Ws best interests, Ive considered whether there 
were other supporting and compelling reasons to justify a transfer.
Mather & Murray recorded that the main reason for the recommendation was 
because Mr W wanted to secure the transfer value. But I dont think this alone is a 
compelling or suitable reason to justify the transfer as being in Mr Ws best interests.
It also recorded that Mr W wanted to retire at 60, have flexibility to be able to enjoy a 
higher income in the first 10 years of his retirement, take lump sums for discretionary 
spending and then reduce his income later in life. But at 33, Im not persuaded 
Mr W had likely given any serious thought to his retirement or reasonably understood 
what his needs would be some 25 years or more in the future. The evidence doesnt 
support that he had any kind of retirement plan  hence why I think 60-65 was 
sometimes referred to as being Mr Ws target retirement age in the advice 
paperwork.
Im certain Mr W liked the idea of retiring early. But he already had this option 
available to him  he didnt have to transfer to achieve things. And no doubt he was 
attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided. But I think this was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Ws. 
I dont think he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement  how 
would he reasonably know at age 33 that hed want or need a higher income in the 
early years of his retirement to then reduce it later on? And nothing indicates he had 
an apparent need for a cash lump sum and defer taking an income. In any event, Mr W already had flexibility  something I think Mather & Murray 
appears to have overlooked. He was contributing to his workplace pension scheme  
a defined-contribution (DC) scheme, which already provided flexibility in how and 
when he could access his benefits. Given the 16% contribution being made to this, 
and over the next 25 years or more, I think this had the potential to be a significant 
pension pot. I think Mr Ws DB scheme income, his already not inconsiderable 
savings, which he was adding to monthly, together with his DC pension couldve 
given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided. So I dont 
think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Mr Ws income need was recorded as being £30,000. But again, I dont think he 
could reasonably know at this time what hed need when he retired. Mather & Murray 
says that its unreasonable to have expected it to drill down and provide a precise 
shopping list of what he intended to spend in retirement. But I wouldve expected it 
to have carried out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis. I think 
in the circumstances it shouldve interrogated this figure and challenged how realistic 
a figure it was. Mr W was only spending £1,000 a month while he was working and 
Mather & Murray recorded that his spending was modest and would reduce even 
further once his mortgage was repaid. So a retirement income of £30,000 strikes me 
as being somewhat on the high side in the circumstances. But if this figure was what 
Mr W needed, I havent got evidence to show that Mather & Murray demonstrated to 
him that he could sustainably meet this income need from age 60 by transferring to a 
personal pension. Mather & Murray says it carried out a cashflow analysis at the time 
to show this - but it hasnt been able to provide it. 
Without a realistic understanding of Mr Ws true needs in retirement, I dont think it 
was in his best interests to transfer at this time. Mr Ws DB pension was estimated to 
be around £11,000 a year at 65  a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which 
wasnt likely to be bettered by transferring. I think it wouldve provided a solid income 
foundation upon which Mr Ws other means, including his DC scheme pension and 
savings, could supplement to likely meet his income needs and objectives in 
retirement. I think this was a more appropriate way for Mr W to meet his future 
retirement needs rather than risking his guaranteed benefits in an attempt to do so.
Mather & Murray said Mr W wanted to change the way death benefits were paid  he 
was single with no children and was happy to sacrifice his DB benefits to do so. It 
said the current death benefits had no advantage to him. But the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement. Mr W might have been single at 
the time, but that doesnt mean he would remain so. So its possible that the existing 
schemes death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, couldve been valuable to 
any future family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr W drew in his lifetime. So in any event, it may not 
have provided the legacy that Mr W may have thought it would.
Although I dont think it was essential at this stage given Mr Ws circumstances, if he 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Mather & Murray couldve explored 
life insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant disposable income 
through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been 
considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper, particularly given Mr Ws age. But there's little evidence Mather & Murray 
did so. 
So, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I dont think that insurance was properly 
explored as an alternative. And ultimately Mather & Murray should not have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
enough to persuade me that Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme. I can see that Mather & Murray recorded in the suitability report 
that Mr W was insistent that a transfer take place. It said hed sought advice from another 
advice firm, but this couldnt proceed due to the firm not having the necessary regulatory 
permissions.
But it wasnt the case that Mather & Murray treated Mr W as an insistent client. An insistent 
client is one that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. In this case, Mather & 
Murray recommended that Mr W transfer. I accept Mr W was likely motivated to transfer 
when he approached Mather & Murray given the circumstances, but on balance I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed the advice he was given  advice he had sought out 
and was paying for. Mr W had little investment experience and nothing suggests to me he 
had the requisite confidence or skill to go against the advice he was given. So I still think 
that, if things had happened as they should have and Mather & Murray had clearly explained 
why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer and that he could meet his objectives by 
retaining his DB scheme benefits, he wouldve likely accepted that advice.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr W received from Mather & Murray 
was unsuitable for him. And because I dont think Mr W shouldve been advised to transfer 
out of the DB scheme, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation  this only exists because of the unsuitable transfer advice.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Mather & Murray  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Mr W. While Im mindful that Mr W still has many 
year to retirement, taking everything into account, including what hes said about the anxiety 
caused worrying about whether hell be significantly worse off in retirement, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £200 is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
I can see Mr Ws representative has asked for a higher award  its referred to Mather & 
Murrays conduct following his complaint. But Im not awarding this payment in relation to the 
way Mather & Murrays dealt with Mr Ws complaint. This is about how Mr W has been 
affected by the unsuitable advice he received. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied an 
award of £200 is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Mather & Murray to put Mr W, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.If suitable advice had been given, I think it wouldve confirmed his decision to opt-into the 
BSPS2 was the right one and it was suitable for him in the circumstances. So it is the 
benefits available to Mr W under the BSPS2, which should be used for comparison 
purposes. 
Mather & Murray must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Mather & Murray should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what Mather & Murray based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Mather & Murray should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Mather & Murrays offer to calculate how much of their redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Mather & Murray may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mather & Murray 
Financial Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd pays Mr W the balance.
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd should also pay Mr W £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mather & Murray 
Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman