DRN-2777713
The complaint
Ms L, on behalf of M, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim
under Ms business protection insurance policy.
What happened
M has the benefit of a number of business protection insurance policies that cover 13 of their 
sites. Ms L made a claim on those policies to cover Ms losses arising out of the national
government-imposed lockdown in March 2020 intended to control the spread of Covid 19, 
which led to a significant reduction in revenue for M.
Covea declined the claim because it said M didnt have cover for the losses it was
claiming for. Ms L didnt agree. She made a number of submissions including:
 The Compulsory Closure extension applicable to Ms policies should provide cover for 
M.
Covea have paid claims for businesses in the same sector as M who hold similar 
policies, which is unfair.
The policy summary and documents M was provided with are unclear and misleading so 
shouldnt be applied in favour of Covea.
When Covea turned down cover, they sent their letter to Ms satellite service which led to 
a member of staff opening it as it wasnt addressed to Ms L, but rather just M. This 
caused the staff member distress as she became concerned about the financial 
implications of Ms claim being turned down.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.
He said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation M found
itself in. Ms L doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on M. But for 
the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill
explain why. 
The type of cover M is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks.
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The
starting point is to consider the specific policies M took out. As such Ive considered
every aspect of the policies M holds with Covea to determine whether there are any
sections that would require Covea to meet the claim like the one M is making.
Ms L has told us that M ran a limited service from March 2020 due to the government 
imposed lockdown. The nature of Ms business meant that it couldnt operate in the way it 
did before, which led to a significant downturn in turnover.
The policies provide cover for several things, including compulsory closure and
loss of revenue, including prevention of access. Ive considered those sections below.
Compulsory Closure
The Covid 19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a government-imposed
lockdown. Ms L feels that the compulsory closure section of the policy offers cover in these
circumstances. Ive considered what shes said about this and though I accept that this
section offers cover in certain circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here.
Under this section the policy covers:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory closure by a
public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises
b) foreign or deleterious matter in food or drink sold, supplied or provided at the premises
c) the occurrence at the premises of murder, manslaughter, suicide or rape
d) defective sanitation of the premises or the presence at the premises of vermin or pests
e) the occurrence within 25 miles of the premises of a notifiable human infectious or
contagious disease.
Based on the circumstances of the claim, there needed to be a discovery of notifiable human
infectious or contagious disease either at the insured premises or an occurrence within 25
miles.
The term notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is defined as:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, food
poisoning, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningitis, meningococcal septicaemia (without
meningitis), mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, relapsing
fever, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, typhus fever, viral
haemorrhagic fever, viral hepatitis, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, whooping cough,
yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior written consent.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides M with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the
specified illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something
Covea might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present
pandemic as Ms L says. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which
are set out and updated on a Government defined list. Ms policy sets out a list of the
illnesses which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that
it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. Rather
the policy is clear that no other disease shall be added to the defined list without Coveas
prior written consent. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Covea provided such
consent in this case.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular
illnesses. There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under plague which is one of the
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does. Whilst the policy does not
define what plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium. Plague appears as a specified
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria
Yersinia Pestis. There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and
pneumonic. In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection.
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the term plague used in the
policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness. And whilst I appreciate its
possible that plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition as an infectious
disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list Covea has set
out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified illnesses set out within it,
so it would be pointless to list them as Covea has.
The fact that plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up and
nature to plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall within
the term plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
to treat the policy as if it did.
So, although Ms compulsory closure was due to a public body, and there may well
have been a case of Covid-19 either at the insured premises or within 25-miles of it, I dont
think this term covers its claim because Covid-19 does not fall within the definition of
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease.
When reaching my findings about this section of this policy I can assure Ms L that Ive taken
into account what shes said about the policy extending cover to diseases that arent 
specifically excluded by the policy or that the policy itself is unclear on whether or not Covid-
19 is covered. But for the reasons Ive set out in detail above, I dont agree that is the correct 
way to interpret things, nor that the policy term is unclear. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I can assure Ms L that when reaching my outcome, I reviewed 
the policies for Ms various sites and the group policy M had which contains similar terms. 
None of those  cover the position M finds itself in.
The Policy Summary
Ive also thought about whether the Policy Summary is misleading in relation to the cover the 
policies afford, such that would render the cover unclear or ambiguous. 
The policy summary that Ms L has referred to doesnt contain reference to a specified list of 
illnesses in relation to claims for loss of revenue. However, as the investigator explained, 
that doesnt mean that the policy itself is unclear. A policy summary is just that- a summary. 
So whilst I would usually expect it to contain reference to some of the policys significant 
terms and exclusions, I wouldnt say that Coveas failure to define the illnesses it does cover 
within the summary means that the policy itself was unclear or that this meant Covea should 
pay Ms claim.
As the investigator pointed out, the summary does make clear that it doesnt describe all of 
the terms and conditions of the policy but rather refers the policyholder to the full policy 
terms. If Ms L remains unhappy with how the policy was presented when it was sold to M, 
she should complain to the seller of the policy about that. Coveas letter of decline
I understand that Coveas letter turning down cover got into the hands of a member of staff 
that it might not have been intended for and that caused concern to her. Im sorry to hear this 
happened.
Whilst it would have been better for Covea to ensure it was corresponding with the correct 
representative for M, rather than M itself, I dont have the power to compensate M for any 
distress caused to members of its staff. Thats because M is a commercial entity so isnt 
capable of suffering distress.  
Finally, Id like to reassure Ms L that Ive looked at whether cover was available for M under 
any other sections of Coveas policy and I regret that I cant see that it was. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Covea acted unfairly by turning down
Ms claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Ms L but I hope Ive
provided her with a thorough explanation of why Ms policy doesnt offer cover in the
circumstances of its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint against Covea Insurance
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman