DRN-2114190
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited t/a Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
BMWFS.
Three days after acquiring the car, Mrs M says her car broke down and that the car was 
collected by the dealership  the car had lost its power steering. Mrs M said she had 
intended to reject the car at this point, but the dealership repaired the issue and also offered 
her one-year free warranty as a gesture of goodwill.
The same issue happened again with the car in December 2019. And the car was taken 
back to the dealership. Mrs M told us she wants to reject the car and that she hasnt had the 
car since 12 December 2019, as its been at the dealership.
Mrs M says she lives in a rural area and needs a car to get to and from work as she doesnt 
have use of public transport. To remain mobile, Mrs M arranged for a hire car for a two week 
period. Mrs M says this has caused a great deal of stress and inconvenience.
BMWFS say it was agreed with the dealership that they would take the car back. However, 
as Mrs M had done over 9,000 miles since acquiring the car, the dealership were charging 
her for excess mileage  this charge was for £1,400. BMWFS explained that whilst they 
disagreed with this charge as Mrs M had done her contracted mileage, they have no control 
over the charges the dealership wanted to charge Mrs M. However, they agreed to 
reimburse Mrs M two months worth of payments made towards the finance agreement (for 
December 2019 and January 2020) as a gesture of goodwill. This amounted to £333.56 and 
was refunded to Mrs M in January 2020. 
Unhappy with BMWFS response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns. She said it wasnt in dispute that there was a fault 
with the car. But given the fact that Mrs M had made monthly payments towards the finance 
agreement, it was unfair for the dealership to then charge another fee for the mileage use. 
Our investigator explained that the agreement didnt have a mileage cap or allowance in 
place, therefore, there was no basis for the charge being applied. She also said BMWFS is 
the supplier of the car and they are ultimately responsible for the cars quality. So, our 
investigator recommended BMWFS put things right for Mrs M by cancelling the agreement, 
removing information about the agreement from her credit file, refund the payments Mrs M 
has made towards the agreement from February 2020 onwards as well as refunding her 
some of her hire car costs and £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M agreed with this. Mrs M also told us in July 2020 she had arranged to declare the car 
as SORN as it was still with the dealership. BMWFS disagreed with our investigators 
opinion. They said that they are not the party charging Mrs M for the mileage use. BMWFS 
also reiterated that the dealership are an independent business, so they have no control 
over the charges that the dealership may impose on a customer. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
 
Mrs Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS supplied the goods i.e. the car, to Mrs M 
and they are therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the car. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
 
The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. Where a brand-new car is supplied the 
expectation is that the car is free from even minor defects. But with used cars, the car will 
show some signs of wear and tear and this is reflected in the price paid for the car. In this 
instance, Mrs M acquired a used car that was around three years old and had travelled 
around 53,063 miles.
The price of the car was considerably lower than it would have been if it had been supplied 
new. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car 
might have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need 
repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was 
supplied.
There seems to be little dispute that the car was of unsatisfactory quality due to the loss of 
the power steering. But for the avoidance of doubt, I want to make clear that I also agree the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality and Ill explain why. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect a car to lose its power steering three days after acquiring it. This suggests to me that 
there was a defect with the power steering when the car was supplied to Mrs M. And whilst a 
repair was carried out, Im not persuaded that this repair satisfactorily resolved the matter. 
This is because the fault happened again just four months after the repair.  
Ive then considered whether I think its fair for Mrs M to be charged for the mileage use. I 
accept it is reasonable to expect Mrs M to pay for the use shes had from the car and the 
CRA does indicate that a business is able to deduct or charge sums for the use the 
consumer has had from the car. There is, however, no prescribed formula and each case will 
depend on its own individual circumstances.
 
The terms and conditions of the agreement say an excess mileage charge will be payable if 
you have a Select agreement and if you exceed the maximum contract mileage Ive had a 
look at Mrs Ms hire purchase agreement and also the pre-contract credit information 
document. And I cant see that Mrs M had a Select agreement or that she was subject to a 
mileage allowance. I also cant see that there was a mileage restriction included in the 
monthly payments Mrs M agreed to. Therefore, as Mrs M has paid for the use shes had of 
the car by way of the monthly payments she made towards the agreement, I dont think its 
fair for the dealership to charge Mrs M in the way that they have for the mileage she did.I appreciate BMWFS say theyre not responsible for the charge applied by the dealership as 
theyre a separate business. However, BMWFS financed this agreement and theyre the 
supplier of the goods which makes BMWFS responsible for ensuring the goods were of 
satisfactory quality. Its also for BMWFS to put things right as the responsible party where 
the car has been found to be of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs Ms complaint is against BMWFS 
and any action BMWFS wish to take with the dealership once the complaint has been 
resolved is of no concern to Mrs M. 
Putting things right
Ive already concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and I understand the dealership 
agreed to take the car back. So, BMWFS should arrange for the agreement to be cancelled, 
with nothing further to pay. BMWFS should also arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mrs 
M.
Mrs M has been consistent in telling us she needed her car for work and that she doesnt 
have easy access to public transport because she lives in a rural area. Instead, shes had to 
arrange for alternative means to get to and from work  Mrs M says shes had to sometimes 
use her husbands car where possible which is an inconvenience. Mrs M has also told us 
that as a result of not being able to get to work as easily, shes had to work fewer hours. Its 
clear this has caused a lot of inconvenience to Mrs M and I can imagine it would have been 
very frustrating and stressful for the problem with the power steering to reoccur as it did. I 
also think its very disappointing BMWFS havent done more to resolve Mrs Ms complaint 
and that its still ongoing after some time. Having considered everything, I think BMWFS 
should pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M hasnt been able to use the car since it was returned to the dealership on 
12 December 2019. BMWFS have refunded Mrs M two months worth of repayments 
totalling £333.56. I think this fairly compensates Mrs M for not having use of the car in 
December 2019 and January 2020. However, despite still not having the car, Mrs M has 
continued to make payments towards the agreement. But I dont think its fair for Mrs M to 
have continued to make payments towards a car shes not had use of. So, I think BMWFS 
should refund the monthly payments Mrs M has made towards the finance from February 
2020 to present date.
Mrs M paid for a hire car to remain mobile from 24 December 2019 to 7 January 2020 and 
she paid £222.02 for this. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable that she did this. As 
Mrs M had use of a car, albeit a hire car, I think its reasonable that she pay for that use. 
However, the hire car costs are significantly more than the costs of the hire purchase 
agreement. Mrs M was paying around £166 per month for use of the car under the hire 
purchase agreement. But has paid £222.02 for using the hire car for approximately half of 
one month. I think she should be refunded the additional cost that she would have paid 
under the hire purchase agreement. In this instance, this equates to approximately £84 for 
half of one month. As Mrs M paid £222.02 to use the hire car for two weeks, BMWFS should 
refund £138.02, being the difference between the two amounts. 
I also think that BMWFS should add interest to this amount from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint against BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited t/a Alphera 
Financial Services and I require them to:cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mrs M.
remove information about the agreement from Mrs M's credit file.
refund the £138.02 relating to the additional hire car costs. 
refund the monthly payments Mrs M has paid from February 2020 onwards to reflect 
her inability to use the car.
pay Mrs M 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds calculated from date of payment 
to date of settlement; and
pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited t/a Alphera Financial Services think theyre 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell 
Mrs M how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman