DRN-2455198
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Watford Insurance Company Limited handled his claim after his 
car was vandalised in August 2020.
What happened
Mr Ss claim has been dealt with by claims handlers on behalf of his insurers. As the 
underwriters of his policy are Watford Insurance Company Limited his complaint is against 
them, and Ill refer to them in my decision.
On 1 September 2020 Mr S called Watford to make a claim as his car had been damaged 
during an attempted theft. He called them again, later the same day, to advise them his car 
had been vandalised, and there hadnt been an attempt to steal it. 
During the first call he described the damage as large chips to the windscreen and damage 
to the offside door. When he called again, he said he only wanted to make a claim for his 
damaged windscreen, which had an excess of £75, and he didnt want to make a claim for 
any other damage.
Watford told Mr S that as thered been other damage to his car, not just damage to the 
windscreen, and hed told them his car had been vandalised, his claim couldnt be dealt with 
as a glass damage claim only. 
Mr S was unhappy that Watford wouldnt just accept a claim for damage to his windscreen, 
as this was all he wanted to have repaired, so he raised a complaint. Watford considered his 
complaint but didnt uphold it. They said hed reported the damage to his car as vandalism, 
and the terms and conditions of his policy excluded any claims for such damage, being 
made under his glass damage cover. So they said hed been correctly advised that hed 
have to pay the excess relating to a malicious damage claim.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the 
case but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss policy made it clear, that a claim for malicious damage couldnt be dealt 
with under the glass cover section of the policy. So he felt that Watford had dealt with Mr Ss 
claim fairly.
In response to our investigators opinion Mr S has said that: 
He considers the terms and conditions of the policy to be irrelevant. 
He that he only ever wanted to claim for the damage to his windscreen, but felt he had to 
be honest with his insurers when explaining how the damage had occurred. 
He feels that its unfair that he was expected to pay his malicious damage policy excess 
when he was only claiming for his damaged windscreen.
His policy covers him for damage caused by vandalism, and it wasnt clear, until he 
made his claim what excess applied to a claim.
Hes paid a lot of money for his policy and its unfair that his insurers wont cover his 
claim.
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion the case has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I have to consider the policy terms and conditions. I 
understand that Mr S considers these to be irrelevant, but I dont agree, as they set out the 
details of the contract he entered into when he took out his cover with Watford.
Mr Ss policy schedule sets out details of the excess hes required to pay if he makes a 
claim. His policy excess for accidental and malicious damage is £975, and theres a further 
£200 payable as Mr S is considered a young or inexperienced driver. Theres a separate 
excess of £75 for a windscreen damage claim. But such a claim is subject to the terms and 
condition in section 9 of the policy. This says that No claim can be made under this section 
of the policy for any acts of malicious damage or vandalism. Claims for these incidents shall 
be dealt with under policy section 1. And Section 1 of the policy covers claims for loss or 
damage which are stated to be subject to the excess set out in Mr Ss policy schedule.
Mr S has said that he believes the excess payable if he makes a claim is unclear. But having 
considered his policy and schedule I think the amount of his excess is set out clearly. 
When Mr S made his claim, he told Watford his car had been damaged during an attempted 
theft. He revised this report shortly afterwards, by calling to tell them that he thought it had 
been vandalised. And he reported the incident to the police and was issued with a crime 
number. When he made his claim, he told Watford that his windscreen and offside door had 
been damaged. During the second call to them he told them that he only wanted to claim for 
repairs to his windscreen and pay the £75 excess under his glass cover.  
Mr S has said hes being unfairly penalised for providing full details of how his car was 
damaged. But he has an obligation to provide an accurate account of how the damage hes 
claiming for occurred. This is covered under general policy exclusions, where its stated in 
section 5 If You or anyone acting on Your behalf knowingly commit a fraudulent act or 
submit a fraudulent document or make a fraudulent statement or exaggerate any claim made 
under the Policy, We will not pay the claim and cover under this and all other insurances 
currently in force with Us with which You are connected will cease immediately. You will not 
be entitled to any refund of premium under this or any other Policy with Us. 
 
Mr S told Watford that his car had been vandalised. But he then told them that he only 
wanted to claim for his damaged windscreen, under his glass cover and pay the £75 excess 
applicable to this cover. So, I need to consider whether it was unfair for Watford to say his 
windscreen wasnt covered under the glass cover section of his policy. And I dont think it 
was, as cover for damage caused by malicious acts or vandalism is specifically excluded 
under his glass cover. 
I can understand why Mr S was unhappy that he was being asked to pay an excess which 
was far more than the cost of his windscreen replacement. But while I sympathise with him, 
as he told both us and his insurers, he couldnt afford to pay his excess, the excess is clearly 
set out in his policy and part of the terms and conditions Mr S accepted when he took out his 
policy with Watford. If the excess wasnt an amount he was prepared to accept, he had the 
opportunity to consider this when he received his policy documents and cancel the policy if 
he wished to do so. 
 Mr S has also said that hes paid a lot for his cover and its unfair that Watford wouldnt pay 
his claim. Im not considering the cost of Mr Ss cover, but I would say that they didnt refuse 
to cover his claim, he didnt pursue his claim as the applicable excess he was required to 
pay was more than the cost of replacing his damaged windscreen.
So, I dont accept that Watford acted unreasonably when dealing with Mr Ss claim and I 
wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss claim against 
Watford Insurance company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman