DRN-4462334
The complaint
Mr M complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited (PFS) failed to provide regular 
reviews of his pension within the agreed terms he had with the firm.
What happened
In late 2013 and early 2014 Mr M received advice from PFS to consolidate several of his 
personal pensions into a single personal pension with Scottish Widows.
PFS received an initial fee for their advice. They also received regular fees from the pension 
for on-going advice.
In late 2022 Mr M complained to PFS via a professional representative. He said that 
although he remembers having some meetings with PFS, he was not contacted within the 
agreed terms of his agreement with them. He said PFS had failed in their regulatory 
obligations by failing to carry out reviews which hed been charged for. Mr M asked for a 
refund of all of his fees.
In response PFS said that in the last eight years, since the initial advice in 2014, theyd had 
nine detailed discussions with Mr M around the suitability of his pension. They went on to 
say that during those calls Mr Ms circumstances and the position of his pension were 
discussed. PFS provided a timeline of their contact with Mr M since 2014.
The first part of PFS timeline noted contact with Mr M in; June 2015, May 2016, May 2018 
and January 2020.
Mr M remained unhappy with PFS response and so brought his complaint to our Service. An 
investigator looked into this complaint. She asked PFS for evidence that a review had taken 
place in 2019.
PFS sent our investigator a screenshot from their systems which they say demonstrated 
they attempted to call Mr M in May 2019 for a review.
I sent Mr M and PFS a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said that I didnt think 
PFS had evidenced that theyd provided the service theyd agreed to in 2017 and 2019. Ive 
copied the relevant part of my provisional decision below which forms part of this decision. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws and 
regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance and standards. Where appropriate I 
also consider what was good industry practice at the time of the advice.
What the regulator had said?
As a regulated firm, PFS had many rules and principles that they needed to adhere to when 
providing advice to Mr M. Many of these were found in the regulators handbook under the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) and Principles for Businesses (PRIN).
The most relevant rule to this complaint is;
COBS 6.1A.22
A firm must not use an adviser charge which is structured to be payable by the retail 
client over a period of time unless (1) or (2) applies:
(1) the adviser charge is in respect of an ongoing service for the provision of personal 
recommendations or related services and:
(a) the firm has disclosed that service along with the adviser charge; and 
(b) the retail client is provided with a right to cancel the ongoing service, which must 
be reasonable in all the circumstances, without penalty and without requiring the 
retail client to give any reason; or
(2) the adviser charge relates to a retail investment product for which an instruction 
from the retail client for regular payments is in place and the firm has disclosed that 
no ongoing personal recommendations or service will be provided.
The regulator also produced guidance in the form of an FCA factsheet (For investment 
advisers - Setting out what we require from advisers on how they charge their clients). The 
factsheet said;
Ongoing adviser charges
Ongoing charges should only be levied where a consumer is paying for ongoing 
service, such as a performance review of their investments, or where the product is a 
regular payment one. If you are providing an ongoing service, you should clearly 
confirm the details of the ongoing service, any associated charges and how the client 
can cancel it. This can be written or orally disclosed. You must ensure you have 
robust systems and controls in place to make sure your clients receive the ongoing 
service you have committed to.
While the factsheet wasnt published until late 2014, it didnt mark a change to the rules PFS 
were already expected to follow. The essence of the factsheet, in my view, was to remind 
PFS of the standards that should already have been relevant when inviting Mr M to agree to 
on-going advice.
PFS say they dont have a copy of the specific client agreement that was sent to Mr M when 
he was advised by them. But theyve provided a template of the client agreement used in 
November 2013 which is when they say Mr M would have been sent it.
Regarding on-going advice fees the client agreement says;
We will also discuss our on-going reviews options during our initial consultation. This 
service includes, but is not limited to, providing you with:
 annual reviews to give you peace of mind;
 an opportunity to re-assess your Attitude to Risk;
 an assessment of your plans should your circumstances change; regular updates and information regarding your holdings;
 on-going support with correspondence and administration issues.
The PFS client agreement notes several quite clear services that it would provide Mr M in 
return for its on-going fees in the above bullet points. So, Ive considered whether PFS 
delivered the services it promised to Mr M in its agreement with him.
Mr M seems to broadly accept that he was contacted, and his pension was discussed and 
reviewed with him in line with the timeline contained in PFSs response to his complaint. But, 
he says no review was conducted in 2019, so he asks for a refund of PFS fees for that year. 
So, Ive first considered what happened in 2019.
PFS dont think it would be fair to refund their fees from 2019 as they say they offered Mr M 
a review. They provided evidence in the form of a screenshot of an attempted telephone call. 
But I dont think that goes far enough to demonstrate PFS provided Mr M with the services 
hed agreed to. Ill explain why.
While I acknowledge its likely an attempt was made to call Mr M in 2019, PFSs agreement 
is worded in such a way as to suggest a review will be completed, not simply offered. 
I also take the view that Id only expect PFS to take the on-going charge for a service being 
given and not simply just offered. I say that because the rules say the charge must be in 
respect of an ongoing service  so the service must actually be provided if the charge is 
going to be made.
When considering the specific services PFS said theyd provide Mr M in their client 
agreement Ive seen no evidence that in 2019 his pension was reviewed, or the results of 
that review were shared with him to give him peace of mind.
Similarly, because Mr M was never spoken to, there was no opportunity to re-assess any 
changes to his attitude to risk or his circumstances. And Ive seen no evidence PFS provided 
him with any information on his holdings.
Therefore, I have to conclude that PFS didnt provide Mr M with the on-going service hed 
paid for in 2019, despite PFS accepting the fees from his pension.
Additionally, when reviewing Mr Ms complaint, I asked PFS if they had any evidence that he 
was contacted in 2017. PFS confirmed that they had no record of speaking to Mr M in 2017.
PFS havent been able to provide any evidence that they provided any of the agreed on- 
going services to Mr M in 2017, including any reviews of his pension or assessments of his 
attitude to risk and circumstances. So, for the same reasons as above, PFS also didnt 
provide Mr M the services it agreed to in 2017 either.
Summary
Ive considered the specific rules and guidance from the time. Which means that PFS were 
required to clearly set out the services that it would provide Mr M for the ongoing fee it was 
receiving.
Ive considered the agreement PFS say they had with Mr M for the services it ought to have 
provided. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think that PFS provided Mr M 
with the service that he paid for. He didnt receive annual reviews; assessments of his risk 
attitude or circumstances; or yearly updates on his holdings from PFS in 2017 or 2019. I come to that conclusion based on the specific circumstances of this case and the evidence 
thats been presented.
It follows that I dont think its fair or reasonable for PFS to have taken its adviser charge 
from Mr Ms pension scheme without delivering the service that it had promised him. This 
was an agreement between PFS and Mr M. Put simply, it would be reasonable for PFS to be 
paid the agreed amount for providing a service that had been agreed. But not where that 
service hasnt.
Ive thought carefully about what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right. PFS 
have said To clarify periodic suitability assessments and review calls are only a part of our 
ongoing service and commitment to our customers. We monitor funds for quality and 
suitability and as the customers Pension Advisers, we have been here to answer any 
queries and help with any issues with pension providers, accessing pension benefits and 
changes to pension regulations and more.
PFS have also offered to refund a proportion of the fees from 2017. But I have to consider 
that the regulator asked PFS to clearly set out the services it was going to provide for the 
fees it charged. And Ive seen no evidence PFS provided the majority of the services it set 
out in its client agreement with Mr M  other than the potential for on-going support which Mr 
M didnt require in 2017 or 2019. So, I think the most reasonable outcome is to refund all of 
the fees for the years 2017 and 2019.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr M made no further submissions for me to consider. 
PFS said they didnt agree with my decision. They said an annual review took place in every 
year except 2019 when Mr M was invited to a review, but the review didnt take place. They 
said they cannot force a customer to complete a review. So, they didnt think they should 
refund the fee if Mr M didnt accept their offer. 
Furthermore, PFS said the annual review only made-up part of the service they offered 
Mr M. Their customers also benefited from monitoring of funds for quality and suitability; the 
ability to contact an adviser at any point; yearly updates and information on holdings; and 
ongoing support with correspondence and administration. 
PFS also said my decision differs to others sent by this Service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also re-considered my provisional findings. And having done so, Im still upholding 
Mr Ms complaint for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to note the evidence demonstrates that no review was carried out in either 
2017 or 2019. PFS previously acknowledged theyd had no contact with Mr M in 2017 and 
have produced no new evidence to support their submission that a review took place each 
year except 2019. So, I have no reason to depart from the findings I already made that no 
review was carried out in either 2017 or 2019.
Secondly, its important to note that we assess each case on its own merits. Circumstances and evidence may differ. In this case I have based my decision on what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Its based on the evidence of what has happened in this specific case. 
And I am not bound by determinations given in other cases.
PFS claim that Mr M didnt accept their offer of a review in 2019, and they couldnt force him 
to. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the evidence supports 
PFS view that Mr M was even offered a review in 2019. 
I say that because all PFS have offered in evidence is a contact record showing a call was 
attempted on 31 May 2019. But Ive seen no evidence Mr M was expecting the call in order 
to make himself available, or that he even knew an attempt had been made to contact him. 
Theres no evidence any voicemails were left; any further attempted calls were made; or it 
was followed up with a letter or email. So, I dont think its fair to conclude a review was 
offered to Mr M in 2019.
But even if I were to accept that a review was offered, which I dont, PFS client agreement 
with Mr M was clear. The agreement told Mr M it would provide annual reviews to give you 
peace of mind. So, the agreement was to actually provide Mr M with a review, not simply 
just to offer to review his pension. And Ive seen no evidence that was done in 2017 or 2019.
The FCA said in its factsheet that firms must ensure you have robust systems and controls 
in place to make sure your clients receive the ongoing service you have committed to. I 
dont think that attempting one unscheduled phone call demonstrates that PFS had a robust 
process in place to ensure they were providing Mr M the service theyd agreed to. 
PFS also feel that the review made up only part of the service they offered Mr M. But as Ive 
explained in my provisional decision, PFS had an agreement with Mr M which set out the 
services PFS had agreed to and the majority of those werent provided to Mr M in the years 
of 2017 or 2019. 
The agreement doesnt break down the component charges for each of the services PFS 
agreed to provide, giving Mr M the option to pay for some services but not others. So, Mr M 
only had the option of agreeing to all of the ongoing services or nothing. 
PFS also havent provided any evidence of the other services they say they provided Mr M 
for example yearly updates on his holdings  which is something that Mr Ms pension 
provider would have likely sent him in his annual statements. Mr M would have been paying 
his pension provider a separate fee for the administration of his pension.
Im therefore still of the opinion that the fairest resolution for this complaint is for PFS to 
return Mr Ms pension to the position it would have been in had no fees been taken in 2017 
or 2019.
Putting things right
My intention is to put Mr M, as close as possible, into the position hed have been but for 
PFSs mistake. In this case that means putting Mr Ms pension fund into the position it would 
have been in had the fees not been taken. The pension would have been higher by the value 
of those fees and any investment returns that those fees would have gone on to benefit 
from.
PFS must calculate the loss in value of Mr Ms pension due to the deduction of the fees 
taken in 2017 and 2019. To be clear, this will mean calculating the lost investment returns on 
each fee, based on the actual investment strategy of Mr Ms pension, from the date the fees 
came out to the date that PFS are told that Mr M accepts my decision.When PFS have calculated this total loss to Mr Ms pension (from the fees that should not 
have been paid, and the lost investment returns from those amounts) it should, if possible, 
pay that total loss amount into Mr Ms personal pension. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr M has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of PFS receiving Mr M's acceptance 
of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell PFS how much has been taken off. PFS should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Profile Financial Solutions Limited 
to compensate Mr M in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman