DRN-3121868
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a premium refund request 
following her request to cancel a single trip travel insurance policy.
Mrs L is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs L directly.
What happened
On 5 January 2020, Mrs L took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes for a 
cruise which was due to take place from 5 November until 4 December 2020. 
Mrs L paid a total of £579.83 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level 
of travel insurance cover, which also cover her for a number of declared medical conditions. 
She paid an additional premium of £50.36 (excluding IPT) for cruise plus cover. 
The cost of Mrs Ls policy also included a discount of £54.11, which she received at the point 
she purchased her policy. In total, Mrs L paid £702.13 for her policy including IPT.
On 28 July 2020, the provider of Mrs Ls holiday informed her that it was cancelling her 
holiday due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And on 28 August 2020, Mrs M contacted Great 
Lakes to explain that she wasnt unable to travel on her intended holiday due to the 
pandemic. She requested the cancellation of her policy and a refund of the premium shed 
paid.
Great Lakes informed Mrs L that a full refund couldnt be provided as her 14 day cooling off 
period had expired and, under the terms of her policy, no refund was due. But it said she 
could either change the dates for her policy or receive a pro rata refund by way of a voucher, 
which would be valid for use within 36 months. 
Great Lakes offered Mrs L a voucher for £151.52 which it said represented a pro-rata refund 
of the premiums shed paid. The voucher was valid for 36 months. But Mrs L wasnt happy 
with the offer Great Lakes had made and complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 5 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during 
that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
And they thought it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata refund by 
voucher. But they didnt think that Great Lakes had calculated the credit voucher fairly. And 
to put matters right, our investigator directed Great Lakes to calculate Mrs Ls refund by 
dividing the price she paid for the standard level of cover by the total cover length (in days). 
They then thought Great Lakes should multiply that value by the days Mrs L wasnt on risk. 
And they also thought Great Lakes should refund the cost of the cruised plus cover in full. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and provided a calculation 
showing the revised refund. But Mrs L told our investigator that she wanted a cash refund 
instead of a voucher. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way 
of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
I can see that Mrs L has made our service aware of how other insurers have dealt with travel 
insurance refund requests. But this service considers complaints on an individual basis. So, 
its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mrs L has raised.  
 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Is Mrs L entitled to a full refund of the premium?  
Cover under Mrs Ls policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate she received. Im satisfied 
Mrs L was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to her policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. 
When considering single trip policy refund complaints, our service would expect 
Great Lakes to use the date a holiday was cancelled as the date of cancellation for a policy. So, we think any pro-rata refund should be calculated from the holiday 
cancellation date.
Initially Great Lakes calculated Mrs Ls pro-rata refund from the date she contacted it 
to request a refund  28 August 2020. However, after Mrs L provided our service with 
evidence showing that her holiday was cancelled on 28 July 2020, our investigator 
recommended that Great Lakes backdate the cancellation to this date and it obliged. 
In using the holiday cancellation date as the starting point for any refund calculation, 
Im satisfied that Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably as I think it fairly 
reflects the period of time in which Great Lakes was at risk of paying a claim. It was 
no longer at risk of paying a claim from the date the holiday was cancelled and Im 
satisfied the calculation of the voucher refund now reflects the period that Great 
Lakes covered Mrs L. 
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
 
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mrs L, it used its 
discretion to offer her a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro-rata 
monetary refund. This voucher is valid for 36 months and our service would view this 
as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which Mrs L can use it towards future travel insurance 
policies she may wish to take out. The voucher is also transferrable.
Here Mrs L has told our investigator that shed prefer a pro-rata monetary refund as 
an alternative to a credit voucher. I can understand why a cash settlement may be 
preferable. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs Ls health has 
deteriorated to the point that it might preclude future travel. And I can see she was 
prepared to travel in 2020 with the health conditions she declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in 
offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from 
industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mrs L because of the 
unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. I 
therefore think its offer of a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
Ive carefully looked at whether the amount initially offered by Great Lakes to Mrs L 
was fair and reasonable. 
As Ive already mentioned, Mrs L was given a discount of £54.11 at the point of sale. 
Ive seen the refund calculation formula initially used by Great Lakes, but, like our 
investigator, I dont agree this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
When Great Lakes initially calculated the refund it offered Mrs L, this was based on it 
removing the discount she received at the end of the calculation. Its starting point 
was to add the discount onto the price Mrs L paid. It then subtracted the additional 
cover cost and divided this amount by the 335 days of cover Mrs L had purchased. It 
then multiplied that sum by the number of days she wasnt on risk and subtracted the 
discount shed received. Im not persuaded that this calculation led to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can see that Great Lakes has now offered to issue 
Mrs L with a voucher in line with our investigators recommendation as to how it 
should resolve this complaint and its put forward a revised refund offer. It says this 
sum is £249.02 including IPT.
Ive carefully checked the calculation its provided and am satisfied its correct. I say 
this because Great Lakes revised offer has been calculated by dividing the price Mrs 
L paid for the standard level of cover by the total cover length (335 days). It has then 
multiplied that value by the days Mrs L wasnt on risk (130 days). 
Should Mrs L receive a refund of the Additional Cover Option she purchased? 
I can also see that when Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mrs L it didnt 
include any refund for the additional cover shed purchased. I dont think that was fair 
and reasonable. 
Ive already mentioned that Mrs L paid for optional cruise plus cover. This provides a 
benefit to a policyholder in the event of a missed port departure, cabin confinement, 
itinerary change, unused excursions and cruise interruption. So, this cover would 
only have provided a benefit to Mrs L in the event of a claim occurring whilst she was 
on her holiday. As she didnt travel, Great Lakes didnt ever cover the risk of a claim 
being made under this additional cover option. So, it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mrs L to receive a full refund of the premium and IPT she paid for this cover.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for 
the additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be 
difficult to tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mrs L didnt 
travel on her planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under 
the additional cover options attached to her single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional 
cover options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus 
getting extra cover at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the 
case here, as Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19.
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been 
calculated on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the 
policy. However, the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip 
insurance policy, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the 
additional cover options which Mrs L paid for any differently. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think Great Lakes should refund 
£60.43 by voucher, which is the cost Mrs L paid for cruise plus cover including IPT.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Great Lakes should issue Mrs L with a credit voucher refund for 
£309.45, which includes the following:
A pro-rata refund (plus pro-rata IPT) of the premium she paid for the basic single trip 
insurance policy from the date her holiday was cancelled;
A full refund (plus IPT) of the premium she paid for cruise plus cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mrs Ls complaint, Great 
Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman