DRN-3290781
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Ms director, Mr N, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 on 29 January 2021. The bank 
declined its application and emailed Mr N on 9 February to confirm this.
After speaking with the bank about its decision, Mr N submitted a second application on Ms 
behalf for a lower loan amount of £21,230 on 12 February. Unbeknownst to Mr N, HSBC 
cancelled the second application  believing it to be a duplicate of the first. 
Mr N only discovered that the second application had been cancelled when following up on 
the matter in late March. He raised a complaint and made a third application, but HSBC said 
that it was unable to consider Ms application further and its original decision to decline the 
request would remain unchanged. 
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme closed to new applications on 31 March 2021.
Mr N referred the matter to us as he thought HSBC should reconsider Ms application. He 
said hed submitted the second application at the banks suggestion and that it had 
reassured him it was in progress when hed called for updates. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He said that while HSBCs decision to 
decline Ms first application had been reasonable, the bank had made an error in cancelling 
the second one instead of properly assessing it. As HSBC explained that the request 
wouldnt have been approved, he didnt think that the bank needed to take any further action 
in respect of the loan application. But he thought M had been put to some inconvenience in 
chasing up the further applications in the absence of proper updates from the bank, so he 
recommended that HSBC pay M compensation of £100  which it agreed to do.
Mr N still thought M had been unfairly deprived of the financial support it needed in light of 
the pandemic. He said HSBC had misled the company as to its eligibility for the loan, 
causing a lot of distress and inconvenience for which £100 wasnt sufficient compensation. 
So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
I understand that Mr N doesnt dispute HSBCs decision to decline the first application, which 
failed the banks checks. So I wont comment on this at any length, other than to say that I 
have reviewed the basis of the banks decision and am satisfied that it was reasonable. 
The problem came with the second application, which was cancelled without proper 
consideration  and which HSBC failed to keep Mr N informed. The application wasnt a 
duplicate, it was a fresh application that included some different information. And I 
understand that Mr N reapplied at the banks suggestion after he called the bank to discuss 
a way forward in light of its original decision  so I can see why it is all the more frustrating 
for him that it was prematurely dismissed. I dont think that was bad or misleading advice on 
HSBCs part  rather it was a sensible way forward in the circumstances. The error was in 
failing to properly assess the subsequent application.
HSBC has since reviewed Ms further application and confirmed that it wouldnt have been 
approved. Having considered its rationale for this, I think its decision is in line with the rules 
and requirements of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. So M wouldnt have obtained the loan 
it sought from HSBC, even if the bank hadnt made an error in cancelling its second 
application.
I accept that M may have been able to approach an alternative lender for a Bounce Back 
Loan if HSBC had properly assessed the application and/or confirmed its position sooner. 
But while its hard for me to say with any certainty, I think its unlikely that the company 
wouldve been successful in obtaining a loan elsewhere. It wouldve had very limited time in 
which to do so, given the impending closure of the Scheme  and, by this time, few lenders 
were still accepting applications (particularly from new customers). 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think M has lost out as a result of HSBCs error. The 
company is, ultimately, in the same position that it wouldve been in if things had gone as 
they should have done. So while Im sorry to read of the financial difficulties that Mr N has 
told us about, I dont think these are a consequence of anything HSBC did.  
I do, though, think M was put to some avoidable inconvenience. The second application was 
cancelled shortly after receipt, but Mr N wasnt advised of this and so contacted the bank for 
an update on a number of occasions in the weeks that followed  and was led to believe that 
the application was in progress. This was all unnecessary and took Mr N from running his 
business. So its right that the company is compensated for this. To that end, I think £100 is 
fair.
I know Mr N doesnt think this level of compensation is sufficient. But that is primarily 
because of Ms financial difficulty that he traces back to being deprived of the Bounce Back 
Loan  which, for the reasons set out above, I dont think the company was ever going to 
get. The compensation is, therefore, only for the inconvenience M was caused in having to 
chase up the abortive application unnecessarily  and I think that £100 is fair for this in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay M compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ben JenningsOmbudsman