DRN-2232826
The complaint
Mr F complains that the loan he had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr F took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 30 March 2019. He borrowed £400 and 
was due to repay £91.42 monthly for 18 months, finishing on 30 September 2020.
Mr F says that he had multiple short-term loans when he applied for the loan from 
Loans 2 Go. He says that Loans 2 Go should have realised he couldnt afford the 
repayments as he was in a short-term loan trap. Mr F adds that he feels that Loans 2 Go 
took advantage of his situation by charging an obscene interest rate. He says he had to 
borrow further to make the repayments and his debt spiralled out of control due to the loan 
term and the interest rate.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a thorough affordability assessment which included verifying 
Mr Fs declared income and checking his credit file. It says that although it needed to adjust 
both his declared income and credit expenditure, it still found the loan repayments to be 
affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that she wasnt 
satisfied Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks. She said, had it done so, its 
likely to have found Mr Fs expenditure substantially exceeded his income. Our adjudicator 
found Mr F had borrowed over £4,000 from short term loan providers in the lead up to the 
Loans 2 Go loan and was spending significant amounts on gambling. She said Mr F was 
consistently being charged for his overdraft and had a returned direct debit in the month 
before the loan.
So our adjudicator concluded that sufficient checks would have shown Loans 2 Go that 
further lending was unsustainable and recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any 
payments Mr F made from the principal, and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. She 
said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr Fs 
credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it considered its checks were proportionate 
given the loan and repayments were a small proportion of Mr Fs income. It added that Mr F 
should have been aware of his obligations not to give false information, given his position at 
a Finance Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated company.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr F. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Fs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Mr Fs financial circumstances, 
checked his credit file and verified his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Loans 2 Gos analysis showed significant discrepancies between its checks and Mr Fs 
declared income and credit expenditure;
I can see Loans 2 Go increased Mr Fs declared credit expenditure by over £1,000, 
based on its checks. But it still estimated that Mr Fs disposable income each month was 
around £460 which I dont consider to be consistent with the need for a high cost loan of 
£400;
The credit check showed:
oMr F was utilising 93% of the credit limits on his six credit cards;
oHe had already borrowed £5,000 since December 2018;
This included two short-term loans, one of which was taken out the month 
before the Loans 2 Go application;
oA bank account with an overdraft almost up to its £2,500 limit.
For the above reasons, I consider Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Fs financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure. I 
acknowledge what Loans 2 Go says about Mr Fs job and his obligations not to give false 
information, but this doesnt change its requirement to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Fs bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable 
proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mr Fs finances in more 
depth:
Mr Fs income was roughly in line with the £3,000 hed declared, although I acknowledge 
that Loans 2 Go had adjusted it downwards based upon its own checks;
As well as the two longer term loans reflected on Mr Fs credit file, he owed money to at 
least seven other short-term loan companies at the time of the loan application, of which 
only two were showing on the credit file;
He was regularly having direct debits returned;
There was a payment to a debt recovery company;
Mr F was regularly gambling over £3,000 per month.In summary, Mr Fs bank statements clearly showed he was struggling to manage his money 
in the lead up to the Loans 2 Go loan. He wasnt making any real inroads to his existing debt 
levels (his credit cards were all at or near their limits) and had recently taken on additional 
expensive debt.
So Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks were very likely to have shown it was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr F and Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision, although I 
cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
But I do find that Mr F was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan and that Loans 2 
Go was wrong to lend to him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loan;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges, apply the refund to reduce any capital 
outstanding and pay any balance to Mr F;
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman