DRN-2978419
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society. Shes 
unhappy with the service she received when she asked Nationwide help her obtain a refund 
for a cancelled holiday.
What happened
Mrs O purchased a holiday in January 2020. She paid the £200 deposit with her Nationwide 
debit card, and she paid the balance, £1,452, a month later using her Nationwide credit card. 
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary travel and the country then 
went in to a full national lockdown. The travel company then cancelled Mrs Os holiday but 
said it wouldnt provide a refund; instead it would give Mrs O a credit voucher which she 
could use towards a future holiday. Mrs O didnt want a voucher, so she contacted 
Nationwide at the end March to ask it to help her get her money back. She told us:
On 27 March she contacted Nationwide to lodge a claim with it under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act. But Nationwide told her it would retrieve her money by 
chargeback;
because it took this approach, she had to lodge two claims with it  one for the 
deposit paid with her debit card and one for the balance that shed paid with her 
credit card;
she complained to Nationwide that it hadnt dealt with her claim under Section 75, 
which she says is her legal right; and that by dealing with her claim as a chargeback, 
the process was totally ineffective.
Nationwide confirmed that it started the claims process for the £200 deposit on 3 April and it 
needed to ask Mrs O for some additional information on 28 April. At the same time, it 
explained it was experiencing delays with processing these types of claims due to the 
unprecedented situation.
It says it was able to apply a temporary refund to Mrs Os account on 30 April whilst it 
completed its investigation into the claim she had made. And in due course this temporary 
refund became permanent. Nationwide acknowledged that the service it had provided 
shouldve been better. It apologised for the poor service and credited Mrs Os account with 
£50.
On 1 June, Nationwide contacted Mrs O to confirm it had been successful with its claim in 
respect of the £1,452 shed paid to the travel company using her credit card. It confirmed 
that this sum had been removed from her account and the corresponding refund would 
appear on her next statement.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld, and she 
asked Nationwide to pay Mrs O a further £50 compensation for the poor service shed been 
given. She said it couldve handled the claim better and updated Mrs O more regularly about 
her claim. She acknowledged it had paid £50 in respect of the claim made for the debit card 
payment, and she asked it to pay the same amount in respect of the claim for the credit card 
payment.
Our investigator considered Mrs Os complaint about Nationwide deciding to claim the 
refunds under the chargeback scheme instead of allowing her to make her claim under 
Section 75. But she rejected this aspect of Mrs Os complaint, explaining that there are a 
number of ways a bank can assist its customers when theyve had issues with goods or 
services not being provided. And that it wasnt uncommon for a bank to raise a chargeback 
first, and then, if thats declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under Section 75. 
But she reassured Mrs O that it would not make a material difference if the bank were to 
choose to follow one route over the other. She said Mrs O had received a full refund within 
three months of contacting Nationwide, and shed seen no evidence that, had Nationwide 
chosen a different route, Mrs O wouldve received her refund any sooner.
Nationwide agreed with these findings and the recommendation to pay Mrs O a further £50.
Mrs O disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs O says it was her legal right 
to make a claim under Section 75 and that by choosing to make a claim under the 
chargeback scheme, it caused her significant delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for the same reasons.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mrs O received from Nationwide. This is because although Mrs O disputed two 
payments to the travel company, both parties have now confirmed that these amounts have 
now been refunded back to Mrs O.
It might be helpful if I explain that making claims under the chargeback scheme or under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act are not a guarantee that a consumer will recover their 
money. And its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising a 
chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under 
Section 75. Usually, it wont make too much of a difference as to which route a bank follows, 
so long as the bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds
But, in bringing a claim against a bank, a customer cant instruct the bank how to deal with 
that claim , thats a matter, in this case, for Nationwide. Im satisfied that it took one of the 
routes available to it to address Mrs Os claim. Its therefore not necessary for this Service to 
comment further on the method Nationwide chose  it successfully secured refunds for 
Mrs O and settled matters satisfactorily.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Nationwide to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mrs O. 
Shed booked and paid a considerable sum for a holiday, and from what shes told us, her 
experience wouldve understandably caused her some anxiety. But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the travel company, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mrs O first contacted Nationwide, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Nationwide has already paid Mrs O £50 in recognition of the mistakes it made 
when she first contacted it and the failings in the service it provided, and its agreed to pay a 
further £50 to her following our investigators recommendation. And although I wouldve 
expected Nationwide to identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate 
support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mrs O fell into this category. So, 
for the reasons given. Im satisfied that a further payment of £50, taking the total 
compensation to £100, is fair and reasonable and I dont think Nationwide needs to do 
anything more.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs O the additional compensation it 
agreed to pay her, if it hasnt already done so. Thats the additional £50 in recognition of the 
poor service it provided. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint and I dont think Nationwide Building Society needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs O £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman