DRN-2679774
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) provided when he 
claimed under his policy for a faulty boiler.
What happened
Mr S had HomeCare Four home emergency cover with BG for a property he lets. He 
reported a boiler fault caused by poor pressure which BG repaired. Mr Ss tenant then 
complained that the water temperature was fluctuating between warm and cold. Mr S says 
that BG didnt fix the fault and the boiler started leaking.
Mr S complained to BG about several issues, summarised here:
BG only attended three visits despite arranging eight;
engineers failed to call before visiting;
engineers left cards saying they visited without trying to get access;
confusion about whether a powerflush had been done;
BG attended for an unplanned reflush;
when asked for more details, BG had no record of planning a reflush;
BG claimed thered been a break in cover;
unprofessional staff behaviour, and 
he believes the cover hasnt been delivered as promised.
BG investigated Mr Ss concerns and said:
its engineers hadnt been able to gain access on five occasions; 
trackers showed that engineers had been outside Mr Ss house on those five 
occasions;
it had no record of completing a powerflush;
Mr S told BG he had evidence of the powerflush, but he didnt provide it;
thered been a break in service of a few years;
there was no evidence of a boiler leak when its engineers attended.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the evidence suggested engineers 
hadnt been able to gain access; they had reported the cause of the boiler leak as rain water 
ingress, and that BG had responded appropriately to Mr Ss complaint about the powerflush 
and customer service.
Mr S didnt agree. He thought that his evidence hadnt been considered and he said he had 
proof of payment for the powerflush and policy premiums despite BG saying he hadnt paid.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
While I realise this will not be the outcome Mr S hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Im aware that Mr S feels strongly about this matter and he feels let down by the 
service BG provided. I can sympathise with him, especially as the issues hes raised have 
taken up a lot of his time. But I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest that BG has 
done anything substantially wrong. Ill explain.
Mr Ss complaint covers many issues, all of which are well known to both parties. There 
seems little benefit in repeating each point in detail, so Ill cover the key points and the 
complaint as a whole. I must stress, that while I may not specifically mention a piece of 
information provided, I have taken it into consideration in reaching my decision.
The underlying issue is that Mr S doesnt think BG properly attended to the boiler leak and 
water temperature problems he reported. BG says its engineers didnt find any evidence of a 
leak.
Mr Ss policy covered him for, Boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair 
basis and plumbing, drains and home electrics on a repair only basis, so Im satisfied that a 
leak and temperature fault wouldve been covered.
BG hasnt said it wouldnt cover the leak  it said its engineers couldnt identify a leak 
originating from the boiler. The available evidence shows that engineers who attended to 
investigate the reported leak saw that rainwater was coming through the roof into the boiler. 
The notes say that it was the fourth time that same diagnosis had been made. In response to 
this, Mr S provided a roofers report stating that there was no damage to his roof so water 
wouldnt be getting through; a report from a Gas Safe engineer who reported that there was 
internal corrosion, and a video showing water dripping from a boiler.
I appreciate there is quite a bit of conflicting evidence here but, on balance, I cant 
reasonably say BG did anything wrong. BG investigated Mr Ss report of a leak and couldnt 
find a source other than, what it believed to be, rainwater. The job notes show that BG also 
identified significant internal corrosion a few years earlier, but still no evidence of a leak. The 
video Mr S provided shows water dripping from the top of the boiler, running to the edge of 
the metal plate and dripping to the floor. I cant see that it shows anything other than water 
on the outside of the boiler, rather than water leaking from inside. 
The independent Gas Safe engineer who reported internal corrosion recommended a new 
boiler and provided a quote. I understand that Mr S had a new boiler installed a few weeks 
later. As any evidence of a leak is no longer available, Ive thought about whether BG had 
any responsibility towards Mr S if it had also reported that the boiler was no longer viable. 
Mr Ss policy says:
Boiler and controls
Whats covered
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
Its less than seven years old
Or, its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare agreement
So, BG offers cover for a replacement boiler if it is unable to fix it, but only in the above 
circumstances. Mr Ss boiler was more than ten years old, so he wasnt covered for a 
replacement boiler regardless of whether he had continuous cover with BG. On balance, I dont think that anything BG did in respect of the leak caused Mr S any 
material loss. Thats because even if it had found a leak, the outcome is likely to have been 
the same  that Mr S needed a new boiler.
The next issue is that BG checked the water temperature, bled the radiators, and 
recommended a powerflush. Mr S says BG had already done a powerflush, so he thought he 
should be covered under his policy if it needed to be done again. BG denied having flushed 
the system.
BG offered a guarantee for powerflushes which wouldve meant that Mr S didnt need to pay 
for a reflush. However, BG couldnt find any record of billing for and carrying out a flush, or of 
Mr S paying for one. Mr S provided a copy of a worksheet from eight years before which 
said:
Parts fitted this visit - Powerflush
Recommendations - System flush
The quote left box was ticked.
I appreciate that this looks like a powerflush was completed, but it also says a system flush 
was recommended and a quote left. Ive compared that with the job records BG provided 
dating back to the start of the policy but theres no record of a power flush being carried out. 
Although Mr S says he has evidence that he paid for a powerflush, he hasnt provided it for 
me to consider. On balance, I think its unlikely that BG completed a powerflush because its 
records do not include any reference to it and Mr S has not provided any contradictory 
evidence. The circumstances here are unfortunate, but beyond the unclear worksheet, which 
I consider a relatively minor issue, I cant see that BG did anything wrong. 
This leads to the next issue which is Mr Ss claim that there was no break in his policy with 
BG. BG says there was a break in cover of around four years. This is of significance 
because if BG had carried out a powerflush, Mr S thinks he wouldve been covered for a 
reflush under the policy guarantee. 
The policy states:
British Gas Powerflush
Over time, gas central heating systems build up sludge that can block or narrow your 
pipes, radiators and boiler parts. British Gas Powerflush is our way of removing that 
sludge from your system. Well tell you if your system needs a powerflush to work 
properly. Youll need to pay for it separately  it isnt included in your cover. If you buy a 
British Gas Powerflush, any future ones you may need to keep your system working 
properly are included, for as long as you have continuous cover for your boiler with us.
Mr S says he has evidence of paying premiums for the period BG says there was a break in 
cover. However, he hasnt provided any evidence of payments for me to consider. In the 
absence of any policy letters, landlord certificates or evidence of payments for the period in 
question, I can only conclude that there was a break in cover.
So, whether or not BG wouldve provided a reflush under guarantee if Mr S did in fact pay for 
a first power flush is irrelevant now. Thats because Im satisfied there was a break in the 
policy cover, so a repeat flush was excluded under the terms and conditions. 
Mr S complained about several issues specifically relating to BGs engineers. He says BG:
only attended three out of eight planned appointments;didnt call before attending;
missed appointments because they just sat outside in the van, without knocking, and 
then left a missed appointment card;
turned up unannounced to complete a powerflush, and
attended outside the appointment window.
Mr S thinks the engineers missed appointments on purpose and maliciously.
BG provided details of the engineers who attended the appointments and said they often 
reported an inability to gain access.
Under the section titled Your Responsibilities, Mr Ss policy states:
Getting into your property
Its your responsibility to give us access to your property. If we cant get access we wont 
be able to complete the work and its then up to you to arrange another appointment. 
If you dont re-arrange the appointment, your agreement will still continue. 
After several failed attempts to get into your property, we may cancel your agreement 
but well let you know beforehand.
So, Ive compared BGs job records, created at the time of the visits, with Mr Ss account of 
events. In the six months before BGs final visit to investigate the reported leak, I can see 
that there were thirteen appointments. BG was unable to gain access on seven separate 
dates, one of those dates including a repeat failed attempt, and it carried out work on the 
other six dates. The records show that:
engineers left voicemails or didnt get an answer on the phone; 
there was no answer when they knocked at the door;
they waited 15 minutes, then posted a card, 
or the tenant declined the visit. 
The notes were logged by five different engineers, some of whom were able to gain access 
and carry out work at previous or subsequent appointments at Mr Ss property. Ive also 
seen BGs engineer location records and I can see that five different engineers were parked 
outside Mr Ss property around the time of the appointments. 
I understand that Mr Ss tenant went outside to bring a BG engineer in for the appointment. 
That leads me to wonder whether, perhaps, the tenant wasnt able to answer the door 
quickly enough on other occasions. Regardless, I think BGs evidence is persuasive 
because I think its unlikely that, not one, but five different engineers wouldve sat outside Mr 
Ss property and yet purposely avoided attending appointments. So, on balance, I think BG 
tried to gain access when it said it did and with that in mind, I dont think it would be fair to 
say BG acted maliciously.
As a side point, Mr S said he turned away an engineer who arrived, unannounced, to 
complete a powerflush. Mr S provided the engineers name and phone number and the date 
of the visit. The records show that the named engineer did attend Mr Ss property, but it was 
several weeks after the date Mr S provided, and he carried out work on that day. Theres no 
evidence that he attended on a previous date for a powerflush or otherwise. That said, I 
have no reason to doubt Mr Ss recollection. But, if he had attended and been turned away, I 
dont think it has any material impact on the matter. 
The final point Ill address is Mr Ss complaint about BGs customer service in relation to his 
claim. He says that BGs agents acted unprofessionally. BG disagrees. Ive listened to the available call recording and I didnt hear BGs agent say anything to 
cause me concern. Mr S was evidently unhappy with the way the conversation was going, 
but I think the agent remained calm and professional throughout, even when Mr Ss 
frustration showed through his equally calm manner. I dont doubt that Mr S felt upset with 
the situation - its not uncommon for a customer to be frustrated with an agent when the 
conversation isnt going as they might hope. But, in the absence of any evidence that the 
agent acted unprofessionally, I see no reason to ask BG to do anything more here.   
In summary, I think this has been a difficult time for Mr S and I can sympathise with the 
frustration he mustve felt. To some extent the matter was out of his control because his 
property was tenanted and he relied on some communication via the tenant, and their 
availability for appointments. Im also aware that the boiler was quite old and, given the 
many appointments to repair it over the previous few years, its evident it had reached the 
point of being beyond economical repair. But, with all that said, I cant see any evidence to 
show that BG did anything wrong in handling his claim. I dont think theres anything here for 
BG to resolve.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr S didnt agree and he provided further evidence for consideration, including bank 
statements, Gas Safety certificates and a power flush checklist dated 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering the additional evidence Mr S supplied, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint.
I asked Mr S to provide Gas Safety certificates or bank statements showing payments to BG 
for the period where the break in cover is disputed. Although Mr S provided many bank 
statements and seven certificates, none of the evidence related to the period I had asked for. 
Despite a further request to him, Mr S was unable to provide evidence of continued cover. 
Mr S also supplied a bank statement showing a payment to BG dated two weeks after he 
said it had completed a power flush in 2011. I asked BG to look again, to see whether it had 
recorded the payment Mr S made but, due to the time that had passed, it no longer had 
payment records available. Ive thought carefully about whether the payment makes a 
difference to my provisional decision and Ive decided that it doesnt. Thats because the 
work records dont show a power flush completed at Mr Ss property, and theres no 
evidence what the payment was for. And as he has service agreements with BG for other 
rental properties, I cant conclude that the payment relates to this property.
Finally, Mr S provided a copy of a power flush checklist dated 2016. The checklist included 
the engineers name, employee number and in the comments box it said reflush of boiler 
and heating system. However, after checking the details with BG, it provided evidence that 
the employee number wasnt that of the engineer; there was no record of a visit completed 
on the date recorded on the checklist, and it pointed out that N/A was recorded in the 
Which appliance did we check? box. Overall, I dont think the evidence Mr S supplied shows that there was no break in cover, or 
demonstrates that a power flush was completed at this property. As he hasnt provided me 
with anything conclusive, Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional decision is 
warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman