DRN-3551552
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund a withdrawal where she says the 
cash did not dispense.
What happened
In October 2021, Ms G used an ATM. She says she asked for £100 twice, and it did not 
dispense.
Santander checked the cash machines records with its owner, and concluded that the cash 
had dispensed correctly.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that based on the evidence, it really did look like the cash had dispensed correctly.
Ms G didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Ms G put in her card and PIN and asked to 
withdraw £200 in one go. The withdrawal was approved, Ms Gs card was returned, the £200 
was dispensed, and the money was taken a few seconds later. According to the records, the 
machine did not experience any errors or shut down.
The customers before and after Ms G were also able to use the machine without any issues, 
and the next customer was only about 15 seconds afterwards. The cash machine does not 
appear to have had any problems at the time. Indeed, Ms G mentioned that she used it 
again herself shortly afterwards without any issue.
If the ATM had not actually dispensed the £200, then Id expect it to have had £200 or so of 
extra cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was later checked for balancing, the 
ATM analyst confirmed that it balanced correctly  there was no extra money inside it at all. 
This also strongly suggests that the cash was dispensed properly.
Ms G suggested there might have been an error on Santanders end. But Im satisfied from 
Santanders technical evidence that the withdrawal used Ms Gs genuine card and PIN and 
went through successfully without any error on their end.
So the evidence I have strongly supports that Ms G asked for £200 and that the cash 
machine gave it out. And Ive not seen anything which shows or substantiates that the cash 
did not get dispensed. So I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Santander to refund the 
withdrawal. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Ms G to receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
Lastly, I understand that Ms G was unhappy with how Santander dealt with things on the 
phone. But having listened to the calls in question, I think Santanders staff broadly handled 
things well in the circumstances, and did not do anything that would warrant compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman