DRN-2653973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1992. The policy was taken out during a 
meeting in one of the banks branches. The policy was taken out in Mr Bs name only and 
was designed to cover Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. The policy provided Mr B with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree, saying, in summary, that:
They didnt need the policy. They would have benefitted from not having to pay for it.
Bradford & Bingley didnt explain the policy and the costs and benefits werent made 
clear.
Its not clear why the adjudicator thought Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the 
policy.
Theres no evidence to show that the policy was optional, or that they were told they 
could buy a policy from another provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Bradford & Bingley has very limited paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a 
record of what took place. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so 
long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs B say theres no evidence to show that the policy was optional. I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed during the meeting and, as noted earlier, the bank hasnt been 
able to provide all of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs B would have seen at the time of the 
sale. Ive considered what it has been able to provide, and Ive taken into account what we 
know about how Bradford & Bingley sold PPI around this time. Having done so, and without 
stronger evidence to show the bank didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and 
Mrs B didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Bradford & Bingley told us it didnt recommend the PPI. But in its final response to Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint, it concludes that the policy was suitable for your circumstances, which 
suggests that it may have advised Mr and Mrs B to take the policy. To be fair to Mr and 
Mrs B, I will consider the complaint to the higher standard of an advised sale. This means 
Bradford & Bingley had to make sure the policy was suitable for their needs. 
It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Bs name only. He was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the policy terms and conditions.
Although Mrs B was working, Mr B was the main wage earner. If Mrs B wasnt able to 
work, I think its likely that Mr B could have managed to meet the mortgage payments 
from his income. But if he couldnt work, it was unlikely that Mrs Bs income would have 
been enough to maintain the payments. So I think it was suitable that the policy was 
taken out in his sole name.
Mr B recalls he would have received at least six months pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And that he and Mrs B had some savings. 
When the PPI was sold, it would have paid out for up to 24 months* in the event of a 
successful claim for accident or sickness in addition to Mr Bs sick pay. It also covered 
him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs Bs home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the 
repayments. And, whilst they had some savings, the PPI was intended to be in place for 
the lifetime of the mortgage. Its likely those savings may have been ear-marked for 
another purpose and the PPI would have enabled them to continue to pay their mortgage 
whilst keeping their savings intact. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit, in 
addition to Mr and Mrs Bs existing arrangements.  
(* This was reduced to 12 months from July 1993.)
Mr and Mrs B told us that Mr B had also received an inheritance. But this wasnt a readily 
realisable cash asset  hed inherited a property which would have taken time to sell and 
was unlikely to be a practical means of paying their mortgage. So this doesnt make a 
difference to my conclusion.
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B 
before they agreed to purchase it. Its possible they werent told the cost until after the 
policy had started. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer information about 
the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Bs decision to purchase the policy. They would 
have known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Bradford & Bingleys 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman