DRN-4311559
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sent a bank statement to 
her ex-husband which resulted in him being able to work out where she lived. Mrs H says 
this has had a significant impact on her and her childrens health and wellbeing both 
mentally and financially and doesnt believe the level of compensation Nationwide has 
offered is enough.
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs H left her marital home due to domestic violence and moved into 
temporary accommodation. Mrs H visited a branch of Nationwide in May and explained her 
circumstances and emphasised the need for her ex-husband to not know her whereabouts 
or have access to her online banking. Because Mrs Hs accommodation was temporary it 
was agreed to make Mrs Hs account paperless.
In August Mrs H discovered that her bank statements for May, June and July had been sent 
to her former marital home and that although the statements didnt show her address, her 
ex-husband now had an idea about where she was living due to the transactions shown on 
the statements.
It was decided Mrs H and her children needed to move and spent five nights in hotel 
accommodation before they were moved to another temporary home for a month. Following 
this Mrs H moved again on 15 September. 
Mrs H says at this point she was no longer worried at being found by her ex-husband but 
she struggled with support in the area, so Mrs H was moved by the council to another area 
in October 2022. Following this Mrs H was concerned about her daughters mental health 
and missing school she felt she had no choice but to send her back to live with her ex-
husband.
Mrs H complained to Nationwide that it breached confidentiality and data protection 
regulations. Nationwide accepted responsibility for the mistake and offered £4,000 
compensation. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service.
She says that Nationwides mistake has had a significant impact on her and her childrens 
health and wellbeing, both mentally and financially. In particular she says she has suffered 
financially due to:
extra living costs including internet and food while living in the hotel due to lack of 
cooking facilities;
extra travel costs in taxis and train fares to visit her daughter and appointments 
regarding her situation;
her child benefit was cut when her daughter stopped living with her, yet she still had 
to continue to pay for her necessities;
some of the temporary housing she was provided with was unsuitable without basic 
white goods and being next to a train station affected her sleep;
Moving and storage costs for her furniture when she had to leave. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
compensation Nationwide had offered was fair and in-line with what wed usually 
recommend in situations such as hers and that they didnt think it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to compensate Mrs H for events that have happened that were outside of its 
control.
Mrs H disagreed, she believes there has been insufficient acknowledgement of the 
emotional stress Nationwides mistake has caused and that the £4,000 doesnt even cover 
the financial impact. Mrs H wants £20,000 in compensation and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I hope Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive summarised her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ive no doubt that Mrs H and her children have been through a traumatic 
time which had already had a significant impact on their mental health and wellbeing and 
Nationwides error only compounded things and made their situation worse. I applaud Mrs H 
for taking the brave steps she did to secure hers and her childrens futures.
Nationwide have already accepted it made a mistake which led to Mrs Hs ex-husband 
figuring out where she lived. So what I need to consider is whether the £4,000 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused Mrs H is enough. I should note here that 
this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role 
isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  my role is simply 
to decide whether Nationwides offer is a fair and reasonable way to settle Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
I have considered everything provided including the supporting statement provided by Mrs 
Hs son and daughter and having done so Ive decided  and I know this will come as a 
disappointment   that the offer of £4,000 compensation is fair. I think the £4,000 is a 
significant level of compensation to reflect the impact and serious nature of Nationwides 
mistake and one that I think is in-line with what wed recommend in situations such as this. 
I appreciate Mrs H doesnt believe this covers the financial losses shes suffered including 
what has been outlined in the background above. Mrs H and those supporting her were in no 
doubt that she had to move when her ex-husband was able to figure out where she was 
living. And I accept this was the case. 
But although Nationwide made a serious mistake, this wasnt the start or cause of Mrs Hs 
difficult personal circumstances.
I note that Mrs H and her children were already living in temporary accommodation  so she 
was always going to have to move. Though I accept it wouldnt have had to have been at 
such short notice with the fear and anxiety surrounding the reason for the move. And 
fortunately, Mrs Hs ex-husband  as far as Im aware  never took advantage of the 
knowledge he gained from receiving Mrs Hs bank statements.I accept that Mrs Hs living costs while staying at the hotel increased due to not having 
access to cooking facilities and that there may have been some extra travel costs. But again, 
the increase in costs were temporary and Mrs H is always going to have living costs 
regardless of where she lives.
I appreciate that some of the accommodation found for Mrs H was unsuitable, but this was 
not within Nationwides control and wasnt a direct result of its mistake. 
So although I agree Mrs H and her childrens lives have been disrupted and they have 
suffered - and I sympathise with them. I dont think Nationwides mistake was the sole cause 
of this. And as Ive already explained my role isnt to penalise or punish Nationwide for its 
mistake  it is simply in this case to determine whether the £4,000 compensation offered to 
settle Mrs Hs complaint is fair. And I think it is.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that the £4,000 compensation offered by 
Nationwide Building Society to Mrs H is a fair way to settle her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman