DRN-2662665
The complaint
Mr N, director of M, brings this complaint. Mr N is unhappy that an individual made 
unauthorised transactions from Ms account. 
Mr N thinks Lloyds Bank PLC should have set up payment controls earlier than they did 
which have prevented the loss to M. 
What happened
M held a Lloyds business account with Mr N set up as the sole signatory. Around April 2019, 
Mr N gave another director, Ms debit card and PIN to make business related transactions. In 
August 2019, the other director (who Ill refer to as Ms D) was added to the account and 
therefore was able to make payments in their own right, including access to online banking. 
In February 2020, Mr N became aware that Ms D was using the account for her personal 
benefit and stealing money. Mr N said this first started with Ms D using the debit card to 
make cash withdrawals and pay for personal expenses. And later, she used her online 
banking access to make personal transfers. Mr N confronted Ms D and she made promises 
to pay the money back  but never did. Ms D also set up an overdraft on the account, which 
Lloyds approved in error.
Mr N said hed repeatedly asked Lloyds to set up payment controls on the account  but they 
told him it wasnt available. However, in February 2020 they offered it to M. Mr N thinks if the 
payment controls were added earlier, it would have prevented M losing money. When Lloyds 
became aware of the dispute, they placed a block on the account. This stopped any 
additional money being withdrawn, but also didnt allow any credits to be paid into Ms 
account. Mr N said this left M in a difficult position as it couldnt receive payments it was 
expecting.
Lloyds upheld Ms complaint in part. They said they were entitled to block the account due to 
the ongoing dispute, but they recognised theyd made an error in authorising the overdraft. 
So, they offered M £250 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr N, on behalf of M, brought the 
complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms complaint. In summary;
The investigator felt the disputed payments made by Ms D were authorised as she 
had access to the debit card and PIN. And once shed been set up on the account, 
she had her own authority to make payments and transfers.
He listened to calls between Lloyds and Mr N and found that Lloyds had offered to 
set up payment controls on two occasions in September 2019, but Mr N refused 
these.
He thought Mr N could have mitigated the losses to M as he received a daily limit text 
message so should have been aware of the unauthorised transactions leaving Ms 
account.
While he recognised Lloyds error with the overdraft, the overdraft was never utilised 
and therefore he thought £250 was a fair amount to put things right.
Lloyds were entitled to block the account as there was a clear dispute between the 
directors and this is a reasonable way to ensure the money was protected.
Mr N, on Ms behalf, didnt agree. He didnt think the investigator had listened to all the 
phone calls over all of his accounts held with Lloyds. Mr N said if all the calls had been 
listened to, the investigator would have found that Mr N tried to set up payment controls 
earlier than February 2020.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ive explained my reasons below.
The unauthorised payments
The relevant rules and regulations say that Lloyds can only hold M liable for the payments if 
Mr N authorised them himself or gave permission to a third party to do so on his behalf.
Mr N has told our service that the payments made by Ms D were made by her using the 
debit card to make personal transactions and withdrawing cash from cash machines. I 
recognise Mr N says he didnt give Ms D permission to do this. He says he gave her the card 
and PIN to make business related transactions only.
Theres a concept of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. 
Mr N is aware that the transactions made by Ms D were made using Ms genuine card and 
PIN. Mr N has confirmed he gave Ms D the card and PIN to make business related 
transactions. I dont doubt there may have been individual transactions which Mr N didnt 
individually authorise. But looking at all the transactions overall, I believe Mr N was giving 
Ms D apparent authority to carry out the transactions M has subsequently disputed. Because 
of this, Im satisfied that while Ms D was in possession of the card and PIN, the payments 
were authorised. 
In August 2019, Ms D was added to Ms account. She had access to online banking and 
therefore was able to make payments and transfers in her own right. While I recognise she 
took advantage of this by making personal payments and transfers, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for that. Ultimately, Ms D was authorised to make payments from the account  
and thats what she did. So I cant uphold the complaint on this part.
Mr N has said the transactions Ms D made started around April 2019  but he didnt become 
aware of them until February 2020. Considering Mr Ns involvement in Ms accounts, I think 
he ought to have realised sooner. I say that because Mr N received a daily limit text 
message and I would expect a business owner to recognise more money leaving the 
account than planned. Mr N has also said that when he found out about the unauthorised 
transactions, he spoke to Ms D and she promised shed pay the money back. I dont know 
when this conversation happened, but I think Mr N could have taken steps to remove Ms D 
from Ms account sooner if he had concerns like he said he did. 
The payment controls
Mr N has explained that he tried to get payment controls put on to the account on numerous 
occasions and Lloyds told him it wasnt available. Payment controls would have allowed 
Ms D to set up payments and transfers, but Mr N would have had to authorise them before 
any money left the account. I can see why Mr N thinks this would have prevented the losses 
to M.Ive listened to all the relevant calls between Mr N, on behalf of M, and Lloyds. I appreciate 
Mr N thinks Lloyds are withholding calls from our service, but Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest thats the case. Alongside the calls, Ive reviewed the contact notes and Im satisfied 
nothing is missing. Mr N says he may have had conversations with Lloyds about the 
payment controls using his other accounts he held with them. My decision is limited to the 
circumstances of this complaint, and the actions of Ms account only. And therefore, I can 
only consider the relevant telephone calls to this complaint.
Having listened to the calls, Im aware Lloyds offered payment controls to be added to Ms 
account in September 2019. On one call, when the payment controls were explained to Mr 
N, he asked if he could approve the payments on the mobile banking app. The advisor at 
Lloyds explained hed need to go on to the desktop site but could still access this from his 
mobile phone. Mr N said because he has the banking app, he is able to check the payments 
when he likes.
On another call in September 2019, it was confirmed to Mr N that Ms D could make 
payments and transfers using online banking, but her user profile wouldnt allow her to apply 
for loans, overdrafts or other accounts. Mr N was happy with this.
Payment controls were added to Ms account in February 2020  which coincides with when 
Mr N says he became aware of the unauthorised use of Ms account. Therefore, I think its 
most likely he agreed to add them at this stage because of his concerns with how Ms D was 
using the account. 
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr N asked for payment controls before they were first 
offered by Lloyds in September 2019. And I think Mr N only agreed to having them added to 
Ms account once he had concerns of how the account was being used  in February 2020. 
Therefore, on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely Mr N didnt have any 
concerns prior to February 2020 and therefore wouldnt have asked Lloyds to add on 
payment controls before this date. If he did, I would have expected him to agree to add them 
on in September 2019  but he didnt. 
The overdraft
Theres no dispute that Lloyds approved an overdraft on Ms account in error  Lloyds has 
admitted fault. So, its left for me to decide how Lloyd should put things right. While the 
overdraft was approved, it was never used and therefore Im satisfied there has been no 
financial loss. Lloyds has offered £250 compensation to recognise their error and I think in 
the circumstances of whats happened, this is a fair amount. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to 
pay any additional compensation. 
The block
Lloyds blocked the account when they became aware there was a dispute between the two 
account holders  Mr N and Ms D. I recognise this meant M couldnt receive any credits into 
the account which I appreciate would have been inconvenient. But Lloyds added the block 
due to the dispute between the two account holders, and therefore I consider they did this in 
Ms best interests. Lloyds have a duty to ensure their customers money is protected and so I 
find their actions to block the account reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Overall
Overall, based on the evidence received, Im satisfied the payments made by Ms D using 
Ms debit card and PIN, and online banking were authorised. I also consider that payment 
controls were offered to Mr N before he added them in February 2020 and Im satisfied Lloyds blocking Ms account was reasonable in the circumstances. I agree Lloyds made an 
error in allowing Ms D to apply for an overdraft on Ms account, however I think their offer of 
£250 compensation is fair. So I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman