DRN-4419591
The complaint
Mr V complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him when 
he was the victim of a fraud.
What happened
Mr V has a current account with Halifax and a savings account with Bank of Scotland.
Between February 2022 and June 2022 Mr V made thirty-three payments from his current 
account totalling £682,717 and four payments from his savings account totalling £99,980. He 
thought he was investing in cryptocurrency, but it turned out he was being scammed. After 
making four payments from his savings account, Mr V says the correspondence he was 
having with what he thought was an investment company stopped, that he was unable to 
access a website that he thought showed his investment / trading and that he realised hed 
been scammed. He went to branch and reported the fact that hed been the victim of a scam.
Halifax and Bank of Scotland looked into what had happened and agreed that more should 
have been done when Mr V made the eight payment he made  which was for £21,500  on 
5 May 2022. But they also said that hed been given a clear scam warning on 7 March 2022 
and hed still carried on sending money to the scammers. Halifax and Bank of Scotland 
agreed to refund 50% of the losses Mr V had made from the eighth payment onwards, 
together with 8% simple interest and £200 in compensation given that there was a delay in 
dealing with Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V was unhappy with the decision, saying that Halifax and Bank of Scotland should refund 
the full amount. So, he complained with the help of a representative.
Both Halifax and Bank of Scotland looked into Mr Vs complaint and said that they didnt 
think the 50% refund theyd offered was unfair. So, Mr Vs representative brought two 
complaints to us  one against Halifax and one against Bank of Scotland.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaints and said that they didnt think the 
50% refund offered was unfair. Mr Vs representative disagreed and asked for the 
complaints to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. They thought that Halifax and 
Bank of Scotland shouldnt have allowed Mr V to make any more payments to the 
cryptocurrency site he was sending money and should have invoked the banking protocol. In 
other words, require Mr V to come into branch and call the police. Both of Mr Vs complaints 
were passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case have been set out in detail by the parties and arent in dispute as far 
as I can see. Im not, therefore, going to repeat them here. Everyone accepts that Mr V has 
been the victim of a scam. The main issue I have to decide in this decision is whether or not 
Halifaxs offer to refund 50% of Mr Vs losses from the eighth payment onwards is fair or not. 
Thats because this decision relates to Mr Vs complaint that Halifax should have done more 
to protect him when he made thirty-three payments from his current account totalling 
£682,717. In other words, this decision relates to Mr Vs complaint about Halifax.
In its final response Halifax accepted that it should have done more when Mr V made the 
eighth payment that he made to what turned out to be a scam. That payment was for 
£21,500. Halifax accepted that it should have done more because that payment  given its 
size and nature  was unusual when compared to Mr Vs normal account activity. Halifax 
was right to accept that this was the case. Had it not done so, I would have said that this was 
an unusual payment. The next question I have to ask myself is whether or not this would 
have made a difference. In this case I dont think it would have done so. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Halifax blocked a £10,000 payment Mr V wanted to make and that Halifax 
spoke to Mr V about this payment on 7 March 2022. In other words, at the beginning of the 
scam. Ive listened to that call and its clear that the agent Mr V speaks to has a lot of 
knowledge of cryptocurrency but also that Mr V had concerns that he had paid a small 
amount of money (namely £500) to a scammer. More importantly, the agent identified a 
number of red flags that this was more likely than not a scam and explained them in clear 
terms to Mr V. At one point the agent says the more youre telling me, the more Im saying 
this is a scam. Stay away from them after Mr V said the person he was dealing with had 
essentially told him to lie if the bank questioned him about the payments or what was going 
on. The agent also explained things that scammers would typically do to build a victims 
confidence. I can see that Mr V said to the scammer several times after this that they werent 
going to send any more money as he believed they were scamming him, and that hed need 
evidence to convince him otherwise. And that he continued to send payments.I agree with our investigator, given what happened when Halifax tried to intervene, that 
additional interventions wouldnt have made a difference. In the circumstances, given all the 
red flags including the ones that Halifax had pointed out, I agree that the refund given by 
Halifax was fair and reasonable and that it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do 
more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman