DRN-4211122
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society did not inform him that his mortgage direct 
debit was returned unpaid.
What happened
Mr R says that his mortgage direct debit was returned unpaid as he didnt realise his account 
had less money in it than his monthly repayment. But as he didnt receive an alert from 
Nationwide, he thought the payment was successful. He says he only found out when his 
mortgage provider wrote to him informing him his payment was missed. Mr R made a 
complaint to Nationwide as he said they had a duty of care to inform him when his mortgage 
direct debit hadnt been paid.
Nationwide partially upheld Mr Rs complaint. They said his account is a self-managed 
account and so they would expect him to make sure theres enough available money to 
make his payments, before the due date and to make sure his payments are paid when 
expected. They said as there wasnt enough money to pay the direct debit, it was returned 
unpaid which was noted on his statement. Nationwide said they can see he checked his 
account on the day before and after the direct debit was due, so they wouldve expected him 
to have made provisions for making this payment. 
Nationwide said they have a text alert service to help their members manage their account, 
but unfortunately Mr R was not registered for this service automatically, so theyve taken 
steps to arrange this, so he would receive text alerts in the future. As Mr R wasnt 
automatically registered for this service, they offered him £25 compensation. but he wanted 
them to pay half of the mortgage payment cost, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the £25 offer was fair. She said the full responsibility is on the 
consumer to ensure enough funds are in their account to cover agreed contractual 
payments. She didnt think it was fair to hold Nationwide partly responsible for this as the 
payment wasnt made due to a bank error, it wasnt made because there werent enough 
funds in the account. She said Nationwide advised that they could see Mr R checked his 
account the day before the payment was due and the day after it had failed, so he had the 
opportunity to notice there wasnt enough funds and the payment hadnt been made. Mr R 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im persuaded that Nationwide let Mr R down by not automatically enrolling him, as their 
normal process, for automatic text alerts. It may be possible that if Mr R was enrolled for the 
text alert, then he may have been able to borrow the shortfall of the funds in order to make 
the payment when this was attempted later this day. So Nationwide have deprived him of the 
opportunity to at least try and borrow the required funds by the cut off time for the direct debit 
to be tried again.
But Nationwide have also provided us with an audit of Mr Rs application (app) activity in the 
days around the direct debit payment. This shows Mr R did check his statement the day prior 
to the direct debit was due to debit his account. So he realistically ought to have been aware 
that he didnt have enough money to pay the direct debit. Mr R has said because he didnt 
receive an alert he thought the direct debit would have been paid. But Nationwide had 
provided evidence that Mr R logged into his app and viewed his statement the day after the 
direct debit was due, so he ought to have reasonably known at this point that the direct debit 
had been returned. So he could have contacted his mortgage provider to make an alternate 
payment arrangement at this point.
I know Mr R wants Nationwide to pay half of his mortgage payment. But it is not 
proportionate for me to ask Nationwide to pay any of his mortgage payment. I say this 
because Mr R would have needed to have paid £550.89, regardless of if it was paid on the 
day it should have been or later. So he would always have needed to pay this amount 
without Nationwide contributing towards this. If Mr R thought the payment had been made 
and he spent money which was actually allocated to his mortgage payment, then I cant fairly 
hold Nationwide responsible for this. 
So while I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr R found himself in, I cant 
reasonably say Nationwide should pay any of his mortgage payment as he was always liable 
for the £550.89 payment himself. But I do think they should pay him the £25 they offered him 
for not automatically registering him for the text alerts service, as Im persuaded that this is a 
fair offer for not automatically enrolling him into this. So it follows Nationwide should pay him 
this if they havent already.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr R £25 (but only if they 
havent already paid him this). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman