DRN-3135954
The complaint
Mr A complains about the transfer of the defined benefits (DB) he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Bob Little & Co Ltd (BL, the respondent business in this complaint) and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm E). He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him 
which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss. 
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as those 
of Mr A.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr A s employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new DB 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement. 
Mr A was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted BL for 
advice. Mr A met with BL in July 2016, during which it completed a fact- find, gathering 
information about his circumstances and objectives. 
The fact-find noted that Mr A had three pensions, the one with BSPS and two other small 
personal pensions. It also noted that (because BL didnt hold the relevant permission from 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the 
BSPS) Mr A would be referred to an adviser at Firm E which would provide Mr A with advice. 
BL had an established business arrangement with Firm E, whereby Firm E would provide the 
pension transfer advice before referring the client back to BL for ongoing investment advice, 
and this arrangement was followed for Mr A. BL followed up its meeting with Mr A by 
sending him an email confirming the discussion that had taken place. The email confirmed 
that Mr A had been referred to Firm E for it to generate a Transfer Value Analysis System 
(TVAS) report and for advice. 
Firm E provided advice to Mr A about transferring his pension advising him to transfer it to a 
new personal pension and was invested with P. Firm E charged Mr A 4.5% of his transfer 
value for the advice. As the introducer, and as per the agreement it had with Firm E, BL 
received 35% of Firm Es fee. Mr A was then referred back to BL for ongoing advice and the 
servicing of his pension.
Whilst Firm E provided advice on Mr A s BSPS pension, BL provided went on to provide 
subsequent ongoing retirement planning and mortgage advice to Mr A.
In July 2020 Mr A complained to BL about the advice hed been given. He said BL had 
advised him to transfer out of the BSPS during the meeting he had with it in July 2016. He 
said the advice he was given to transfer his pension wasnt suitable and that hed suffered a 
financial loss. Mr A also said BL should be held jointly liable with Firm E for the advice it 
gave him and the losses hed suffered. By this time, Firm E had gone into liquidation. 
BL looked into Mr As complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It told Mr A it 
hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his BSPS pension and that this was done by 
Firm E. It also said it wasnt jointly liable with Firm E for the advice it had given Mr A nor had 
Mr A provided any evidence in support of this particular allegation. BL said that its role was 
one of introducer and that introducers arent responsible for the advice given by a third-party 
adviser.
Mr A disagreed with what BL said so he made a complaint to this service. BL told us that we 
couldnt look into Mr A s concerns as the activity he was complaining about did not fall within 
our jurisdiction. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint, first considering the issue of our jurisdiction 
and was of the view the matter was one our Service could consider. However, our 
investigator didnt recommend the merits of the complaint should be upheld because he 
wasnt persuaded that BL had provided Mr A with any unsuitable advice or caused him any 
losses. Our investigator said he was satisfied the transfer had taken place because of 
Firm Es advice. 
BL disagreed with our investigators view on this services jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint but accepted his findings in respect of the complaints merits. Mr A didnt provide a 
substantive response to our investigators view.
The complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator; Ill explain why. 
Before I begin, Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment 
made by either Mr A or BL. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all parties 
that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our service. 
But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Is this a complaint this service can consider?
The rules about complaining to this Service set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. These are known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and can be found in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 says that we can only consider complaints relating to certain specified activities, 
including regulated activities and ancillary activities.
Ancillary activity is defined in the FCA Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
It isnt in dispute that BL carried out the initial fact-finding with Mr A, introduced Mr A to 
Firm E, and then provided advice after the transfer was completed. But fact-finding is not a 
regulated activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity where the introduction is made 
to an authorised firm with a view to advice being given. This type of introduction is 
specifically excluded by Article 33 of the Regulated Activities Order. However, any ongoing 
advice provided after the transfer is a regulated activity, although I understand no fault in that 
advice is alleged, nor any loss attributed to such a fault; this complaint is entirely about the 
events prior to the transfer advice and about the transfer advice itself.
The Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the ancillary link may exist both 
forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary activities in connection with 
regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as regulated activities it is in the 
process of carrying on or has already carried on. 
BLs letter of 5 May 2021 states that, from a legal perspective, there was no connection 
between the initial advice provided by Firm E and the ongoing advice (which amounted to 
reviews of Mr As pension investments and mortgage advice) by BL. As regards DISP and 
ancillary activities, I would agree that this link couldnt exist. DISP 2.3.1 states: The 
Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an 
act or omission by a firm in carrying on [regulated activities] or any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them (my emphasis). The 
ancillary link must be between regulated activities and ancillary activities, both being carried 
on by BL. The complaint cant be brought within jurisdiction on the basis that BLs activities 
were ancillary to Firm Es regulated activities. If I were to accept that none of BLs activities 
prior to the transfer were regulated activities it would follow that, in order for the complaint 
about those activities to be within this services jurisdiction, they would need to have been 
ancillary to the ongoing advice provided.
I have considered whether the ancillary link between the introduction and BLs later ongoing 
advice on the personal pension plan with P can bridge Firm Es advice in this way. My view 
is that the ancillary nature of the activity, i.e. the degree to which it was supportive of, or 
gave rise to, the future ongoing advice didnt depend on that future advice being a certain or 
even likely outcome. It seems to me that in any case where Firm E did advise a member to 
transfer and servicing was then transferred to BL, there would be a clear connection 
between introduction, transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain 
would therefore be ancillary to the third. While I note the point that not all introduced clients 
came back to BL for ongoing advice, the nature of the introducer agreement was such that 
servicing would normally be transferred back to BL; that was the arrangement in this 
particular case and thats what subsequently happened. It seems likely that both parties 
envisaged the introduction would lead to BL providing ongoing advice on these benefits 
later. So, it follows that I think BLs prior activities were ancillary to its later provision of 
ongoing advice.
In BLs letter of 5 May 2021 it stated that the complaint was about the advice to transfer and 
that this advice was provided by Firm E. It then stated that the introduction it made was not a 
regulated activity and therefore, No step taken by BL in relation to the introduction can 
therefore be an ancillary activity connected to a regulated activity because there is no 
regulated activity to which it can connect.
According to Mr A, BL did advise Mr A on a pension transfer (without regulatory permission) 
before introducing him to Firm E. Advising on a pension transfer has been a regulated 
activity since 2015, and in that sense the complaint (whether justified or not) relates to BL carrying on a regulated activity. But regardless of whether BL advised on, or did actually 
arrange, the pension transfer, I believe that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction. 
Thats because DISP 2.3.1 permits us to consider a complaint about acts or omissions that 
are an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity. I dont agree with 
BLs position that there is no regulated activity to which the introduction can connect in this 
way. As Ive said, I believe there is an ancillary link between BLs prior activities and the later 
ongoing advice, and on that basis I believe we can consider the complaint about those prior 
activities. It doesnt matter that Mr A hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that 
matters is that there is a regulated activity to which the activities he has complained about 
are ancillary. It isnt actually particularly unusual for us to deal with complaints about acts or 
omissions in the carrying on of an ancillary activity where the consumer is not complaining 
about the regulated activity at all. So, I think BLs prior activities were ancillary to its later 
provision of ongoing advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not BL 
can be said to have gone beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the 
pension. DISP 2.3.1 states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that 
are ancillary activities carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that 
there is a regulated activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think 
there is an ancillary link between BLs prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on 
that basis I believe we can consider the complaint about those prior activities. To my mind, it 
doesnt matter that Mr A hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that matters is that 
there is a regulated activity to which the activities he has complained about are ancillary.
The complaint
My understanding of Mr As position is that BL should be held liable because it went beyond 
its role of introducer. Mr A says it advised him to transfer his pension and he relied upon that 
advice. Mr A also argues there was a joint venture between BL and Firm E in that they 
worked collaboratively to arrange the transfer and, in turn, caused him to suffer a financial 
loss. 
Did BL advise Mr A to transfer?
BL did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational 
pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm E, where Firm E 
would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client would be 
referred back to BL for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead. 
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that BL advised Mr A to 
transfer his BSPS benefits  Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Mr A met with BLs adviser in 2016 and that he wanted to discuss his BSPS 
pension. Ive looked at the paperwork completed at that time and I can see a fact find was 
done in Mr As initial meeting with BL which carried BLs branding. This stated that BL was 
referring Mr A to Firm E. And Ive seen an email, sent two days after the fact-find meeting, 
between Mr A and BL (referred to above) that says the same. 
Mr A says the that BL strayed into providing advice. But even if there was a discussion about 
the advantages and disadvantages of a course of action in general terms, I dont think that it 
can be considered to be advice. I say this because the fact-find gives no indication that BL 
would be using this information to provide Mr A with advice directly, but instead identifies 
that Mr A should be referred to Firm E to provide the advice. Whilst there is reference in the 
subsequent email to obtaining a TVAS from Firm E (and thus, by association, reference to 
the transfer) the evidence it was Firm E that would be providing the advice and the report: 
referred to [Firm E] for the generation of Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report and advice. This has been actioned.. So, I havent seen anything that amounts to BL providing 
advice that Mr A should transfer. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr A may not have differentiated between BLs actions and those of 
Firm E, I think BL was clear with him that it was Firm E was providing the advice. And the 
email to which I refer above does, in my view, indicate that Mr A knew that he was being 
advised on the transfer by Firm E.
I accept that BLs adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr A and discussed his objectives. 
But apart from the initial fact-finding document, the remaining work required to put Mr A in a 
position to transfer was completed by Firm E. I understand Firm E met with Mr A, completed 
a risk assessment, and gave a formal recommendation to Mr A in writing. So, I think there 
was a distinction in the two firms roles here, even if this wasnt fully appreciated by Mr A at 
that time. 
I accept that its possible BL was hoping that Firm E would advise Mr A to transfer out of the 
BSPS so BL could receive the initial introducer fees and become the ongoing adviser and 
receive fees for this as well. And its also possible that Mr A believed BL was advocating for 
the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence which would allow me to 
reasonably conclude that BL gave Mr A a personal recommendation, either verbally or in 
writing. In my view, the evidence indicates that it was Firm E that advised Mr A to transfer 
out of the BSPS, not BL.
I have no way of verifying precisely what was said in the initial meeting, so I accept it is 
possible that BL strayed into giving Mr A verbal advice to transfer his BSPS benefits. 
That being said, I dont think Mr A couldve transferred his benefits based on any such 
interactions alone. The transfer value quotation which would have been provided by the 
trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr A would be required to provide evidence that he had 
taken appropriate financial advice if he wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible 
benefits scheme. This requirement would have been repeated in the transfer value 
discharge form, which further stated that Mr A would need to provide a signed confirmation 
from his adviser that such advice had been given. And Firm E issued a suitability report 
addressed to Mr A recommending that he transfer out of BSPS. BL did not produce such a 
document as it did not give Mr A any formal advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr A 
couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meeting he had with BL or any verbal 
advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees 
requirements. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied from the available evidence that it was Firm E that gave the advice 
that meant Mr A could transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont think BLs earlier involvement 
should automatically make BL liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided 
by Firm E. It is my view that Firm E remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr A to 
transfer. 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr A would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm E had advised him not to transfer. On 
balance I dont think Mr A wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm E. So, if Firm E 
had provided Mr A with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for him, I dont think Mr A wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his 
earlier discussion with BL. 
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Es advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr A to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm E is responsible for 
Mr As losses flowing from the transfer. 
Joint liability 
Mr A says BL and Firm E collaborated to arrange an unsuitable transfer of Mr As BSPS 
pension and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss hes suffered. For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
BL liable for the advice given to Mr A to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr As 
representative states that Mr A was advised to transfer by BL and that the two firms were 
working together, Im satisfied Mr A transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm E advised 
him to do so, independently of BLs involvement. So, I think Mr As losses flow from Firm Es 
advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with BL. 
Summary
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was BLs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr As decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm E. Because of this, 
I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require BL to 
pay compensation to Mr A or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman