DRN-2788222
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about AXA Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under her car 
insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
The events below are a summary of the key points I find relevant to this complaint.
In September 2020, Ms P was involved in a traffic incident when she pulled out from 
a side road and collided with a vehicle on the main road. She notified AXA about the 
claim.
AXA told Ms P that due to the circumstances of the incident, it would likely be 
recorded as a fault claim without further evidence. Ms P told AXA she would look to 
obtain CCTV footage of the incident.
Shortly after, AXA wrote to Ms P and said it would be accepting liability for the 
incident and proceeded to settle the claim with the third party. Ms P was unhappy as 
she said AXA had made this decision before shed sent in evidence, including the 
CCTV footage.
AXA reviewed the evidence Ms P provided but maintained its decision to accept 
liability. It said that because Ms P pulled out from the side road and it couldnt be 
shown that the third party was speeding, there was a clear fault claim.
Ms P complained to AXA, but it didnt respond in time, so she then referred the 
complaint to our service. She said she wanted the claim to be reviewed properly, and 
compensation for her claims experience.
Our investigator looked at everything and concluded the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. They concluded AXA had acted fairly in deciding to settle the claim.
Ms P doesnt agree. She said AXA had agreed to tell her of the liability decision 
before it proceeded, which it didnt. And she maintained that AXA hadnt assessed 
the claim fairly by making its decision before her evidence was considered. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be able to uphold Ms Ps complaint, I need to decide if AXA acted unreasonably 
based on the information from the claim that was available to it. I wont be deciding 
on matters of liability as that would be an action more suited to the courts. But I will 
consider if AXAs decision to settle the claim in the way it did was fair and 
reasonable.
I understand the point Ms P is making here. And I can imagine her frustration at 
providing evidence to support her claim and then finding out a liability decision had 
already been made. But having reviewed everything, Im not persuaded that the 
evidence provided would have changed AXAs decision to accept fault and settle the 
claim. Ill explain why below.
Ms Ps policy terms state that as the insurer AXA will be entitled to: Control 
proceedings to defend or settle any claim. I think this term is a standard one for car 
insurance policies and not unusual. And Im persuaded that this shows AXA has the 
right under the policy to settle the claim how it chooses. Unfortunately for Ms P, AXA 
doesnt need her agreement or consent to do this. But the decision AXA makes 
needs to be reasonable and take into account all the available evidence.
Ive looked at the claim notes provided and can see that AXA has accepted fault 
based on Ms Ps actions of pulling out from a side road. It thought liability was clear 
and that a court would most likely find in favour of the third party so proceeded to 
settle the claim on this basis. And the notes show that AXA settled the claim promptly 
in order to get the best possible terms for things such as the third party hire car costs. 
I dont find AXAs position unreasonable here.
Ive next considered the evidence Ms P provided and whether AXA shouldve done 
anything differently. I can see AXA reviewed the information alongside Ms Ps 
allegation that the third-party driver was speeding. But AXA deemed that the 
evidence wasnt sufficient to show the speed of the third party. And AXA has 
confirmed that it is unable to hold the third party at fault without specific evidence 
they were going above the speed limit. As such this evidence was considered and 
AXA concluded it was unable to overcome the initial fault principle of turning out of a 
side road.
So, whilst I appreciate Ms Ps concerns that AXA made a decision before it 
considered her evidence, Ive not seen anything to show that this wouldve led to a 
different outcome on her claim. And whilst it would have been a better service if AXA 
had communicated its decision prior to settling the claim, it wasnt required to do so 
under the terms of the policy. So I wont be requiring AXA to do anything further.
Whilst I have some sympathy for Ms Ps situation here, I find that AXA has acted 
reasonably based on the information it had at the time, so for these reasons, I dont 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman