DRN-3346802
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.  
What happened
In November 2016, Mr C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage Finance. Mr C made a £100 advance payment and was required to make 59 
payments of £312 followed by a final payment of £487. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £19,010.
Mr C says that Advantage Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage Finance didnt agree. 
It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included gathering information about 
Mr Cs employment and income and undertaking a credit check. It said its checks were 
reasonable and at the point of application there was nothing that would have prompted it to 
check if Mr C was gambling. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said his bank statements from the time showed his use of payday 
loans and that he was borrowing from family members. He said his gambling could also be 
seen and that the broker had confirmed that they were aware of this. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage Finance gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr C about his income. I say this because it asked about his 
employment and verified his income through a payslip. 
However, Advantage Finance didnt ask Mr C about his expenditure. Although it did 
complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Cs regular living expenses were. 
Given the size and term of the loan I think this would have been a proportionate check as 
without knowing what Mr Cs regular committed expenditure was Advantage Finance 
wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or 
not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mr C would have told Advantage Finance had it asked about his 
regular expenditure. I dont think Advantage Finance needed to request bank statements, 
but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information 
contained in Mr Cs statements as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr Cs regular committed monthly expenditure varies over the months but on average was 
around £1,600. In calculating this figure, Ive included items such as food, fuel and credit 
commitments. Having looked at Mr Cs income, I think the figure of around £3,600 used by 
Advantage Finance wasnt unreasonable. Taking these figures into account, it appears to 
show the agreement was affordable to Mr C. 
I note Mr Cs comments about his use of payday loans. While I can see that Mr C was 
receiving and repaying payday loans in the months leading up to the agreement, Advantage 
Finance carried out a credit check which didnt record any active payday loans. Had 
Advantage Finance asked Mr C further questions about his expenditure it is possible he may 
have mentioned the loans but having payday loans doesnt necessarily mean the finance 
shouldnt have been provided. In this case, taking into account the repayments for the loans 
still suggested the agreement was affordable and so I do not find I have enough to say that it 
shouldnt have been provided.
Mr C has also explained he was gambling at the time. I am sorry to hear about Mr Cs 
addiction and thank him for his honesty regarding this sensitive issue. I can see from his 
bank statements the extent of his gambling but in this case as I dont think the checks 
carried out by Advantage Finance raised concerns that meant his expenses required 
verification, I do not think that Advantage Finance was required to request copies of M Cs 
banks statements. Therefore, I accept that Advantage Finance was unaware of Mr Cs 
gambling at the time of his application and I do not find that the additional checks I have 
suggested would have necessarily identified this. I appreciate that Mr C has said he told the 
broker about his gambling, but I have nothing to confirm this or that this information was 
given to Advantage Finance. Therefore, on balance I do not find I have enough to be 
persuaded that Advantage Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman