DRN-3087816
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) treated 
him unfairly when it received a Deduction from Earnings Order (DEO) from Child 
Maintenance Services (CMS). He says that HLAM shouldnt have accepted that order and 
applied it to his pension income. And he says that incorrect information provided by HLAM 
resulted in him losing his right to appeal the notice.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received 
a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said; 
Mr M holds pension savings with HLAM in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
I can see that he has previously taken regular monthly income payments from his 
SIPP. In December 2019 CMS issued a DEO to HLAM in relation to Mr Ms pension 
income. That notice was issued in respect of historic child maintenance arrears and 
required HLAM to make specified deductions from any income it paid to Mr M. CMS 
also issued a copy of the notice to Mr M at the same time. The notice advised Mr M 
that he could appeal its implementation by application to his local Magistrates Court 
within 28 days.
On 13 January 2020 HLAM sent an email to Mr M following a secure message hed 
sent to the firm. The DEO inaccurately described Mr M as an employee of HLAM. In 
its email HLAM advised Mr M that its understanding was that a third party couldnt 
force a deduction to be made from Mr Ms pension income. It advised Mr M to 
discuss the matter further with CMS and ensure that it correctly understood he wasnt 
employed by HLAM.
Nine days later, on 22 January, HLAM sent a further message to Mr M. That 
message advised him that, after further research, it had concluded that it was in fact 
required to implement the DEO against Mr Ms pension income. It advised him that, 
to avoid any deductions being made whilst he discussed the matter with CMS, he 
would need to cancel his forthcoming income payment immediately. Mr M did cancel 
his income payment and I understand he has taken no further income from his 
pension whilst this complaint is being assessed.
At Mr Ms request HLAM wrote to CMS in early February to confirm he was a 
recipient of pension income rather than an employee. HLAM has said it didnt receive 
a response to that letter. And over the following weeks HLAM provided Mr M with 
some illustrations of how it thought the DEO might affect any pension income he took 
in the future if it remained in force.
In May 2020 Mr M complained to HLAM about the service hed received, and that the 
correct treatment of the DEO had not yet been resolved. HLAM still considered that it 
had correctly reflected its responsibilities on receipt of the DEO. But it accepted that it 
had initially provided some incorrect information to Mr M, and that it hadnt dealt with 
his more recent queries in a timely manner. So it offered Mr M £400 in respect of the 
trouble and upset hed been caused. It isnt clear to me whether or not that 
compensation was accepted by Mr M, or whether HLAM has paid it to him.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
HLAM had correctly interpreted its responsibilities under the DEO. But he agreed 
with HLAM that it hadnt handled its correspondence with Mr M about the matter as 
well as it might have. He thought that the compensation HLAM had already offered to 
Mr M was fair. So he didnt think HLAM needed to do anything further.
Whilst Mr M and our investigator were discussing that assessment it came to light 
that CMS had written to HLAM in May 2020 cancelling the DEO that had been in 
place. HLAM says that a copy of the letter was scanned into its systems in June 2020 
 after it had dealt with Mr Ms original complaint. It has explained why, in normal 
circumstances, it wouldnt inform a consumer of the cancellation of a DEO. But it 
accepts, given the specific circumstances here, that it should have made contact with 
Mr M when the cancellation notice was received. So it has told us it is willing to pay 
£400 to Mr M for any trouble and upset this has caused.
As I have explained above, it isnt clear whether or not HLAM has paid the £400 in 
compensation it offered to Mr M. And for that reason I am not entirely certain whether 
the £400 compensation it has recently offered in relation to the cancellation notice 
not being advised to Mr M is in replacement of, or additional to, that earlier offer. But, 
although I am happy for HLAM to correct any misunderstanding about those offers, 
I have looked at Mr Ms complaint afresh. And as I will now explain I think total 
compensation of £800 would be a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint.
The DEO notices that are issued by CMS are supported by legislation (The Child 
Support (Collection and Enforcement) Regulations 1992). So there is little latitude for 
HLAM in how those notices are applied. At this stage I will acknowledge that Mr M 
has said a similar notice was sent to another pension provider, and that providers 
actions resulted in the notice being cancelled. But I dont think that means that 
HLAMs actions were incorrect  it is for each provider to make its own assessment 
of the relevant legislation.
The relevant legislation provides for DEOs to be applied to occupational and 
personal pension income, as well income received from employment. I understand 
that CMS has recently written to Mr M to explain why it originally referred to him as 
an employee of HLAM. It isnt for me, in this decision, to comment on whether that 
approach is reasonable. But I can understand why the original DEO caused Mr M 
some confusion and concern about whether the order was being applied against 
relevant income.
At Mr Ms request HLAM did write to CMS to confirm that he wasnt an employee, but 
instead a recipient of pension income. And I can see that more recently HLAM has 
checked with CMS why it didnt receive a response to that letter. CMS has explained 
that it wouldnt routinely respond to correspondence of that nature unless a change 
was needed to a DEO. Here CMS says that whether Mr M was an employee of 
HLAM, or just in receipt of pension income, made no difference to the DEO.
So taking all of the above into consideration I dont think HLAM was wrong to tell Mr 
M that it would be applying the DEO to his forthcoming income payment. Mr M 
prevented those deductions, by acting on the information provided by HLAM and 
cancelling his income instruction.In the weeks following that cancellation Mr M explored with HLAM how he might be 
able to take future income payments whilst a DEO was in force, to minimise any 
deductions. To provide that information HLAM undertook some manual calculations. 
I can see that some of those calculations contained errors, that were pointed out by 
Mr M. But I cant see that has caused him to lose out. Should Mr M have proceeded 
with taking income in another form, such as an annual payment, that payment would 
have been processed by an automated system and so any deductions would have 
been correct. So whilst the errors in the manual calculations were regrettable, I think 
their cause is understandable, and they didnt cause any financial loss to Mr M.
I now turn to the information provided to Mr M at the very start of the process. It is 
clear that he was given some incorrect information by HLAM on 13 January when he 
was told that a third party couldnt require deductions to be made from his pension 
income. But I think that mistake was mitigated by two things. It was corrected 
relatively quickly  by another email nine days later. And the original email advised 
Mr M to get in touch with CMS to discuss the DEO further  it doesnt seem that was 
something he did at that time.
I appreciate that time was of the essence at the point at which the DEO was issued. 
Mr M only had 28 days to challenge the order through the Courts. But I dont agree 
that HLAMs actions meant that Mr M was prevented from making that challenge  or 
that he should reasonably have thought one was unnecessary. I think the fact that a 
DEO had been issued should have been sufficient reason for him to challenge it if he 
thought it unfair, regardless of whether HLAM thought it could be enforced.
But saying that doesnt negate the fact that Mr M was provided with incorrect 
information. And I would agree with HLAM that over the following weeks it failed to 
reasonably manage its communications with Mr M. Whilst that might not have caused 
any direct losses, it undoubtedly caused Mr M some trouble and upset. So I think the 
offer that HLAM has made, of £400 in compensation, is reasonable.
As I said earlier, Mr M ceased taking income from his HLAM SIPP when the DEO 
notice was served. By doing so he ensured that no deductions were made from his 
pension savings. But that did mean he needed to find an alternative source of income 
for that time. Whilst I dont underestimate the disruption that would have caused to 
Mr M, the root cause  the application of the DEO - was outside of HLAMs control.
I can see that in many of its communications with Mr M, HLAM was careful to note 
that it couldnt be sure whether or not the DEO would be applicable to future income 
payments. HLAM has confirmed that a DEO is issued on a monthly basis, and so 
might change in the future. It says that its communications with Mr M were on the 
basis of whether a DEO could be applied to his pension income if one was received 
from CMS.
But I dont think my treating the DEO as a one-off instruction is a fair reflection of how 
it was presented to Mr M. I think it was apparent to Mr M that a DEO would most 
likely be applied against any future pension income he received  that was the 
reason he ceased taking any further income from his SIPP. So I think, until either 
HLAM or CMS told him otherwise, Mr M would reasonably expect deductions to be 
taken from his pension income.
HLAM was notified by CMS in May 2020 that the DEO had been cancelled. 
I appreciate that due to the problems being faced at that time due to the restrictions 
imposed by the Coronavirus pandemic that letter wasnt scanned onto HLAMs 
systems until the following month  I think that delay is understandable. And I accept that, in many cases, it would be unnecessary for a client to be told about the 
cancellation of a DEO  that cancellation would be obvious when the next income 
payment was received without any deductions.
But I dont think Mr Ms situation was anything close to normal. He had been in 
discussions with HLAM for a number of months about whether it was fair to apply a 
DEO to his pension income. And HLAM had assisted Mr M by providing some 
illustrations about how he might restart his pension income to mitigate any 
deductions imposed by the DEO. So I think it should have been clear to HLAM that 
Mr M would have wanted to be made aware that the DEO had been cancelled.
It seems that HLAM accepts that providing that information to Mr M would have been 
helpful. By not doing so it has, at the very least, delayed the receipt by Mr M of 
income from his SIPP. And given the passing of a tax year and the accompanying 
allowances, it might not be possible for Mr M to receive the income hed have 
normally taken without greater tax deductions. So I think not telling Mr M about the 
cancellation of the DEO, in the specific circumstances here, will have caused him 
further trouble and upset. I think the offer that HLAM has made, of £400 in 
compensation, is reasonable provided it is paid in addition to that offered for the 
earlier communication problems.
I appreciate that some aspects of my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. But 
much of the impact of the DEO was outside the control of HLAM. I think it was 
reasonable for HLAM to conclude that the DEO should be applied to pension income. 
So I dont think HLAM has done anything wrong in that regard. But I do think HLAMs 
communication with Mr M, both in terms of dealing with his initial enquiries, and then 
failing to tell him about the DEO cancellation, will have caused him trouble and upset. 
So I currently think it would be reasonable for HLAM to make a total payment of £800 
to reflect that. If any of that compensation has already been paid to Mr M, then only 
the balance would now be payable.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. HLAM has said that it accepts my provisional decision and confirmed 
that its offer to Mr M totalled £800. Mr M has provided us with some extensive comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr M has said I want to reassure him that I have 
read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr M has said that he was originally told by HLAM that it wouldnt be making any deductions 
under the DEO. He says that by the time that decision had been changed he had passed the 
point at which he could appeal the notice. So he decided to cancel his income withdrawals to 
ensure that he didnt unnecessarily deplete his retirement funds.
Mr M has expressed his disappointment that, in his discussions with HLAM over the 
complaint, it didnt provide him with copies of all the correspondence with CMS that it held. 
He says he intends to raise that matter with the Information Commissioners Office. He is 
most disappointed that HLAM failed to share the letter from CMS that he says would have 
nipped this matter in the bud. He says this has caused him significant stress and feels that 
he has been lied to by HLAM.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought again about this complaint I think that the findings I set out in my provisional decision remain appropriate. But I think it would be helpful to provide a little more 
commentary on the matters that Mr M has raised in his response.
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think HLAMs actions had prevented Mr M 
from being able to challenge the DEO through the Courts. I accept that HLAMs initial 
assessment of the situation might have led Mr M to think that course of action was 
unnecessary. But the right of challenge remained open to him  and HLAMs guidance at the 
time suggested that Mr M might want to have further discussions with CMS before deciding 
how to proceed.
But ultimately, that DEO was cancelled. And the cancellation took place before any monies 
had been paid by Mr M in relation to the order. So whilst I accept that only happened 
because Mr M ceased his income payments for a period of time, I cannot see that a failure to 
challenge the order has resulted in him losing out financially. The income he would have 
taken over those months remains available in his pension savings. And any new DEO that 
might be imposed would, as far as I understand things, offer Mr M a new right of challenge.
There is no doubt that HLAM has failed to communicate effectively with Mr M, both during 
their initial discussions about the DEO, and later in its management of Mr Ms complaint. 
I have no doubts that this will have caused Mr M a significant amount of trouble and upset. 
And so it is right that the payment I am asking HLAM to make is towards the higher end of 
our normal awards for matters such as these. I appreciate HLAMs decision to accept my 
provisional findings in this regard.
I hope that Mr M is now able to move on from these difficult discussions and that he sees the 
award I am making as reflective of the trouble and upset he has faced. I thank him for his 
active engagement with our investigations. 
Putting things right
I think HLAMs communication with Mr M, both in terms of dealing with his initial enquiries, 
and then failing to tell him about the DEO cancellation, will have caused him trouble and 
upset. So I think it would be reasonable for HLAM to make a total payment of £800 to reflect 
that. If any of that compensation has already been paid to Mr M, then only the balance would 
now be payable. The compensation should be paid within 28 days of HLAM being notified of 
Mr Ms acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman