DRN-2539807
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank didnt 
update his address and failed to act on his request to cancel his policy. He says Tesco didnt 
pass on claims he made against the legal expenses cover of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C raised a series of complaints with Tesco in June 2019, which it replied to in July 2019. 
Mr C remained unhappy with Tescos reply so he asked us to look at things for him. 
In summary Mr C says that Tesco failed to update his address in 2014 until 2019. He 
believes he overpaid for his insurance between 2014 and 2019 because he says insurance 
was cheaper at the 2014 address. He said he told Tesco that he didnt want to renew his 
policy in October 2018, but in June 2019 it was still taking the monthly premium. He said he 
made a number of claims under the legal expenses part of his policy between 2014 and 
2020 and they were all either ignored or rejected. He believes the reason for this was due to 
Tesco either failing to pass on the claims to the legal expenses provider, or they were 
rejected based on the incorrect risk address.
Our investigator saw that Tesco accepted that it failed to update Mr Cs address when it 
became aware in 2014. For its error it paid Mr C £250 compensation. The underwriter of Mr 
Cs policy told Tesco that he wasnt financially impacted though, as the net difference in 
premium was minimal. In 2018 Tesco said it provided a refund of £13 as the difference Mr C 
paid for his insurance based on the incorrect address. Tesco said it didnt know Mr C wanted 
to cancel the renewal of his policy until he complained in June 2019. It told Mr C it would 
provide a refund for the time Mr C was dually insured between November 2018 and June 
2019, subject to Mr C providing proof of his insurance cover elsewhere.
Our investigator thought that overall Tesco had acted reasonably. Mr C didnt agree. Ive 
addressed the points hes raised in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco accepts it failed to update Mr Cs address in 2014. It says it doesnt have any 
evidence it was directly advised of the change  it seems that the legal expenses provider 
was  but Tesco accept that it was made aware as it passed information from Mr C to the 
legal expenses provider at the time. And so the outcome remains the same. I think Tesco 
should have noted and updated Mr Cs change of address on their records in 2014. 
Mr C believes hes overpaid his premium by around £1,000. There isnt enough information 
to support his view. But I can understand his concern that  based on his recent checks  he 
may have paid more for his insurance since 2014 due to paying for insurance based on his 
previous address. Recent comparative checks that he carried out online for quotes showed a 
difference in premium of around £30 a year.
Tesco says that due to length of time that has passed its wasnt possible for the underwriter 
to compare exactly like for like the cost it would have charged Mr C for his insurance 
retrospectively. It isnt unusual for an underwriters risk criteria to change  and there are 
many other factors that can affect a price an insurer calculates every year to offer cover. I 
understand how strongly Mr C feels about this issue. But for these reasons, it isnt possible 
to verify the quotes Mr C recently obtained or to directly compare them with what he might 
have paid for his insurance under the correct risk address from 2014.
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right and what the 
effects of the error had on a customer. In this case, having looked at the information 
provided by both parties, there isnt enough to show that on balance Mr C overpaid for his 
cover and by how much from 2014 because Tesco failed to update his address. 
So Ive considered what Tesco did to resolve this complaint. As it accepts it failed to update 
Mr Cs address when it should have, it paid him £250 compensation. Without proof of actual 
financial loss, I think the amount Tesco paid Mr C for its failing is reasonable. 
Mr C says he emailed the correct Tesco business to cancel his renewal in 2018 and he 
received an acknowledgement too. From what hes provided, Mr C emailed Tesco bank as 
well as other businesses not connected with his policy under the umbrella of Tesco - and 
received an automated acknowledgement saying Tesco will aim to reply within 36 hours. But 
I cant tell from the automated reply which Tesco business it came from as its from a 
noreply address @tesco.com. So while I think it was reasonable for Mr C to expect a reply, 
having received an acknowledgement, it isnt clear that the acknowledgement was from 
Tesco Bank. And I can only consider their actions in my decision. 
Ive also looked at the renewal invite Tesco sent to Mr C which was sent by email. As Mr C 
sent his email the following day to cancel his renewal Im satisfied  on balance  that he 
received it. 
The renewal notice says that if Mr C doesnt want to renew his policy, he needs to call 
Tescos renewals team and provided a number. Mr C says he made several calls as well as 
writing and emailing Tesco. 
While Mr C didnt receive a reply to his email to Tesco Bank, which I think he should have, I 
also think Mr C should have called Tesco as this was the process to follow to cancel his 
renewal. And although Mr C says he did do this, I havent got any evidence of this and Tesco 
say it doesnt have a record of his call. The information I have seems to show that Tesco 
was made aware of Mr Cs concerns when he complained in June 2019. Tesco cancelled Mr 
Cs policy on 25 June 2019. However, it said that if Mr C can provide proof he was insured 
elsewhere, it would refund the premium for the period he was dually insured. 
Mr C said his insurance with another provider is a private matter. And he says because the 
insurance with Tesco was for the wrong address, he wasnt actually dually insured. So he 
wants a refund of the premium he paid from 2014. But Tesco confirmed that if Mr C had 
made a valid claim during the time he was paying for insurance  and as it accepted it failed 
to update his address  it would have indemnified such claim. 
I know Mr C strongly believes that because the risk address was wrong under the policy 
between since 2014, his claims under his legal expenses part of the policy were either 
ignored or rejected for this reason. So he holds Tesco responsible for this. Tesco is 
responsible for the administration and arranging of the policy, but not the handling of or decisions made relating to Mr Cs claims. Mr C has brought his complaints about the claims 
he made under his legal expenses cover to this service. So those complaints have been 
dealt with separately and dont form part of my decision about Tesco as the administrator of 
the policy. From what Ive seen, the decisions the legal expenses provider made about the 
claims Mr C made were based on the merits of the claim.
So I think Tescos request to see proof Mr C was insured elsewhere around the renewal date 
of December 2018 in order to consider a refund was a reasonable one. And I dont find its 
request unusual in these circumstances. Its for Mr C to decide if he is happy to provide 
evidence of his alternative insurance to them. This would put him in the position of not 
having paid twice for insurance.
Mr C is unhappy that he has been able to obtain insurance elsewhere in December 2018 for 
a much cheaper price than the price Tesco offered him at renewal. This is a separate new 
complaint and so it isnt one this service can investigate. Mr C will need to raise this with the 
underwriter first to allow it the opportunity to reply. If hes unhappy with their reply, he can 
contact us. 
Mr C told us Tesco hid the fact that he would pay more for his insurance by paying monthly. 
He says it didnt give him the option to pay for his policy as one yearly payment. This is also 
a new complaint which he will need to make to Tesco and allow it the opportunity to reply 
first. If he remains dissatisfied with their response, he can ask us to look at things for him.
Mr C says he made many more calls and sent letters and emails to Tesco which they have 
ignored. I have taken an even handed and impartial approach to the information provided by 
both Mr C and Tesco. And Ive considered all the evidence provided by both parties to 
decide if Tesco has done enough to put things right for its failings. I understand Mr C will be 
very disappointed, but having done so, I think it has. So this means Im not asking Tesco to 
do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman