DRN-2684020
The complaint
Miss T complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited applied unfair end of 
contract charges for damage to the vehicle shed acquired on a finance agreement it 
supplied. She wants the charges to be cancelled.
What happened
Miss T tells us that she returned the vehicle to MBFS in early August 2019 at the end of her 
hire purchase agreement. She says there were slight scratches on the body and wheel trims 
but puts these down to wear and tear. She also complains about charges and fines imposed 
in relation to events occurring after she returned the vehicle.
MBFS said that the inspection appraisal carried out upon the return of the vehicle showed 
that the alloys were outside its Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) due to the number of 
scratches and general condition of the vehicle.
Ive previouly issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. Initially, I said I was minded 
to uphold it. But following further information, I issued a second provisional decision on 3 
March 2021. I said that Id seen photographs and a video which showed more clearly the 
damage for which MBFS was applying the charges. And Id changed my opinion and was 
now minded not to uphold the complaint.
Miss T replied disagreeing with this and said she felt Id ignored the information on the initial 
vehicle appraisal form. I thank Miss T for her reply. But for reasons Ill explain in my final 
decision, Im maintaining the opinion I expressed in my second provisional view. Which was 
that the vehicle was returned with damage beyond wear and tear which was outside the 
relevant return standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would be disappointing to Miss T to be invoiced for unexpected charges 
after the vehicle had been returned.
Its not in dispute that the regulated finance agreement included the provision for charges to 
be applied if the vehicle fell below certain standards  allowing for fair wear and tear - upon 
its return to MBFS. So what Ive to determine is if the information now supplied indicates that 
any damage fell outside those return standards.
When considering fair wear and tear Ive taken account of the industry guidelines and what 
good industry practice required. The relevant guidelines for what is considered fair wear and 
tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). Ive also considered the VRS which formed part of 
the finance agreement.
The damage for which MBFS has invoiced Miss T refers to damage to the alloy wheels. The 
Vehicle Return Standards which MBFS uses formed part of the finance agreement.
The relevant part reads:
Acceptable:
Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face.
Not Acceptable:
 Cracked or distorted wheel trims.
 Scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The vehicle inspection process contains two elements. The intial appraisal upon collection is 
followed (as is stated in the finance agreement) by a further inspection carried out by a 
trained technician at the nominated Defleet Centre. 
The initial appraisal form made reference to numerous scratches and dents. But it didnt 
allocate any costs.
The Defleet Centre inspection is accompanied by photographs and a video. Our inverstigator 
has supplied a link to these items to Miss T.
The video and photographs separately show substantial scuff marks on all four wheels. And 
these are clearly more than 25mm in width. Theres also damage to the spokes on all the 
alloys. Which is outside the BVRLA and VRS standards. 
Given that the scratches and dents to bodywork identified on the initial appraisal form 
havent been the subject of additinal charges, it appears these were not found by the later 
inspection to fall outside the return standards. This suggests that the Defleet Centre 
inspection had due regard to the VRS and BVRLA guidance and only those aspects which 
fell outside of fair wear and tear were subject of a charge.
Given the visual confirmation provided by the video and the photographs, I find it was fair for 
MBFS to apply the charges in respect of damage to the alloys. And that in cost terms they 
were reasonable and within the range Id expect. 
I understand that Miss T has received a fine from DVLA for failing to notify a change of 
keeper once she had returned the vehicle. And also in respect of a road fund licence 
offence.
MBFS has indicated it will deal with Miss Ts complaint regarding a toll charge - apparently 
incurred after she returned the vehicle - as a separate complaint. So she may wish to follow 
up this aspect directly with it.
Regulation 23 of the Road Vehicles (Registration and Licensing) Regulations 2002 requires 
the registered keeper (Miss T) to inform DVLA of any change in registered keeper. It 
appears that Miss T did not do so. I cant hold MBFS liable for any fines which have been 
imposed for not notifying a change of keeper if Miss T didnt make the necessary 
declaration. Or in respect of any fine relating to the road fund licence which appears to have 
arisen out of the same failure.
I accept that Miss T will be disppointed with this outcome. But the photographs and video 
clearly depict the items of damage for which charges were applied.In summary, I find that MBFS applied charges fairly for damage beyond fair wear and tear. 
And that its not responsible for any fines which Miss T incurred relating to the non-
notification of the change of keeper.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman