DRN-2316764
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with 
a store card in 2002. AXA France IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the 
sale. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the business in the rest of this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy added to Mrs Bs account in 2002, when 
she took out the card in a store. Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Bs complaint because, in 
their view, the policy made it more difficult for self-employed people to make a 
successful claim. The adjudicator thought that Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy 
if she had been given clearer information about this. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
AXA said, in summary, Mrs B hadnt provided any evidence to show that she was self-
employed at the time of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. I am going to uphold Mrs B 
complaint, Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the card and PPI application she signed in 2002 to take out the card and PPI. 
At the top of the application form it said: 
Before you begin can you say yes to these statements. One of the statements was 
about employment. There was only a yes box to select, providing the customer could 
say My partner or myself are in permanent paid employment (minimum 16 hours per 
week),self employed or retired, or in receipt of incapacity allowance. This box was left 
blank on Mrs Bs form. There were ticks in the other two yes boxes on the form, which 
covered other eligibility criteria. Mrs B ticked to say that she was over 18 and had lived 
in the UK for at least the last 12 months.
Underneath the yes boxes it said: If you have not answered yes to all questions please 
see a member of staff. So, I think it was important that Mrs B was able to say yes to all 
three statements. And as she didnt, I cant see that in those circumstances, Mrs B was 
more likely eligible to take out the PPI at the time it was sold to her. Given the 
prominence and importance of these three questions, this is something that Mrs B 
shouldve been made aware of before the PPI was taken out. I cant see from the form 
that this was done.
Further, based on what Mrs Bs said, that she was self-employed, even if she was 
eligible to take out the PPI, I think it wouldve been more difficult for her to make a 
successful claim given her employment circumstances.
Had Mrs B been given clearer information about the PPI and been made aware of the 
main limitations and exclusions of the policy, I dont think she wouldve opted to take 
PPI, because I dont think she wouldve considered it worth it to her, in her 
circumstances. So, I think that Mrs B has lost out because of what AXA did wrong and 
so it must put things right.
Putting things right 
AXA should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A) AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any 
charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to 
those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when 
she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs B 
made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. 
B) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% simple a year . 
C) If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% 
simple a year . 
D) AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and order AXA France IARD to put 
things right as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman