DRN-3457048
The complaint
Mr D complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund money he was tricked into 
transferring to fraudsters after he fell victim to two investment scams.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In brief, Mr D opened an account with Wise in February 2019. Between February 2019 and 
January 2020, he sent seven payments totalling $25,550.31 to what he believed was to a 
legitimate investment company - Ill refer to as AG. He met with a representative for AG at 
what he believed to be the company offices whilst he was on a business trip in Hong Kong. 
While there, hes told us he was provided with information about the company and was 
trained on how to use the trading platform. He agreed that the trading analyst would trade on 
his behalf as Mr D didnt have the time to do so himself. After he sent the payments to AG, 
Mr D explains that he realised his trading account was at a loss. He requested compensation 
for this and the return of his investment. Mr D told us that he didnt receive any money back 
but instead was asked to invest more. He stopped receiving a response from AG and the 
trading platform became unavailable. 
In an attempt to try to recover/make back the money hed lost, Mr D explained that he 
decided to invest with a second company based in Hong Kong also - Ill refer to as SY.  Mr D 
proceeded to make two payments totalling around $5,054.60 to SY. However, when Mr D 
later attempted to withdraw his funds in February 2020, SY stopped responding to him and 
this trading platform became unavailable. 
In total, Mr D made nine payments from his Wise account totalling $30,604.91. 
Unfortunately, Mr D had been liaising with fraudsters and had in fact fallen victim to two 
investment scams.
For ease I have outlined each of the payments Mr D made from his Wise account below:
Date Amount Payment sent to
25 February 2019 $20 ($24.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
26 February 2019 $3,000($3,004.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
27 February 2019 $1,000 ($1,004.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
6 March 2019 $1,950 ($1,954.33 including 
transfer fee) AG
6 March 2019 $4,000 ($4,004.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
9 March 2019 $8,000 ($8,004.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
14 April 2019 $7,550 ($7,554.33 including 
transfer fee)AG
8 January 2020 $5,000 ($5,004.60 including 
transfer fee)SY
8 January 2020 $50 (£41.74 GBP) SY
Realising hed been the victim of a scam; Mr D reported AG to the authorities in Hong Kong 
in February 2020. Mr D has told us that to date he has not received a response to this. 
Mr D raised the matter with Wise in February 2021 and then complained in May 2021. Wise 
issued its final response in July 2021. Wise having looked into the matter said it couldnt be 
held responsible for the payments Mr D made as he had authorised them. In regard to the 
recovery of Mr Ds funds, Wise said unfortunately there was no chance of recovery, given 
the time that had passed since the last successful transfer.  
Mr D remained unhappy and so he referred the matter to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In 
summary, he said he didnt think there was anything to indicate Wise ought to have been 
concerned about the payments Mr D made. He added that even had Wise asked questions 
about the payments, he didnt think this wouldve revealed the scam given that hed met 
representatives for the company in person, attended its offices and was able to see the 
trading account online. He added that while Wise might have attempted recovery of the 
funds, given that it had been two years since the payments had been made and they were 
international payments  he didnt think this reasonably wouldve made a difference in this 
case. 
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he said: 
The BSI Code of Practice and the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) 
were applicable to his case.
That the payments he made were to an Asian account which he hadnt used before.
That the frequency of the payments should have flagged to Wise as being unusual 
for the account.
That three payments were stopped by Wise. Mr D doesnt think Wise went far 
enough and so an opportunity was missed to discuss the payments in more detail. 
He maintains had this happened the scam wouldve been prevented. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ds further comments, but they didnt change his 
assessment. He explained that Wise were not signed up to the CRM Code and, therefore, 
this does not apply to the payments he made. He also explained that the BSI Code which 
Mr D had referred to was created without the involvement of Electronic Money Institutes 
(EMIs) or Payment Institutes (PIs), which was applicable to Wise. He reiterated his position 
about the account activity and why he didnt think the scam wouldve been uncovered even 
had more questions been asked about the payments. As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I know this will be disappointing for him, 
so I will explain my reasons why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Theres no dispute that Mr D authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im aware Mr D has referred to the CRM Code which was implemented in May 2019 and the 
BSI Code of Practice. As our Investigator explained, the CRM Code is voluntary, and Wise 
isnt a signatory of the CRM Code. The BSI also isnt applicable here. 
Given what Ive set out above, Wise obligations, when Mr D made the payments, was to 
protect its customers from fraud by being on the lookout for transactions that were unusual 
or out of character and to step in to prevent their consumer from being at risk of financial 
harm. 
Based on what Ive seen and been told, Mr D appears to have opened his Wise account for 
the purpose of sending the money to the fraudulent trading companies. This was opened two 
days prior to him making the first fraudulent payment. So Wise had no genuine account 
activity to compare his payments against. It is also true that many of Wise customers will use their accounts in the way that Mr D did  to send one or more payments in another 
currency to a payee overseas. 
The first payment Mr D made to the new payee was for $20. This was followed by further 
payments of $3,000 and $1,000, all of which I note were stopped by Wise fraud team. When 
Wise reached out to Mr D on 27 February 2019 it asked Mr D for some more information 
before starting the transfers. It requested photographic/ID documentation from Mr D to verify 
himself  to check it was him that was sending the money. It also asked Mr D to explain the 
purpose for the payment. I can see Mr D replied to Wise on 28 February 2019 advising that 
the payments he was making were to an investment company and for the purpose of an 
investment. From the information Ive seen, there is no suggestion that these checks were 
being made by Wise due to a possible risk of financial harm or that there was anything else 
to suggest that Wise were aware and/or that it ought to have been concerned about the 
payments Mr D was making. 
While I recognised Mr D made numerous payments to AG, I have to keep in mind that after 
the first payment he made, the subsequent payments were from that point onwards being 
made to an existing payee  one that Mr D had confirmed to Wise he was making and for 
the purpose of investing. In the absence of any other genuine account activity to compare 
these payments to, Im persuaded Wise would have seen a pattern of activity which would 
be broadly in line with how it would expect its customers to use its services. Im mindful from 
the account statements Mr D has provided to our service that he also made numerous other 
genuine payments (between the account opening and reporting the scam payments) in 
several other currencies from his Wise account. 
The payments Mr D made to AG did increase in amount over time, with him making an 
$8,000 payment in March 2019. But as Ive said above, by this point Mr D was making a 
payment to a payee hed already sent funds to five times previously and who hed paid since 
the opening of the account. Im not persuaded Wise ought to have been concerned about 
the payments Mr D was asking to make or that it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
put on notice that he might have been at risk of financial harm. 
But in any event, even if I consider that Wise ought to have got in touch with Mr D (although, 
for the avoidance of doubt, Ive not made a finding that I think it ought to have done so in this 
particular case), Im not persuaded this wouldve made a difference to whether Mr D went 
ahead with the payments. 
I recognise Mr Ds strength of feelings and that he wont be in agreement on this point. But I 
cant ignore that Mr D has told us that he visited what he believed at the time to be the 
offices for the investment company whilst he was on a business trip, met with a 
representative and was trained in how to use the trading platform. All of which satisfied Mr D 
that he was dealing with a legitimate investment company and making payments towards 
genuine investments. Taking these factors into account, I cant safely conclude that 
intervention wouldve caused the scam to unravel. Given the above, I think the scam had a 
high degree of sophistication and its one Mr D was clearly taken in by. Had he been asked 
about the payments; Im persuaded the answers he more likely than not wouldve given 
wouldnt have caused Wise concern. 
For completeness, Mr D then made two payments to a new payee - SY in January 2020 
after falling victim to a second investment scam. By this point, Mr D had made numerous 
payments in US Dollars and other currencies from the opening of the account. For the 
reasons Ive already set out earlier, I dont think these payments ought to have caused Wise 
concern.  This means that, I cant fairly and reasonably say that Wise could have done more here but 
even if I consider that it shouldve, I dont think it would have made a difference to Mr Ds 
position. So, while I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D, I dont think Wise has 
acted unfairly by declining to refund the payments.
 
Wise, within its final response letter in July 2021, said scammers usually move the funds on 
and that there was no chance of recovering the funds Mr D had lost. It raised that the last 
transfer Mr D made to the investment company was years ago. Ive not seen evidence that 
Wise attempted to recover the funds, although thats not to say that an attempt wasnt made 
 simply that Ive not seen evidence that shows this. And while our service would expect 
Wise to attempt to retrieve Mr Ds money, in the circumstances of this particular case, given 
that the payments were reported years after they were made, I find it unlikely the funds 
would have still been available in the account. With this in mind, I dont find Wise wouldve 
been successful in recovering Mr Ds funds to his account, regardless of any action to 
recover them. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr D has been the unfortunate victim of two investment scams, I 
think Wise decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ds instructions to make the payments and I 
havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, given the time 
that passed since Mr D made the payments and him reporting the scam to Wise (years 
later), on balance, I dont think Wise would have successfully been able to recover the funds 
Mr D sadly lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman