DRN-3312957
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt properly communicate 
its decision to reclassify his Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) to a hybrid type plan which 
meant it could be classed as a defined benefit (DB) arrangement when he drew his benefits. 
He said that led to a different calculation of the amount of his Lifetime Allowance (LTA) that 
would be used. 
Mr B says this led him to exceed his LTA and he incurred a tax penalty  which he thinks he 
could have mitigated if hed been aware of the reclassification earlier. He also says he made 
a decision to draw his principal final salary pension and reduce his hours of employment 
around that time  but wouldnt have done so if hed known how the reclassification would 
have negatively affected his overall income. 
He also thinks that there is some doubt that the reclassification meets the hybrid definition 
according to the 2004 Finance Act. 
What happened
In 1984 Mr B took out a RAC with a company that Aviva subsequently took over. The policy 
schedule indicated that he should expect a basic cash accumulation of £240,698 and a 
basic yearly annuity of £34,908.50 from 25 July 2022  based on certain factors at 
retirement. 
 
In January 2019 Aviva says it reclassified some of its pension products and decided that the 
RAC should be treated as a DB type product going forward. As a result this meant that Mr B 
was now entitled to enhanced tax free cash (TFC) if he took an annuity with Aviva before his 
76th birthday, but it also meant that, for LTA purposes, the amount of allowance used would 
be based on a multiple of his pension income plus the TFC instead of the fund value.
So when Mr Bs adviser was trying to calculate his overall retirement income and how much 
LTA his various crystallisations had used, it asked Aviva whether the purchase of the annuity 
should be treated as a benefits crystallisation event (BCE) 2 or 4. It was confirmed as a BCE 
2. When the adviser carried out the calculation it discovered that an additional £287,425 had 
been added to Mr Bs LTA  so it complained and asked Aviva to explain why the plan had 
been redefined as a DB arrangement instead of a money purchase arrangement.
Aviva said it was satisfied with its classification of Mr Bs RAC as a hybrid arrangement, 
which meant it could be seen as either a DB or money purchase arrangement at the time the 
benefits were taken, depending on what was actually provided. 
On 27 July 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr B confirming the RAC was valued at £354,323 and that it 
would be paying his annuity  although Mr B subsequently postponed the receipt 
temporarily. Aviva confirmed that the amount of LTA that would be used following payment 
was 59.8%. 
But Mr B complained that he hadnt seen any reference to the revised LTA until the 
confirmation of annuity payment schedule from July. Aviva said it had followed its process 
correctly in early 2021 and had quoted the correct LTA percentage used in its quotation of 
9 February 2021, although it accepted it hadnt posted that information until 3 March 2021 
and offered a payment of £200 for the delay in providing the quotation. 
But Mr B wasnt satisfied with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
making the following points:
She thought that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in interpreting the HMRC 
rules about these kind of hybrid policies. She thought Mr Bs plan contained some 
guarantees or contractual arrangements which were known at the start of the policy. 
She thought these were defined benefits but noted they could be lost under certain 
conditions  transferring for example, which meant they could then be accessed as 
money purchase benefits.  This meant the plan was correctly, in her view, classified 
as a hybrid plan.
She noted that Mr Bs plan was looked at under Avivas general review of pension 
products which is when it was reclassified. But Aviva decided to only notify individual 
policyholders of that fact when they decided to draw their benefits. She considered 
whether Aviva could have made Mr B aware of the reclassification earlier but thought 
that it could only carry out an LTA calculation when Mr B had filled out the relevant 
forms and confirmed how he would like to draw his benefits. 
She accepted that Aviva had sent out Mr Bs options pack a month later than it 
should have done, but overall, she thought Aviva had provided sufficient earlier 
warnings and information that Mr Bs plan had some defined benefit and might use 
up more of his LTA than a money purchase plan.  
                          
Mr B didnt agree. He made the following points in reply:
He thought Aviva made a commercial decision to reclassify these kinds of policies to 
encourage policyholders to transfer elsewhere and retain money purchase 
classification. He thought this allowed Aviva to avoid paying underfunded annuities. 
It didnt provide him with any indication of the reclassification until March 2021. He 
didnt accept that Avivas letter of 20 December 2020 made him aware that the plan 
had been classified as a hybrid plan and that it had to wait for an exact LTA 
calculation. He thought it could have made him aware of the re classification after 
2019  which would have given him time to engage a financial adviser earlier. 
He didnt agree with the outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome and I have some sympathy for the difficult 
position he now finds himself in, but I think Aviva has acted fairly here and I dont think it 
needs to do anything further to compensate Mr B  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Was Aviva right to reclassify Mr Bs RAC? 
Aviva says it undertook a review of these type of RAC policies in 2019 and as a result, 
having consulted the guidelines of the Finance Act 2004, it reclassified them from money 
purchase arrangements to hybrid plans  which meant the final classification could be as either money purchase plans or DB arrangements, depending on how the benefits were 
taken. Aviva hasnt confirmed why it undertook this review, although I note Mr Bs pension 
plan was originally taken out with another provider  which Aviva subsequent took over. So I 
dont think it would be unusual for Aviva to ensure a consistent approach is taken over such 
matters  which is compliant with the regulatory requirements, by reviewing the plans.
In any case it wouldnt be for me to tell Aviva when and how it should carry out such reviews 
 thats an everyday commercial decision that Aviva is free to make. What I can do however 
is to decide whether its interpretation of the rules is fair and reasonable and whether it 
communicated any changes to Mr B satisfactorily. 
Mr Bs plan was a RAC, and from the outset it contained certain contractual guarantees 
such as the guaranteed amount of cash he would accumulate and the amount of pension 
hed get per year  if he paid all the premiums. These were referred to as guaranteed 
annuity rates (GARs). But he wasnt obliged to take the benefits on that guaranteed basis 
and could have transferred to another provider, opted to go into drawdown or taken a 
different form of annuity not using the GARs. If Mr B had chosen an alternative outcome the 
plan would have provided fund value based benefits and would have been treated as a 
money purchase arrangement. 
In terms of defining Mr Bs RAC the important reference here is Section 152 of the Finance 
Act 2004, which gave guidelines on how to define different pension arrangements. Point (7) 
states, in this Part defined benefits, in relation to a member of a pension scheme, means 
benefits which are not money purchase benefits (but which are calculated by reference to 
earnings or service of the member or any other factor other than an amount available for 
their provision).  
The contrary money purchase benefits were explained in point (4) as, the rate or amount of 
which is calculated by reference to an amount available for the provision of benefits to or in 
respect of the member (whether the amount so available is calculated by reference to 
payments made under the pension scheme by the member or any other person in respect of 
the member or any other factor).
But the Act also introduced the concept of a hybrid arrangement. These were an 
arrangement where only one type of benefit will ultimately be provided under that 
arrangement, but the type of benefit that will be provided is not known in advance because it 
will depend on certain given circumstances at the point benefits are drawn.
Aviva took the view that Mr Bs scheme was such an arrangement and I think its fair to 
conclude that Aviva and HMRC are best placed to say definitively whether Mr Bs hybrid 
arrangement should be classed as a money purchase or DB arrangement themselves. I 
dont think its right that this service can determine whether or not the way Mr B drew his 
benefits should be classed as one or other arrangement, but I do think its fair for us to 
decide if Aviva has acted reasonably in reaching the decision and interpreting the guidelines 
the way it did. 
The original RAC policy schedule noted that a basic yearly annuity of £34,908.50 from 
25 July 2022 would be paid regardless of whether or not the contributions Mr B made grew 
to the amount required to provide that benefit. 
So there was no prospect of any risk for Mr B as the level of benefit was known and 
guaranteed to be that exact amount as long as he continued to pay the premiums as set out 
in the schedule. So, although the value of the underlying fund could vary over the term of the 
plan, Mr B was guaranteed to receive a specific monetary amount and he would have known that at the outset  as it was set out in the schedule and had been calculated based on a 
guaranteed annuity rate that applied to his premiums. 
I think therefore that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decide that Mr Bs RAC met the 
definition of a hybrid arrangement, leading to the definition of a DB arrangement when he 
ultimately drew his benefits. And to support that claim I think its worth considering what 
would have been required for the plan to be defined as a money purchase arrangement 
when Mr B chose to take the benefits. The Finance Act gave the definition as being the rate 
or amount of which is calculated by reference to an amount available for the provision of 
benefits
So this would suggest that, if it was to be regarded as a money purchase arrangement, Mr B 
wouldnt have known the benefit level of the plan at inception and, although he would have 
been provided with an illustration of the possible fund value, he wouldnt have known the 
final value of that fund. Therefore, under the terms of his RAC, in order to be defined as a 
money purchase plan, he would have had to take his benefits as an equivalent cash transfer 
value and obtain an annuity from another provider  which would itself not be guaranteed 
and would be dependent on other factors such as market and interest rates and lifestyle 
factors at the time. In this case Mr B simply wouldnt have known his retirement income until 
he drew the benefits as it would be calculated using the transfer value and annuity rates at 
that time  and not using the GAR that was already in place.
So, looking at the way in which Mr B eventually wanted to draw his benefits, I dont think it 
operated as money purchase arrangement, but as a DB one. This would support the claim 
that Aviva acted fairly in its definition of the plan and therefore in its calculation of the LTA 
that was used up by the drawing of the benefits under such an arrangement. It could be 
argued that if the calculation was carried out on a money purchase basis  which in my view 
wouldnt be appropriate in the circumstances, then Mr B would have benefitted from using a 
lower percentage of the LTA than he ought to have done. 
However, while Ive concluded that I think Aviva acted fairly over its reclassification of the 
pension plan, I have also considered whether I think it reasonably made Mr B aware of its 
decision to do so. I say that because Mr B says if hed been made aware of the change as 
soon as Aviva carried out the reclassification then he would have been able to take action to 
mitigate its subsequent consequences and wouldnt have amended his working hours (to 
part time) and draw his occupational pension scheme  thereby reducing his overall income. 
Did Aviva make Mr B aware of the reclassification?
Mr B says he doesnt accept that Avivas letter from December 2020 amounts to it informing 
him that it had reclassified the plan as a hybrid for LTA purposes. He says it could have 
made him aware of the change as soon as the reclassification was completed. So Ive 
looked carefully at the correspondence Aviva sent Mr B following the change in the plans 
definition.
Ive been provided with a letter that Aviva sent to Mr B on 20 May 2019. It was entitled 
important tax information about your pension plan. The first paragraph stated that, were 
writing to make sure you're aware of the tax rules for your pension plan. Your plan includes 
guarantees which can apply depending on when and how you take your pension benefits. 
The way your pension plan is valued at the point you take pension benefits can affect how 
much of your lifetime allowance you use up. If guarantees apply you may use up more 
lifetime allowance. 
It then gave an explanation of the LTA and the implications of exceeding it and noted, How will your pension plan be valued for lifetime allowance purposes?
The way your plan's value is worked out for the lifetime allowance is set by HMRC and will 
depend on when and how you take your pension benefits, it can be:
 20 times the annual amount of pension income you get in the first year of payment {plus 
the value of any tax free cash). You may use up more lifetime allowance than you expect if 
this method applies when you take pension benefits; or
 the value of your funds; or
 a combination of these.
Below are your plan's values on 21 April 2019
1.Current transfer value: £316,582.00
2, Approximate lifetime allowance value: £837,496.80 (The lifetime allowance value is for tax 
purposes only - you will not receive this amount)
I think this letter was clear in setting out the position of Mr Bs plan to him and confirming 
how it was to be treated for LTA purposes. It said that If guarantees apply you may use up 
more lifetime allowance, which ought to have alerted Mr B to the fact that, as his RAC did 
contain guarantees in the form of GARs, this would affect the LTA that he might use up. I 
would have expected Mr B to at least have questioned this with Aviva, which I believe would 
then have led to him being made aware of the reclassification of his plan and that it may not 
use up the amount of LTA he had expected  depending on how he chose to draw his 
benefits. 
But even if I am wrong in my assumption of what Mr B ought to have been aware of, the 
letter told Mr B that, as of April 2019, the plans current transfer was £316,582 and the 
approximate LTA value was £837,496.80, this LTA value is for tax purposes only- you will 
not receive this amount. So I think Mr B was made aware, in 2019, that the benefits of his 
plan would use up an LTA of over 2.5 times the transfer value of the plan. I think Mr B ought 
to have been aware that this wasnt what he was expecting from his RAC and that it would 
ultimately affect his future plans. Again I would have expected him to contact Aviva for an 
explanation of what had changed since the inception of the plan, although I note the letter 
also urged him to speak to a financial adviser. You may have, or may still be able to, take 
action to reduce or prevent the lifetime allowance charge from applying. we cant give you 
advice but if you have any questions about this letter please get in touch.
In my view this letter supports the notion that Mr B was made aware of the prospect that the 
guarantees within his plan might affect his LTA value, and also the amount of the LTA that 
would be used up when drawing his benefits. 
I accept that the letter doesnt explicitly refer to the reclassification of his RAC to a hybrid 
arrangement, but I think it contains sufficient information to have made Mr B aware of a 
change in the way his plan might affect his utilised LTA. I think he ought to have been aware 
of the effect such a change would have on the amount of LTA that would then be available 
for him with regards to his overall pension provision  especially his occupational pension 
scheme.  
Reference has been made to two further pieces of correspondence that were sent to Mr B. 
The retirement options letter of 11 December 2020 said that your retirement annuity 
contract provides a guaranteed annuity. This is a defined benefit where the premiums you have paid over the life of the plan have funded a guaranteed amount of pension. The LTA at 
the time was also set out in the letter. So I think this letter also referred to the RAC now 
being considered as a DB arrangement, which following on from the 2019 letter supported 
the position of the RAC not being considered principally as a money purchase plan. 
And a retirement pack dated 9 February 2021, but which wasnt sent to Mr B until a month 
later, said that the fund value on 27 July 2021 would be £351,000. In bold it said that, based 
on certain criteria  such as a dependents pension of 100% and no tax free cash, Mr B was 
entitled to a guaranteed annuity rate from 27 July 2021 paying an income of £31,800. The 
estimated percentage of LTA to be used was 59.26%.
Of course these two letters were received some time after the reclassification took place in 
2019  so I accept they might not have made a significant difference to Mr Bs actions. 
Although I note that the letter from December 2020 was received before Mr B took the 
decision to reduce his hours at work  so I think it did allow him the opportunity to discuss 
the consequence of the plan being called a defined benefit , which I think may have led him 
to understand more about his plan and the LTA situation and would have most likely led to 
him taking an alternative course of action regarding his employment. 
But in any case, I think the letter from 2019 set out all the information that was required to 
alert Mr B to the fact that his plan contained guarantees and could be seen as a DB 
arrangement depending on how he took the benefits. It also set out clearly the actual value 
of the LTA that might be used up in that situation  which was significantly different to the 
transfer value of the RAC at that time. 
I dont think the evidence Ive been provided with supports Mr Bs claim that he wasnt made 
aware of the reclassification of his RAC at the earliest opportunity and I think it demonstrates 
that he ought to have contacted Aviva to discuss the full impact of the situation that was set 
out to him. So I dont think Aviva needs to do anything further here, and I dont think its 
responsible for the overall loss of income Mr B says hes suffered because of actions he felt 
he needed to take following the reclassification of the RAC to a hybrid arrangement.  
Putting things right
Avivas offer of compensation
Aviva has offered £200 for the delay in providing a retirement quotation to Mr B in 
February 2021. Mr B has confirmed that he hasnt accepted the offer. So Ive looked 
carefully at the offer and the impact that the delay had on Mr B at that time. Undoubtably it 
would have caused Mr B some inconvenience not to receive the final figures he could expect 
from his RAC at the time he wanted to draw the benefits. But I dont think it affected the 
amount he was due to receive or the effect on the LTA. 
I think Avivas offer is within the range of what Id expect to see for a delay of that length, and 
that its a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr B £200.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman