DRN-3988825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fairly considered their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have an annual multi trip travel insurance policy which is underwritten by 
Great Lakes. They booked a trip abroad, which included a cruise. The night before the start 
of the cruise they were staying overnight in a hotel abroad. While in the hotel, their 
passports, money and a watch were stolen.
Due to the theft of their passports, Mr and Mrs C were refused boarding to the cruise ship. 
They incurred additional accommodation and other expenses while they sorted out their 
emergency passports. Once they had their passports, they flew home.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to Great Lakes for the stolen items, additional travel and 
accommodation expenses and the unused cruise. Great Lakes considered the claim and 
paid out the policy limits for the stolen items and also additional expenses under the loss of 
passport section, however, it refused to pay for the unused cruise. It said that not being able 
to board the cruise due to the theft of the passports wasnt an insurable incident under the 
policy. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs C complained to Great Lakes about this and also 
about the way their claim had been handled. Great Lakes said that the service received by 
Mr and Mrs C when making their claim was due to a system problem and offered 
compensation of £100, however, it didnt alter its stance on the unused cruise. Mr and Mrs C 
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Great Lakes needed to do more. She 
found that the policy didnt provide cover for the unused cruise costs and so the claim had 
been declined fairly. And while she agreed that the claims handling issues experienced by 
Mr and Mrs C were poor, she felt that the £100 compensation offered for this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators outcome. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint relates purely to the cost of the unused cruise 
and the claims handling by Great Lakes. They are not making a complaint in relation to the 
claim for the stolen possessions and the additional expenses incurred as a result of the loss 
of their passports. Im therefore only considering the cruise cost and the handling of the 
claim within this decision.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr and Mrs C made a claim for the unused cruise cost when they were refused boarding 
following the theft of their passports. Great Lakes has said there is no cover for the unused 
cruise costs in these circumstances.
Our investigator referred to Section 1 Cancellation and Section 2 Cutting Short Your Trip & 
Trip Interruption as the two parts of the policy which provide cover for unused travel and 
accommodation. Under both of these sections there is a list of reasons for which a claim will 
be considered, including  but not limited to  such reasons as illness or injury, being called 
for jury service, redundancy and damage to the policyholders home. 
Has the claim for the unused cruise been declined fairly?
When looking at the specific sections mentioned above, I can see that the policy does 
provide cover for unused travel and accommodation, however, there is a list of specific 
reasons for which a claim will be covered. And losing a passport is not one of the covered 
reasons detailed in the policy. Im satisfied that there is no cover under these sections of the 
policy for the circumstances Mr and Mrs C encountered. 
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there were any other sections 
which would consider Mr and Mrs Cs claim, but the circumstances they found themselves in 
dont appear to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Mr and Mrs Cs claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, 
nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Great Lakes to 
accept this claim. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs comments about not being told that they wouldnt be covered if 
their passports were stolen. I appreciate that not being able to go on the cruise, and 
therefore the financial loss of the cost of that part of the trip, was completely outside of their 
control and I understand their frustration at not receiving reimbursement. However, insurers 
are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The events they 
will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And Im satisfied that Great Lakes has clearly set out the reasons it will accept cover for 
cancellation and cutting short the trip claims in the policy terms provided to Mr and Mrs C. 
So, this point doesnt make a difference to my outcome.
Claims handling
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Great Lakes handled their travel insurance 
claim. They initially submitted their claim by post, but Great Lakes said there was nothing on 
record, despite Mr and Mrs C having a signed delivery note. Mr and Mrs C then provided 
further copies online  they were again told the documents hadnt been received. They had 
to resubmit them for the third time. 
I can fully appreciate just how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs C, especially 
as they have explained that they find it difficult to use a computer, so they had to enlist the 
help of a relative to resubmit the documents. Great Lakes has said there was a system 
outage, and this also caused delays as the claims team couldnt progress the case during 
this time. It has paid compensation of £100 for the stress and inconvenience this situation 
caused. Ive thought about this carefully and Im satisfied that this compensation offer is a fair and reasonable sum based on what has happened. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Great Lakes needs to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman