DRN-4198461
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to refund monies she lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
What Ms W says
Ms W received a message purporting to be from the TV Licensing authority. She provided 
details from one of her debit cards in a response to the message. She later realised it was 
suspicious and contacted Santander about it. They cancelled her card and replaced it with a 
new one.
A few weeks later, Ms W received a call from a person who Ill refer to as J. This person told 
Ms W that he was from Santander and that theyd noticed unusual payments had been 
attempted from her account. Ms W said she checked that J was legitimate by identifying the 
phone number he was calling from which matched the one from the back of her debit card.
J talked with Ms W at some length and went through various aspects of security on her 
account, including telling her recent genuine transactions that had taken place.
J asked if Ms W had received any suspicious messages recently and Ms W told him about 
the TV Licensing message. J explained that this was a phishing attempt to gather 
information about her and that Santander believed there was a corrupt employee working to 
defraud customers. 
Ms W said that J was very professional and used language that she was familiar with from 
other calls with the bank. He developed a sense of urgency and fear by the way he spoke to 
her and Ms W said she was genuinely in fear of losing her funds. J asked Ms W if she would 
participate in an operation to catch the employee and Ms W agreed to be involved.
She was told that a series of payments would be made from her account that wouldnt 
actually be real, and this would help catch the employee. Ms W was given a story to tell 
Santander if they spoke to her about the payments from her account. She was told to tell the 
bank that she was buying a car and was at the dealership, so needed the funds releasing 
immediately. Ms W said she was transferred to several other Santander employees who 
ran her through the call to ensure she didnt raise any suspicion when she made the 
payment from her account.
Ms W made the first payment using her internet banking which wasnt immediately released 
from her account. Ms W said that J appeared to be able to transfer her straight into the 
telephone queue at Santander for Ms W to speak to the call handler about the payment.
Two calls were held with Santander about the payment, and Ms W told them that she was at 
the car dealership and needed the funds releasing immediately because she was purchasing 
a car. Santander discussed generally about the payment and advised Ms W to ensure shed 
actually seen the car. She was advised that if an upfront payment was asked for, it was 
probably a scam.
Ms W told Santander that she was happy with the payment and after checking the account 
number and sort code, the payment was released. Ms W was later persuaded to move 
additional funds as part of the scam to ensure her funds were safe. The following is a table 
of the three scam payments:
Date & Time Amount Account Balance
23/02/2019 13:12 hrs £21,995.00 £2964.44 First Payment
23/02/2019 £8,000 £10,964.44 Transfer into A/C
23/02/2019 19:00 hrs £10,005.00 £959.44 Second Payment
£1,042.68 £2,002.12 Transfer into A/C
£6,401.58 £8,403.70 Transfer into A/C
24/02/2019 09:20 hrs £9003.70 £600.00 (D) Final Payment
Total Lost £41,003.70
Ms W was told by J to report to her local branch of Santander the following Monday for the 
replacement of her cards and new accounts. When Ms W visited the branch, they knew 
nothing about her situation and quickly confirmed shed been the victim of a scam. 
Ms W sought a refund from Santander, but they didnt provide her with one as she 
authorised the payments and told them she was purchasing a car at the time. Eventually, Ms 
W complained to Santander about their decision not to refund her. Ms W also reported the 
scam to Action Fraud. Santander declined the complaint and Ms W, via her representatives 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Santander say
Santander reviewed their handling of the payments made from Ms Ws account and advised 
her that their security system had blocked the first payment for further investigation. This 
was completed during the call held with Ms W where she told them she was purchasing a 
car. Santander said that scam education was carried out during the call and they werent 
liable for the refund. Santander told Ms W that the transaction couldnt be considered under 
the latest scam regulations because they hadnt come into force at the time of the payments.
The investigation so far
Both parties were asked for information about the scam. Ms Ws representatives provided a  
breakdown of the situation, explaining why they thought that Santander had failed Ms W. In 
summary their case was that:
Santander should have carried out further questioning of Ms W at the time. The didnt 
think that the questions went deep enough and the situation warranted further 
questioning.
The second and third payments should have also been questioned which would have given the opportunity to prevent further losses.
Inter account transfers added to the unusual nature of the payments.
Santander breached several duties relating to the protection of their customers 
accounts.
Santander provided details of the payments and some call recordings held with Ms W. They 
reiterated their position regarding the refund. 
After considering the evidence the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained 
that:
Based on Ms Ws responses to Santanders questions, they had no reason to 
suspect she was the victim of a scam and refuse to make the payment.
Ms W was persuaded to lie about the situation (based on her belief that she was 
assisting an investigation).
Ms W wasnt showing any signs of distress or nervousness that Santander should 
have identified.
The second and third payments werent unusual in the context of the reason given for 
buying a car.
Santander had attempted to retrieve the funds at the time but were unsuccessful.
Ms W disagreed with the outcome and her representatives made further comment, 
summarised as:
Santander failed to act in accordance with BSI standards related to increased 
account protection after Ms W reported the phishing call to them a few weeks 
earlier.
Santander should have been on the lookout for red flags in Ms Ws answers and 
asked further probing questions.
The scam was quickly uncovered when Ms W went into a branch. If Santander had 
asked appropriate questions at the time  it should have been easily uncovered.
The pattern of payments were unusual and the final payment left Ms W with an 
overdraft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice (including those referred to by Ms Ws representatives in their submissions 
to this service); and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
I was sorry to learn that Ms W was a victim of a cruel scam and I recognise that she made the payments on good faith, believing she was assisting with an investigation.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
These were all authorised payments even though Ms W was the victim of a scam. Ms W 
made the payments herself. So, although Ms W did not intend the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
her account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Ms W when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I
have considered the position carefully.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander should have
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. Here, the first payment was 
made by Ms W using her internet banking facility and was blocked by Santander.
Ms W spoke with two call handlers about the payment leaving her account. The first part of 
the call is not available. During the conversation with the second call handler, its apparent 
that the reason for the payment had already been discussed and Ms W had told them that 
she was at a car dealer to buy a vehicle, and this was the reason for the payment. She was 
asked if shed done the usual checks before handing over such a large sum of money, 
completed a test drive and happy with what she was purchasing. Theres reference to the 
earlier conversation about scams and Ms W is told that if she hadnt seen the car, its likely a 
scam.
Ms W confirms shes happy with the payment and its then released. The later payments (to 
the same payee) werent stopped by Santander.Ms W has said the way she acted on the call should have given Santander enough evidence 
to realise something was amiss. She says she was stressed and nervous. Having listened to 
the call, theres nothing that immediately stands out that I think the call handler(s) should 
have picked up on. Ms W answered the questions and appeared at ease with the situation 
when she told them to make the payment. So, I dont think that Ms Ws manner during the 
call should have given Santander grounds to approach the situation differently.
Ive also considered the points raised by her representatives that Santander failed to ask 
enough probing questions during the calls. Ms W was asked what she was making the 
payment for and told them it was for a car purchase, and she was at the dealers. 
Given this was the basis for the payment, its reasonable for Santander to approach the call 
based on a possible car scam. They asked relevant questions regarding this because the 
main threat from a car scam is that it doesnt actually exist. So, when Ms W said she was at 
the dealers with the car, this would alleviate that possibility.
Once Ms W had told Santander that she was at the dealers, I dont think they had any other 
reason to enquire further about the payment. I dont think there were any particular red 
flags that Santander missed here, and it was reasonable for them to release the payment.
It's been argued that multiple payments to a car dealer are unusual and the movements 
through Ms W account were suspicious. Having further considered this point, I dont think in 
these circumstances those payments were particularly noteworthy. 
Moving other funds into an account for an expensive purchase isnt out of the ordinary and I 
dont think that Santander should have intervened at either of the later payments. As far as 
Ms Ws story went, she was buying a car and those payments went to the same payee, so I 
think that Santander would treat them as part of the same purchase that theyd already 
spoken to Ms W about. If theyd called her again, theres no reason to think the conversation 
would have gone differently.
A case has been made that the earlier phishing call should have elevated Santanders 
response to Ms W. At the time of the call, Ms W contacted Santander about it and they 
cancelled her debit card and re-issued it. There are no further notes of what happened, but 
typically a conversation would be held to talk about scams. 
Whilst theres no specific evidence that Santander educated Ms W about this, in a call with 
them after the scam, she refers to keeping an eye on her account. Ive taken this to mean 
Ms W was aware of the dangers posed by the phishing attempt. It seems likely that 
discussions were held at the time and together with the cancellation of the card, I dont think 
Santander could have been expected to do much more.
I understand the point her representatives are trying to make about how quickly the scam 
was uncovered when Ms W went to the branch for her appointment. But, the situation was 
very different from that which faced the call handlers when Ms W was spoken to. By that 
time, all three payments had left the account and Ms W had been told she had an 
appointment with a named person. But, there was no appointment and the named person 
didnt exist, so its no surprise that Santander were able to quickly determine that a scam 
had taken place. 
Recovery of funds
Unfortunately the funds had already been moved on by the time Santander were made 
aware of the scam. I dont think theres anything more they could have done to retrieve those 
funds. Its likely that the appointment made for Ms W was a deliberate tactic to provide a window for the scammers to move those funds before the scam was uncovered. 
I have much sympathy for Ms W as the victim and I think its worth reiterating that it was 
scammers who were responsible for stealing her funds. The complaint against Santander is 
that they didnt do enough to protect her funds and as a result should now refund Ms W. 
Ive objectively reviewed the evidence and Im afraid that I dont think that Santander could 
have been expected to do any more in these particular circumstances. I understand this will 
be a disappointment to Ms W, but I cant ask Santander to refund her the funds she lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman