DRN-2682493
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) accepted liability and settled a claim 
against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr G contacted Ageas because he was involved in an accident. Mr G says he 
was going to enter a free parking space and the other driver was trying to overtake him. But 
she then realised she didnt have room and swerved suddenly causing the collision. He has 
told us they both left their vehicles and were discussing the incident when a man (the 
witness) came over.
 
Both parties accept that liability was initially going to be denied. But the other drivers 
representatives provided evidence from an independent witness. In September 2019, Ageas 
sent an agent to interview the witness and obtain a statement. 
Following receipt of the statement, Ageas wrote to Mr G and explained that the agent felt the 
witness would stand up well in court and supported the other driver in full. Therefore, they 
decided to accept liability and settle it as a fault claim. 
Mr G was unhappy because he was concerned with the credibility of the witness. Ageas 
provided their final response letter in September 2019. They didnt uphold the complaint and 
felt their decision was the correct one. As Mr G remained unhappy, he asked us to 
investigate. 
In the investigators view, Ageas handled the claim fairly and reasonably. Ageas accepted 
the investigators view, but Mr G didnt. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the conditions outlined in the policy booklet state that Ageas, when dealing with a 
claim, may carry out the defence or settlement and take any legal action on behalf of the 
policy holder. So under the conditions it is for Ageas to decide how to deal with the claim. Its 
not the role of this service to decide whether Mr G was at fault for the claim.
 
However, we expect insurers to handle claims fairly and reasonably. Mr G is concerned that 
the description of the incident by the third party lacks detail and that the injuries described 
were exaggerated. I understand how strongly he feels about this. But like Ageas I dont 
consider the brevity of the claim form to be unusual. I accept that more detailed statements 
would usually be provided by the parties during litigation. Whilst the claim form only gives a 
brief description of the incident, the other driver held Mr G at fault. 
I note that Mr G spoke to Ageas in July 2019 and provided his version of events. Ageas say 
a non-fault position was initially held based on Mr Gs report. I can also see Ageas put Mr 
Gs account to the other drivers representatives. Whilst I understand Mr Gs concerns, its 
reasonable that further evidence could change Ageass position on liability.
Ageas received and reviewed the witnesss Statement of Truth in August 2019. I can see 
from their claim notes that they felt liability should be admitted and that it appeared 
independent. But Ageas did carry out investigations to check the witnesss independence. 
There were no signs he knew the other driver. 
Nevertheless, in August 2019 Ageas agreed to send an agent to interview the witness and 
obtain a statement as Mr G indicated that he didnt think he was credible. I think this was fair 
- Ageas took into account the points raised and sent an agent to investigate further. 
Ive reviewed the witness statement obtained by the agent in September 2019 and Ive 
considered his description of the incident. The agent also sent Ageas a letter to outline their 
findings from the interview. The agent felt the witness was competent and placed full blame 
on Mr G. Also, that the witness had watched the incident occur and didnt know the other 
driver but felt obliged to help.  
I can see Ageas wrote to Mr G in September 2019 and explained the claim would be dealt 
with as a fault claim. They outlined the findings of the agent and why they had made this 
decision. They said there was no evidence to show the witness was not independent and 
that he supported the other drivers claim. They felt Mr G would have great difficulty 
defending the claim and that a judge wouldnt be persuaded by his arguments. 
Mr G also spoke to Ageas and asked them to get CCTV footage. Ive seen correspondence 
in which Ageas requested it from the owners of the car park but it was no longer available. 
I note Mr G remains very concerned that the witness wasnt independent and showed bias. 
He says this is because of how they interacted at the scene and the language in the 
statement. Hes highlighted some examples of this. Hes also provided an email from the 
police which says there were no independent witnesses. 
Its not clear to what extent the police investigated this matter. But Ageas were presented 
with an independent witness and they reasonably investigated his independence by 
searching social media and arranging an interview. They concluded the witness was 
independent. Im not persuaded the language, or the interaction of the parties shows this 
conclusion was unfair. 
Also, Mr G says the witness couldnt have seen the incident. Mr G sent Ageas photos and a 
map which shows the position of the witness. Ive also reviewed these. But I can see the 
positioning of the witness was taken into consideration by Ageas and their notes from 
August 2019 show that it was part of the instruction to the interviewing agent. The witness 
said he had seen the incident and the agent felt this was credible.
Moreover, Mr G says the witnesss account of the incident was wrong and contradicted what 
the other driver had said. Ive already considered the brevity of the claim form. Ageas have 
also considered this and have explained that ultimately both the witness and the other driver 
held Mr G to blame. The agent also felt the witnesss statement supported the other driver. 
Whilst I do understand what Mr G has said, Im not persuaded this is enough to say Ageass 
decision was wrong. 
Additionally, Mr G has provided photographs to show the damage to his car isnt consistent 
with the witnesss statement. The photographs show damage to the front of the car, and not 
the rear bumper which is where the witness described the impact and damage.  Ageas say its not uncommon to see accidents where one vehicle presents without a 
scratch, but its still accepted that the vehicles collided. Theyve explained the damage to the 
other drivers car is consistent with the witnesss account. They say the damage to the front 
of Mr Gs vehicle couldve happened at any time. They cant link it to the incident because 
there was no engineers report as Mr G didnt want to pursue a claim for the damage. Im 
satisfied from this explanation that the location of the damage has been considered and 
Ageass decision was fairly made.
 
Having reviewed all of the evidence, Im satisfied Ageas handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably. It is for them to decide whether there is a likely chance of success in defending 
liability before a judge. I do understand Mr Gs frustration and Im grateful for his detailed 
submissions but Im satisfied Ageas considered the points raised by him about the evidence 
and when concerns were raised, they carried out further investigation. Ultimately, they felt Mr 
G wouldnt be able to defend the claim. The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that this was fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman