DRN-3763049
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly gave him two credit card account 
facilities that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr G applied for and was given a credit card account with NewDay with 
an initial credit limit of £600, under the Debenhams trading name. This was followed by 
three credit limit increases. 
In March 2018, Mr G applied for and was given a second credit card account with 
NewDay with an initial credit limit of £450, under the trading name of Aqua. This was 
followed by two credit limit increases. 
Mr G complained to NewDay to say that the accounts shouldnt have been opened for 
him because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Gs complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that for each account it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that NewDay failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Mr G with credit. But even if that were the case, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the credit was unaffordable. And I 
dont consider that problems Mr G had had with an earlier Aqua account, opened in 2014, 
was something that would affect that decision given the checks NewDay carried out in 2018 
did not suggest the relatively modest levels of opening credit were unfair or unaffordable 
I say this because Mr G told NewDay that he earned a relatively good income with a 
manageable level of unsecured debt. Mr Gs bank statements show that Mr Gs 
self-employed income was regular enough so that he was able to cover his committed 
expenditure and daily needs. I can also see that whatever other monthly commitments 
Mr G may have had for other credit, the total income each month was roughly at least the 
same as his monthly expenditure. And from what Ive seen, Mr G didnt have any defaults 
or other adverse information registered against him at the time of opening each account. 
So I dont there think there was anything significant that would have put New Day off 
providing the opening credit limit for each of these cards. 
Mr G says NewDay ought to have acted in respect of numerous gambling transactions on 
both accounts. I havent detected any significant levels of gambling showing on these 
accounts. I can see the occasional gambling transaction on Mr Gs bank statements but 
not at such a level that, had NewDay seen them, I would expect them to see granting 
further credit on the accounts as being unsustainable. 
For the Debenhams account, I can see that Mr G managed his account reasonably well. Ive 
seen there were three overlimit fees charges and occasional cash withdrawals but they 
werent suggestive of Mr G being having difficulties with his account. Ive also noted that 
Mr G had requested the first credit limit increase, from £600 to £1,500 in December 2018. 
Mr G also contacted New Day to confirm he was happy with each of the two further 
increases he was granted, up to £2,250 in March 2019 and up £3,750 in September 2019. 
For the Aqua account, again Ive seen that Mr G managed his account reasonably well. He 
didnt use up all of the available credit as soon as it was granted and paid the account down 
when it neared the credit limit. Ive noted that there was no account activity between 
November 2018, when the account balance was cleared in full, and June 2019. Ive seen he 
incurred overlimit fees on at least two occasions as well as a late payment fee, and also 
used the account for a modest cash advance on one occasion. But I dont think his overall 
account use ought to have raised any concerns with NewDay such that granting him further 
credit limit increases would have been irresponsible. 
I think better checks to ascertain Mr Gs income and level of day-to-day spending and 
debt would have been a good idea when applying each credit limit increases. But I havent 
seen enough evidence or information for me to think that more thorough affordability 
checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it provided Mr G was 
unreasonable. 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But I have noted all the submissions 
he has made in his complaint and looked at all the evidence hes sent us. Having done so, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman