DRN-3641309
Complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In March 2017, Mr Ys accounts received a number of payments into them. The funds were 
immediately dissipated in a series of cash machine withdrawals and debit card transactions.
Shortly afterwards, NatWest received a notification from the third-party bank, which sent the 
payments to Mr Ys account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim 
of fraud. NatWest reviewed Mr Ys accounts, decided to close them and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
After subsequently learning about the fraud marker, Mr Y complained about NatWests 
actions. NatWest looked at Mr Ys complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr Y remained 
dissatisfied he asked our service to look into the matter.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ys concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr Y unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr Y disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Y is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ys account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr Y was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr Y allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ys complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ys account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ys 
accounts in March 2017, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr Y was complicit in allowing his accounts to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr Y told us that he believed that he was getting involved in crypto-currency trading with 
someone much older than him. And he shared his account number and sort code with them. 
Mr Y hasnt been able to provide anything to substantiate what hes told us.  
Ive thought about what Mr Y has said. But Im afraid that there are a number of things which 
simply dont add up here and which mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an 
unwitting participant. I firstly say this because Mr Ys statements show that fraudulent funds 
entered two of his accounts with NatWest. And it isnt clear to me why Mr Y would have 
opened a second account and provided the details for both of them for this trading.
Secondly, Im mindful that Mr Ys statements show no evidence of any crypto-currency 
trades, or the involvement of any platform. What Mr Ys statements show are a series of 
cash withdrawals and debit card purchases. So the activity on Mr Ys account simply doesnt 
support what hes told us here, or more crucially that he had a reasonable basis for 
concluding that he was involving himself in a legitimate enterprise. 
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr Y being unable to provide anything at all to 
corroborate what, on the face of things, appears to be an implausible version of events 
means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think 
its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ys account. And bearing in mind what 
Ive said above, Im also satisfied that NatWest was also reasonably entitled to conclude that 
it was more likely than not Mr Y was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr Y  especially as I know that Mr Y is saying 
that this is having a significant impact on him. Be that as it may, I cant simply ignore the fact 
that the available evidence appears to show that Mr Y was complicit in fraudulent activity 
here. So I hope Mr Y will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman