DRN-3154683
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Openwork Limited failed to allow for an early redemption charge 
(ERC) when calculating how much money theyd need to borrow to purchase their new 
home.
What happened
In 2020 Mr and Mrs H sought mortgage advice from Openwork. They planned to move to a 
more expensive property and needed to obtain a new, larger mortgage to do so. 
Documentation from the time suggests Mr and Mrs H first met with Openwork in           
March 2020. Based on its conversations with Mr and Mrs H, Openwork produced a 
mortgage illustration for a loan amount of £446,417, dated 5 March 2020.
An email exchange between Mr and Mrs H and Openwork breaks down how Openwork had 
calculated the mortgage amount. During that exchange, Mr and Mrs H confirmed that the 
property price had decreased by £5,000 and that Openwork should ensure the lender was 
aware of that before the survey, due to take place the following day. And it confirms 
Openwork should proceed. 
The summary of Openworks advice was sent to Mr and Mrs H on 21 April 2020, confirming 
the proposed mortgage amount was £446,417. The lender wrote to Mr and Mrs H on          
21 April 2020 asking them to check their mortgage application, which showed a loan amount 
of £446,269.
At completion of the purchase in July 2020, Mr and Mrs H discovered that they still had to 
find approximately £6000 to settle their account with their solicitor. They say this was 
because Openwork didnt include the ERC of £6,084.43 that applied when redeeming their 
existing mortgage. And that, to complete the purchase, they had to borrow that money from 
family at short notice, under the understanding that they would repay it within a couple of 
months. Theyve also told us Mr H subsequently lost his job so repaying the family loan 
hasnt been possible and thats caused difficulty. So, they complained to Openwork.
In its final response letter dated 10 September 2020, Openwork said it didnt uphold Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint. It explained that the fact find completed during a telephone interview with 
Mr and Mrs H recorded that there was no ERC applicable to their existing mortgage. And a 
statement dated 31 December 2019, supplied to Openwork by Mr and Mrs H with their 
complaint, shows that an ERC of £6,084.43 applied at that time. So, Mr and Mrs H would 
have known about it and should have shared that knowledge with Openwork in March 2020. 
But there is no evidence they did that. Following the telephone interview in March 2020,     
Mr and Mrs H emailed Openwork to confirm the amount outstanding on their existing 
mortgage, but again failed to mention the ERC.
Openwork says an email from it on 10 March 2020 shows its commitment to ensuring the 
figures were correct. The email outlined the calculations and asked Mr and Mrs H to recheck 
the figures. It also recommended Mr and Mrs H get a redemption quote for the help to buy 
part of the loan. Mr and Mrs H replied telling Openwork to proceed. Openwork also says it 
obtained a statement from the advisor which confirms she was never provided with a 
statement showing the ERC. She also said she became aware of the shortfall when she 
contacted Mr and Mrs H on 2 July 2020 to discuss protection cover. During that call she 
asked Mr and Mrs H to recheck if an ERC was applicable and was told one wasnt.
Openworks final response letter also says that it subsequently contacted the new lender and 
it confirmed that  in principle  Mr and Mrs H could add the shortfall amount to the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H asked us to consider their complaint. Based on the evidence available, our 
investigator didnt think Openwork did anything wrong. He thought it was reasonable to 
assume Openwork didnt have any previous knowledge of Mr and Mrs Hs existing mortgage 
and was reliant on them for information about it. He found that, in an email after completion 
of the fact find during the telephone interview in March 2020, Mr and Mrs H confirmed the 
outstanding mortgage amount was £202,814.42. He thought Mr and Mrs H retrieved that 
information from the statement dated 31 December 2019, but failed to provide Openwork 
with the ERC figure also showing on that statement.
Our investigator found that Openwork emailed Mr and Mrs H to check figures and they 
agreed with them and didnt take the opportunity to mention the ERC or provide the 
statement showing it. He thought that Openwork contacting the lender after completion and 
the lender offering  in principle  to add the shortfall amount to the mortgage, may have 
resolved the matter. But he saw no evidence that Mr and Mrs H followed-up on that.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said Openwork asked them for the outstanding balance of the 
mortgage and that is what they provided. Openwork didnt ask about an ERC. And 
Openwork didnt tell them about the potential to add the shortfall amount to the mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs H say it is the responsibility of the advisor to be clear on what they are asking for 
and Openwork didnt ask them about early redemption charges. In a further response,        
Mr and Mrs H say Openwork had full access to their previous mortgage details from the 
previous lender in order to act on their behalf to cancel it. They say Openwork shouldnt 
have simply taken verbal communication over the phone as confirmation of the outstanding 
balance  it should have asked for a hard copy of the mortgage statement.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings, their complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint Ive thought about whether, in the circumstances, 
Openwork could reasonably have been expected to have thought an ERC was applicable to 
Mr and Mrs Hs existing mortgage, given the information provided by Mr and Mrs H. And Ive 
thought about whether, in the circumstances it should have asked for documentary evidence 
of the overall redemption figure.
Before Openwork made its recommendation, it had reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances 
by completing a fact find during a telephone interview with them. The resulting document  
the advice fact find  outlines the findings of the interview. Under a section entitled 
Mortgages  existing mortgages all the relevant details of Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage were noted, including that there was no ERC. Mr and Mrs H say that there is no evidence to show that Openwork did ask them whether an 
ERC applied, while Openworks advisor has stated she did. I think its unlikely Openwork 
could have completed that section of its fact find form without asking Mr and Mrs H specific 
questions about their existing mortgage. Given that the question of the ERC is as relevant as 
any other in that section and the fact that the form prompts the advisor to ask about it, I find 
it unlikely that the advisor didnt mention it  instead choosing to assume one didnt apply. I 
find it much more likely that, for any number of reasons, a prospective borrower may not 
believe that an ERC currently applied to their mortgage. So, on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that Openwork asked whether and ERC applied.
Mr and Mrs H say it is the mortgage advisors responsibility to ascertain full mortgage 
details. I agree, but I think the advisors knowledge will always be limited by the accuracy of 
the information provided by the prospective borrower. In this case, Ive seen that Openwork 
emailed Mr and Mrs H to check the figures it went on to use for the application.                   
Mr and Mrs Hs response was clear  that Openwork should proceed.
That brings me to the question of whether Openwork should have insisted on documentation 
confirming the amount required to redeem Mr and Mrs Hs existing mortgage. I think it would 
have been sensible for Openwork to have asked for documentation showing this if it had any 
doubt about the information Mr and Mrs H provided. But I havent seen that there was any 
cause for doubt. As Ive said above, Mr and Mrs Hs instruction to proceed, having checked 
Openworks figures, was clear. And I think its likely Openwork did ask the question during 
the fact find interview. Mr and Mrs H have never said they were unsure about the question of 
the ERC  only that they werent asked about it. So, I havent seen that Openwork was given 
sufficient reason to insist on documented confirmation of the redemption figure.
Mr and Mrs H say Openwork had full access to their previous mortgage details from the 
previous lender in order to act on their behalf to cancel it. But I dont think it is the role of the 
mortgage advisor to cancel the existing mortgage. Thats something the solicitor does by 
making the redemption payment. I dont think and havent seen anything to suggest that     
Mr and Mrs H gave Openwork consent to obtain details directly from their existing lender. 
Nor, based on my own experience, do I think that would be standard industry practice. So, I 
think Openwork would be wholly reliant on Mr and Mrs H for information about their existing 
mortgage.
I think it was reasonable of Openwork to approach Mr and Mrs Hs new lender about adding 
the shortfall to the mortgage, after it was made aware. Mr and Mrs H have said they only 
became aware of that from our investigators findings. But Openwork said the lender was 
prepared to consider that in its final response letter dated 10 September 2020. So, even if 
that was the first Mr and Mrs H heard of it, and while I dont know when Mr H lost his job, I 
think Openwork did inform them of the possibility to add the shortfall amount to the mortgage 
in reasonable time.
In summary, I think, on balance, Openwork did ask Mr and Mrs H if an ERC applied to their 
existing mortgage. And I dont think Mr and Mrs H gave Openwork cause to insist on 
documentary confirmation of the redemption figure. I think it was reasonable for Openwork to 
rely on the information provided to it by Mr and Mrs H and Ive seen that Mr and Mrs H were 
given reasonable opportunity to check the figures that were being used for their mortgage 
application. So, I dont require Openwork to take any further action in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Openwork Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman