DRN-2819388
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) won't pay his landlords 
insurance claim for water damage in full.
 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr A reported a claim for water damage on his landlords insurance policy held 
with RSA. The leak started in the bathroom and damaged the bathroom and kitchen below. 
Mr A appointed a plumber who fixed the leak the following day. 
Mr A submitted a claim for the damage for £6,500. This included replacement kitchen units 
and a worktop. Due to the size of the claim RSA sent out specialists to consider it. 
RSA felt that the estimate included work than wasnt related to the leak. Their agents had 
quoted £500 (£400 net of Mr As policy excess) for the necessary work relating to the leak. 
But RSA offered Mr A £1,000, net of his £100 policy excess. They felt £1,000 was 
appropriate to cover the necessary repair work.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr A complained. He wanted RSA to cover all the costs hed 
submitted. But RSA felt their offer was fair and reasonable and that it took account of the 
areas affected by the leak.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He felt that RSA 
had shown that theyd covered all of the damage caused by the leak. So he felt it wouldnt be 
fair to ask RSA to do any more.
Mr A didnt agree. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all I note that landlords insurance policies dont cover everything that might go wrong 
with a house. Instead, they cover specific events. In particular they dont cover general 
maintenance issues.  
RSA have accepted that there has been an escape of water incident. But theyve declined to 
cover part of the claim based on an exclusion in the policy for wear and tear. The exclusion 
covers a number of things including gradual deterioration or any gradually operating cause.
Based on extensive reports of the damage produced by their agents, RSA have concluded 
that there are a number of damaged areas that werent damaged in the escape of water 
incident. The reports show that most of the damage didnt seem to have arisen from the 
leak. So RSA said theres unlikely to have been an insured event under the standard insured 
events for that damage.
 
But Mr A said that prior to the leak his property was well-maintained. He said now its damp 
and mouldy, with a water-damaged kitchen and a ceiling thats come down. 
Mr As builders quoted £6,500 for the work they said was needed. They confirmed that they 
felt all the work was related to the leak. 
Ive looked carefully at all of the evidence to decide whether  on balance of probability -
most of the damage happened gradually or not. 
The information in the two reports produced by RSAs agents is much more detailed than 
that provided by Mr As builder. And both reports disagree that all the work Mr As builder 
quoted for was needed as a direct result of the leak. Ive not seen any written evidence from 
Mr As builder.
Ive also seen photos showing the property to be in a generally poor state of repair. Ive not 
seen any photos showing the property in a well-maintained state before the escape of water 
incident. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that on balance of probability most of the 
damage happened gradually. 
I also need to look at whether Mr A shouldve been aware that damage was occurring in 
order to decide whether RSA treated him fairly when they relied on the exclusion to decline 
the claim.
RSA have provided detailed evidence which shows that the damage theyve refused to cover 
cant have happened because of the escape of water incident. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that if more regular maintenance had been carried out the damage couldve been 
avoided or reduced. As Mr A couldve done more, its not unreasonable for RSA to decline to 
cover the claim in full based on the gradually operating cause exclusion.
Emergency repairs
Mr A recently got in touch to tell us that he felt his policy entitled him to £1,000 of emergency 
call out and repairs. He wasnt given this.  
But Ive looked carefully at the policy details and I cant see any reference to cover for 
£1,000 of emergency call out and repairs. 
So Im unable to ask RSA to do anything on this.
Delay in the claim and complaints process
Mr A also complained that RSA took a long time to provide their final response letter. And 
that they didnt send anyone to assess the damage for almost three months after the 
incident. He said that any water would have dried up after so long. 
I can see that RSA didnt send their agents to assess the damage until 12 August 2020. 
Following the assessment, the agents noted: 
Whilst there has been a gap between the reporting of the claim and the inspection  I do 
not think this is excessive enough to prejudice the outcome of the survey. It is highly likely 
there has been a problem for some time.
While in some cases I might award compensation for a delay like this, I note that RSA 
offered a settlement of £1,000 net of the £100 excess, so £1,100 in total. Their agents had 
suggested that £400 net of the £100 excess (£500 in total) wouldve been enough to carry out the water damage repairs. So Im satisfied that in offering a higher settlement RSA have 
taken reasonable steps to put things right here.
In summary, Im satisfied that RSA have covered the damage caused by the leak. Theyve 
shown that most of the repairs Mr As builder suggested were needed arent related to the 
escape of water damage. Instead, that damage has happened gradually and so isnt covered 
under Mr As policy. Theyve offered more than their agents recommended to cover the 
water damage. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask RSA to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons given above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman