DRN-3216576
The complaint
Miss H complains that Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D & G) inappropriately 
terminated a call with her when she had been on hold for a long time, and she doesnt want 
to use the approved repair agents for the repair.     
     
What happened
In September 2020 Miss H took out a repair policy for a gaming handset through a third-
party retailer at the point of sale. Cover was provided through D & G. 
In September 2021 Miss H rang D & G to report a fault with the handset and organise a 
repair. She says she was on hold for a long time, and whilst on hold she was also playing a  
game online. She was swearing during the course of that game and didnt realise that her 
call to D & G had been answered and the call handler could hear her. 
The call handler terminated the call after hearing Miss H swear a second time.  
When Miss H rang D & G back, she was given details about the approved repair agent, and 
was told she would be sent a padded envelope to send the item in. Miss H was unhappy 
with this process and she was also unhappy with the approved repair agent as she had used 
them previously and said they had damaged her item. She logged a complaint about the call 
handler terminating the call and about having to use the approved repair agent.  
D & G sent their final response on 2 December 2021. They said that they have a policy in 
place which allows call handlers to terminate a call if a consumer is swearing and they 
continue after being asked to stop. They also advised that if Miss H doesnt want to use the 
approved repair agent, she can pay for her own repair and make a claim or cancel her policy 
and have a refund. 
Miss H was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Hs complaint and thought that D & G had 
acted fairly and reasonably.     
Miss H disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Terminating the call
I have listened to both calls Miss H made to D & G. Whilst I can hear that Miss H is swearing 
at the game in the first instance and not at the call handler, I have listened to the call with the 
benefit of knowing her explanation for what happened whereas the call handler wasnt aware 
of this at the outset of the call and confusion arose. I also note that Miss H continued to 
swear after she has been asked not to. I appreciate that Miss H didnt swear at the call 
handler, but rather in reference to the length of time that she had been waiting, but 
regardless of that she had been asked not to swear and did so. And so, whilst I think that 
there was some misunderstanding in the call, and I appreciate that it must have been 
frustrating for Miss H to have the call terminated after such a long wait, I dont consider that 
D & G have done anything wrong in terminating the call. They have apologised for this 
misunderstanding and terminating the call and I think this is sufficient. 
 
The repair
I have looked at what the policy says about repairs. 
It says:
Only engineers approved by us are authorised to carry out repairs under this policy, unless 
we agree otherwise in advance.
It is normal for insurers to have their approved engineers/repair agents for different types of 
product. Miss H doesnt want to use the approved repairers, and so the final response offers 
the option of organising her own repair and making a claim within the terms of the policy, or 
alternatively, she can cancel the policy and have a refund of premiums. 
I think there are enough options given there for dealing with the claim under the policy, and I 
cant see what else D & G could have offered. So, I consider that they have acted fairly and 
reasonably in this situation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Domestic and General Insurance Plc do 
not need to do anything further. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman