DRN-4445031
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Vitality Life Limiteds online health review, and the impact this has 
had on the premium on her life insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
But in short, Mrs C complains about the options given to answer Vitalitys online health 
review question relating to alcohol. Vitality has explained that the answers given dont impact 
the policy or the premium. It has explained that Mrs C could either answer the question by 
choosing one of the options given, or she could navigate around the question by answering 
zero to alcohol in the first place. Vitality has also shown that Mrs Cs premium hasnt been 
impacted because she didnt complete the review.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, but Mrs C didnt agree with her findings. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Firstly, its not within my power to tell Vitality what questions it should or shouldnt ask 
as part of its online health review, or the options it should give as answers. But my 
role is to decide if Vitality has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Im satisfied that Vitality has given Mrs C reasonable options for navigating around 
the question on alcohol. And in any event, it has explained that the answer given 
doesnt have an impact on the policy or the premium. The results of the review are 
intended to be used as a guide for members and for Vitality to make a 
recommendation on how to live a healthier lifestyle.
Im also satisfied that Vitality has shown that Mrs C hasnt missed out on a lower 
premium increase at policy renewals due to not having completed the review. This is 
because the additional points she would have earned by completing the review 
wouldnt have led to her achieving the points threshold required for a higher Vitality 
status. Achieving a higher Vitality status has an impact on the premium.
Mrs C also wasnt happy with how long it took for Vitality to answer her complaint. 
But Mrs C could have brought the complaint to us sooner if she wasnt happy with 
how long Vitality was taking to issue its final response. And in any event, I dont think 
this delay specifically caused Mrs C any unnecessary distress or inconvenience.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but I dont think Vitality has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman