DRN-1615204
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2008. Mr T says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr T bought the PPI through an internet application. He said he was pressured into buying 
the PPI; he said it was implied that he wouldnt get the credit card without PPI, so he wasnt 
aware that PPI was an optional product. He says he was not asked whether he had any sick 
pay or other insurance and wasnt told about the terms and conditions or the cost and 
benefits of the policy.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr T disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. He added more recently 
that he bought the PPI for the life cover, so he was surprised when TPF told him he couldnt 
use it when he turned 65.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Having seen the internet application screenshots which Mr T most likely would have 
seen at the time of the sale, I think TPF made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out. So I think it was shown as an optional 
product. 
As this was an internet application, I couldnt see evidence on the screenshots Ive 
seen which might confirm he was pressured to buy PPI or that he had to buy PPI 
before he could get the credit card. So I cannot uphold the complaint for this reason. 
As this was an internet sale, TPF didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have 
to check if PPI was right for him. It was for him to decide if he wanted to buy the PPI. 
But it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.  
Its possible the information TPF gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover, particularly the life cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off from taking out the cover. 
Which means TPF doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
 But TPF will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
TPF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because TPF didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, TPF has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what he said about his employee 
benefits and that the life cover ended when he was 65  the likely retirement age at that 
time. But these points dont change my decision because this was a non-advised policy, so it 
was up to him to read about the policy through the pages of the internet process before 
buying it, taking into account his own situation and his financial needs as at 2008 during his 
working life. 
what the business needs to do
If it hasnt already done so, TPF has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. TPF should also pay back to Mr T any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
TPF should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr T the difference between 
what Mr T owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. TPF should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But  unless it has already done so - Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay 
back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman