DRN-1549270
The complaint
T has complained about its card terminal agreement with Paymentsense Limited. T is 
represented by its owner, Mr T.
What happened
T entered into a card terminal hire agreement with Paymentsense. Mr T was subsequently 
concerned to see that two payments that had been made to him by third parties, for £400 
and £8.50, had then been taken from his account, by way of chargeback.
Paymentsense told Mr T that when hed entered into the agreement, hed confirmed that all 
transactions would be carried out with the cardholder present. But these two transactions 
hadnt been.
Mr T doesnt think he agreed that all transactions would be carried out with the cardholder 
present. Given the nature of his business, its sometimes necessary for payments to be 
taken over the phone. He doesnt feel the risks of chargebacks happening was properly 
explained to him. Further, hes explained he was promised an incentive for entering into the 
agreement, but he didnt receive this.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt think Paymentsense 
had done anything wrong. She was satisfied that the paperwork clearly showed, in a number 
of places, that all transactions would be face-to-face, and Mr T had signed this. Although she 
accepted that the paperwork may have been filled in by a Paymentsense agent, she was 
satisfied that Mr T had checked it over. She was also satisfied that the paperwork set out the 
risk of chargebacks.
As regards the cash incentive, the investigator was satisfied, on balance, that Mr T would 
have received the flyer containing information about how to claim it in the documentation 
bundle. Mr T had said he hadnt wanted the hassle of the paperwork, so she thought he may 
have overlooked it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Im satisfied that the paperwork clearly sets out that there will only be face-to-face 
transactions. Mr T signed this, and so I think should reasonably have been aware of it. It is 
clear and also sufficiently prominent. The same paperwork also clearly sets out that 
chargebacks may occur  and again, Mr T signed this, so should reasonably have been 
aware of it.
Turning to the cash incentive. I agree that it seems likely, on balance, that Paymentsense 
would have followed its standard practice and included the information flyer in the 
documents bundle. I know its very easy not to always look at everything, especially in very 
busy times. But I think it likely Mr T overlooked the flyer. This explained how to claim the 
incentive. I dont think it fair to hold Paymentsense responsible for Mr T not claiming it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman