DRN-4378162
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account without giving him warning or a 
reason. He would like a reason and compensation.
What happened
The facts which led Mr U to bring the complaint to this service are well known to both parties, 
so Im not repeating them in full here.  
In summary, Santander carried out a review of an account Mr U held with Santander in 
November 2022.  Santander contacted Mr U and asked some questions about the funds in 
his account.
Following the review Mr Us account was closed with immediate effect on 11 January 2023. 
The balance of £21.93 in Mr Us account was sent to him by cheque.
Unfortunately, Santander issued the cheque in the name of a different payee. So, Mr U had 
to return the cheque to Santander, which he did on 26 January 2023. Mr U finally received 
the balance on his account on 7 February 2023.
Mr U has said this was his main account and his salary was paid into it. Because his account 
was closed immediately, he had to rearrange all his direct debits. He was without money for 
a period of time and had to borrow money for living essentials from his family and friends. He 
said he hadnt done anything wrong, and he cant see why Santander chose to close his 
account without notice. 
Mr U said he had fallen behind with bills and it had affected his credit rating.
Mr U complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Santander had acted fairly when they closed the account. She said Santander 
werent obliged to give Mr U a reason. She thought Santander had made an error when they 
issued Mr U with the wrong cheque and that meant there was a delay in receiving his funds. 
Because of this she awarded £50 compensation as well as 8% from 26 January 2023 to 7 
February 2023.
Mr U was unhappy with the view he said he hadnt received the answers he wanted.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Mr Us account was reviewed by Santander. Following the review Santander asked some 
questions of Mr U to fulfil their Know Your Customer obligations.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Us account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Us account and asked him to provide information about 
how he was operating his accounts.
Santander decided to close the account with immediate effect and let Mr U know on 
11 January 2023.
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Us account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Us 
account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
I know Mr U found it difficult to have his account closed and he has told us he had to borrow 
money from friends and family. He has told us he fell behind on his bills and it affected his 
credit rating. I appreciate that having an account closed would have a substantial impact on 
Mr U and I thank him for letting us know how this affected him. But in order to provide 
compensation to Mr U I would have to conclude that Santander had acted unfairly when they 
closed his account. I have already said I think Santander acted fairly and applied the terms 
and conditions of the account correctly, so I wont be awarding compensation for the impact 
the closure had on Mr U and on his financial position.
Reasons
I understand that Mr U wants Santander to explain the reason it closed his account with 
immediate effect. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of 
their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr U the reasons behind the account 
closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr U this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Account balance
On closing the account Santander sent the balance in the account amounting to £21.93 by 
cheque. Unfortunately, Santander sent Mr U a cheque made payable to a different payee. 
This meant that Mr U had to return the cheque back to Santander, which he did on 
26 January 2023. Santander have accepted they made an error here. Our investigator 
awarded Mr U £50 compensation and interest at 8% on the balance from the date he would have got his cheque on 26 January 2023 until the 7 February 2023 when he received the 
correct cheque. Having looked at the evidence Im satisfied the compensation is fair. I say 
this because the error meant Mr U had to send the cheque back and he was put to some 
inconvenience in having to do this. He also didnt have access to his funds on 
26 January 2023, he is being compensated for this by being awarded interest on the closing 
balance in his account.
I have also looked at the time between the account closing on 11 January 2023 and Mr U 
receiving the cheque in the wrong name on 26 January 2023, to decide if Santander caused 
any delays but having done so Im satisfied they didnt.
In summary Santander acted fairly when they reviewed and closed Mr Us account. They 
werent obliged to give him a reason for the account closure, so I dont think Santander did 
anything wrong in respect of this part of the complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Santander should pay Mr U £50 compensation together with interest at 
8% on the balance in his account at the time of closure for the period between 26 January 
2023 and 7 February 2023.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold the complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mr U:
£50 compensation 
Interest at 8% on the balance in his account at the time of closure for the period 
between 26 January 2023 and 7 February 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman