DRN-3700603
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited charged her platform fees without 
giving her notice.
What happened
Mrs F has a trading account with Saxo. In January, May, July and October 2020 she was 
charged platform fees for her account. Shes complained that this fee was charged due to a 
lack of activity in her account, and shes said if Saxo had given her notice she wouldve been 
able to take action to avoid the fees being charged.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained the charges were 
applied in line with the agreement Mrs F has with Saxo and there wasnt a requirement for 
Saxo to further inform Mrs F about the charges prior to them being taken.
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. She said she 
understands the fees were taken as part of the agreement, but she feels the inertia that 
Saxo has relied upon to take the fee is unethical. She provided more recent examples of 
emails from Saxo which outline changes to the inactivity fee and that interest can be applied 
to cash in the accounts. She believes Saxo hasnt acted fairly and has compared it with 
other platforms that did give warnings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the fees Saxo charged Mrs F were in line with the terms of her account 
so I dont intend to touch on this further. The issue being complained about is the lack of 
warning given to Mrs F prior to the fees being charged. Having considered this carefully, I 
dont think Saxo has acted unreasonably so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The fees that were charged in this case was because of account inactivity  that is that Mrs 
F didnt place any trades or open any positions, she just held cash in her account. I 
appreciate that if Saxo told Mrs F that she was about to be charged she could have logged 
in and placed a trade, but I dont think it was unreasonable that Saxo didnt do this. Mrs F 
was aware her account was live and contained a cash balance. And shed accepted the 
terms which outline that an inactivity fee would be charged if she didnt make any trades 
over a quarter but kept a cash balance. Ive seen nothing that leads me to believe Saxo 
ought to have given her any warning because she wouldve been aware she wasnt trading, 
and it had made her aware when she opened the account that a fee would be charged. Im 
also mindful that this was over a ten-month period  this wasnt a case of years of account 
inactivity that Saxo was continually charging for.
I appreciate Mrs Fs strength of feeling that Saxo is relying on inertia but Mrs F was holding 
cash with Saxo without using the account, I dont think its unreasonable that Saxo, in line 
with its terms, then charges for this. And whilst I appreciate other platforms may do things 
differently, this doesnt make Saxos practices in this case unfair.
Ive seen the additional emails Mrs F has recently received which she believes shows Saxo 
has changed its stance. The first one outlines changes in the inactivity fee  so I dont find 
that this is Saxo now warning her of upcoming charges. Its an email detailing changes in its 
terms. The second email relates to interest earned on cash balances. This email doesnt 
negate any of the terms relating to inactivity fees that Mrs F accepted when she opened an 
account with Saxo. So, I dont uphold this complaint. Ive seen nothing to suggest Saxo 
acted unfairly in applying the inactivity fees to Mrs Fs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman