DRN-2556147
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy over the phone in April 2001, sometime after he applied for a store 
card by post.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Mr Ms outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he was 
too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that balance 
until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mr M returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to let Mr M know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before it 
added PPI to his account. AXA says it would have done this, but Mr M says he was told he 
had to have the PPI in order to activate his card. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information and I havent been able to listen to a recording of the call. Because of this, I need 
to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. Weve seen a number of AXA 
telephone sales around the time Mr Ms policy was sold and from what we know, the 
representatives usually used a call script that would have prompted them to make it clear the 
policy was optional and to get the customers consent. So, without further information, I think 
its more than likely than not that Mr M would have been aware the policy was optional and 
that he agreed to take at the time.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check it was right for him. But AXA 
did need to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could decide whether to take it 
or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr M about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. And Ive thought carefully about whether this would have 
mattered to Mr M because he says he was self-employed and had a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of sale.
Looking at the policy terms, I dont think being self-employed is likely to have made it any 
more difficult for him to make a claim. So, I dont think the unemployment terms would have 
put Mr M off taking the policy.
Mr Ms pre-existing medical condition would have been excluded by the policy, so our 
adjudicator asked Mr M for more information about it. Mr M could not confirm whether he 
was on any medication or if he had any time off of work for his condition around the time the 
policy was sold. He also didnt provide any further detail on how it affected him day to day. 
So, I dont think Mr Ms condition would have put him off taking the policy either. And I think 
the policy could have been useful to him if he developed any other conditions that he might 
have needed to use the policy for.
Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any other relevant terms. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr M at the time of 
sale. And Mr M could have cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed.
As Mr M was self-employed, he would not have received any sick pay if he was too ill to 
work and he says he didnt have any other way to make his repayments if he fell on hard 
times. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr M and I dont think better 
information would have changed his decision to take the policy. It follows, I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman