DRN-3660523
The complaint
Miss K and Mr S complain Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) settlement 
offer is unfair on a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ill refer to Miss K throughout as shes the policyholder. 
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
A claim for an escape of water incident was made in April 2021
Admiral accepted the claim and made a settlement offer of £3,181.55 minus the 
excess
Miss K obtained four quotes for the repairs, which varied from £5753.30 to £8,832
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to assess the damage. The LA provided a 
scope of works stating that the works would total £2,927.48 which excluded works for 
trace and accessing the leak and any related work. However, Admiral still agreed to 
offer the original settlement figure 
As Miss K still disagreed with the settlement offer, Admiral requested Miss K 
provided a more detailed itemised costs for the quotes, but as these were not 
received, it settled the claim for £3181.55 less the policy excess
Miss K decided to get the repairs done which cost her £9,424.42. Miss K says she 
isnt expecting Admiral to pay this as she changed the design of the bathroom and 
cloakroom, but she wanted it to cover the amount in line with the four quotes she 
obtained of approximately £7,000
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed with Admiral that the quotes 
included betterment works and additional works which werent related to the damage 
caused by the water leak. Miss K feels it would be fair for Admiral to just remove the 
bathroom suite from the quote that she supplied that contained more detail and for 
Admiral to pay the remaining amount of £6292.39. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about the settlement offer.  The policy allows Admiral to decide 
how it will settle a claim however, it didnt offer to carry out the repairs. So, in this case, our 
services general approach is that if Admiral wish to cash settle instead, then it must be at 
reasonable cost to the consumer. In other words, the amount paid should be enough to put a 
policyholder back in the position they were in before the loss occurred. However, I wouldnt 
expect it to pay for any betterment works i.e. replacing a bathroom suite when it wasnt 
damaged by the leak itself.
Ive looked at the quotes Miss K has provided, as well as the scope of works and the loss 
adjusters report provided by Admiral. 
The loss adjusters report notes there is substantial pre-existing damage in the cloakroom  
Miss K hasnt disagreed with this but said as the stud/partition wall had to be replaced so 
any of the pre-existing damage was irrelevant. But from the photos I can see existing 
damage in other areas of the cloakroom not just on the stud wall. Admiral said it had only 
scoped for the repairs to the damaged area in the cloakroom as the unrelated area is pre-
existing. It also noted the damage caused by the insured locating (tracing) the leak and said 
that this damage was not due to the leak itself and because Miss K didnt have trace and 
access cover on her policy this work wouldnt be covered either. 
Ive looked at the policy schedule and note that the policy doesnt cover for trace and 
access. And I can see Admiral didnt exclude this when they first gave a settlement figure but 
as it agreed to revert to their original offer of £3181.55, Im satisfied this is fair.
Admiral are entitled under the policy to request information from the policy holder to support 
a claim. Admiral has said the quotes Miss K supplied were not detailed as requested and 
they included betterment works, additional works that werent related to the damage. It also 
noted the costs for labour were high. 
Ive compared the quotes to the scope of work. Some of the quotes have no breakdown and 
therefore these cant be considered against the scope of works. I also note they mention 
including a new bathroom suite, but the costs are not broken down for this either. One quote 
that is slightly more detailed also includes a new suite. Admiral however have said they feel 
this quote is inflated and asked Miss K to either get the quotes detailed or provide further 
quotes or a further breakdown of labour costs for it to consider. 
Miss K has explained that shes been unable to provide detailed and itemised quotes and 
has since had the work completed. She also said the contractor wouldnt put a warranty on 
the work if they re-fitted her old suite. I understand getting new quotes now would not be 
possible as the work has now been completed. But I feel it was reasonable that Admiral 
requested this at the time, and it wasnt unreasonable to ask Miss K to provide information 
as per the requirements of the policy. There is only one quote with any kind of detail and 
Admiral felt the costs were inflated so getting another detailed quote wasnt in my opinion 
unreasonable. I am therefore satisfied the settlement given by Admiral is fair in the 
circumstances. If Miss K is able to obtain evidence of a breakdown of the costs on the other 
quotes she obtained or further detail about the labour costs as requested by Admiral, then Id 
expect Admiral to consider the extra cost. 
Miss K also said Admiral took too long to process the claim and mentioned that she felt that 
it took so long had something to do with her name, which Miss K referred to as being foreign 
sounding. I agree with our investigator that I havent found anything in the information 
provided to us to suggest that Admiral have treated Miss K differently because of her name, 
and Ive seen no evidence of any considerable or avoidable delay so I wont be directing 
Admiral to do anything else.
With regards to Admiral giving incorrect advice about no evidence of a settlement offer being 
made, when an offer had in fact been made before. I can see Admiral apologised for this and 
awarded £25 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for this error.My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman