DRN-1735009
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs H. 
What happened
 This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy started in January 2005. 
Barclays says it sold Mrs H the policy during a phone call, but Mrs H says she was sold it 
during a meeting. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the complaint I 
also thought, on the evidence I had, that the complaint shouldn't be upheld. But I thought it 
would be fair to explain in more detail my view of the evidence. So I decided to write this 
provisional decision to give everyone the chance to comment. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H and her representatives have said, but my current view is 
that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs H has said she wasnt given a choice. However, it wouldnt be fair to decide 
Barclays did something wrong in this way, unless there was some reasonable 
supporting evidence. And, so many years later, it would be difficult to know what really 
happened  especially as memories can fade over the years. Also, from what we know 
of the sales processes at the time, I do think its likely Barclays made Mrs H aware the 
PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. The form, which would have been used 
in a meeting, presented the PPI as a choice; and the evidence we have is that 
advisers were required to check a customer wanted PPI in phone sales. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs H. So this means it had a higher 
standard to reach  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Hs individual 
circumstances. And my view, on the evidence I have, is that it was a suitable 
recommendation. Mrs H has said she had very good public sector sick pay. But the 
PPI potentially could have covered her credit card bill for longer than her full sick pay 
lasted, if she was off work long term. And it would have paid out at the same time as 
her employer sick pay, or redundancy pay. It seems also Mrs M didnt have savings to 
fall back on, at the time. So the PPI could have left Mrs H more financially secure for 
longer. 
So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
 And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the details of the PPI. Its 
possible this wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think, in her 
circumstances, fuller information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether or not she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Mrs H says she was sold the PPI in a meeting, and Barclays says it was by phone. In 
the circumstances of this case, I dont see that it makes a difference  Ive set out my 
current thinking on whether Mrs H was given a choice, and the effect of the 
information she gave; and this applied whether it was a meeting or phone sale. But the 
evidence does suggest that it was sold about four weeks after Mrs H applied for the 
credit card, and that this was by phone  probably when she phoned in about an 
aspect of the new card.
This means my current view is that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs H. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 Barclays said it had nothing further to add. I didn't hear back from Mrs H or her 
representatives. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision I don't think the PPI was mis-sold, but I do 
think it was fair that Barcays paid back some of the commission and profit share it received 
from selling the PPI. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not intending to award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman