DRN-2088177
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
declined her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). She said 
that the car she acquired (using her Tesco Bank credit card) was misrepresented. She wants 
the cost of the car refunded.
What happened
In August 2017, Mrs A and her husband (Mr A) purchased a car along with a paint protection 
policy. Mrs A paid for part of the purchase cost using her Tesco Bank credit card.
In summer 2018, Mr A noticed the paintwork had faded in some areas due to bird lime and 
arranged for the car to be reviewed under the paint protection policy. He said that a 
representative from the paint protection warranty company visited in July 2018 and said that 
the issues weren't for them. The car was then taken to a local dealer for a professional 
opinion and Mr A was told that the condition of the bonnet wasn't satisfactory.
Mr A raised these issues with the dealer in January 2019. The dealer noted that issues 
relating to bird lime wouldn't be covered by the paint warranty. It said that checks had been 
carried out before the car was provided. The dealer then offered to buy back the car at the 
trade value. This wasn't accepted and Mrs A raised a section 75 claim with Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank noted possible issues with the debtor- creditor supplier relationship but 
continued with the assessment of the claim. It said that no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation had occurred and so the claim wasnt upheld.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said that the car had undergone checks before it 
was sold to Mrs A and that these included bodywork checks. She said that this should have 
identified the issues with the paintwork and bonnet. Because of this she thought a 
misrepresentation had occurred and that had Mrs A known about the previous repairs or 
issues with the paintwork at the point of sale she wouldnt have acquired the car. She said 
that the trade value of the car should be refunded along with the cost of the paint protection 
warranty.
Tesco Bank didnt accept our investigators view. It said that the car had undergone the 
checks as advertised and so a misrepresentation hadnt occurred. It said the issue raised by 
Mrs A was cosmetic and that there was nothing to suggest there were any mechanical 
issues with the car (noting that it had been driven over 20,000 miles since Mrs A acquired it 
and had passed its MOTs first time). It said that although the inspection report noted that 
repairs could have been completed to a higher standard this wasnt part of the approved 
used car checks and so didnt show a misrepresentation had occurred. It noted the repairs 
were carried out before purchase and Mrs A accepted the quality of the car at that time. It 
said that the checks were carried out and the bodywork believed to be of the required 
standard at the point of sale.
Tesco Bank said that the paint warranty was provided by a third party and that it wouldnt be 
honoured due to the bird lime and so, even if the previous repairs did invalidate it, this wasnt 
relevant. Because of this it said it didn't have any obligation to refund this amount.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
There was a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place which hadnt been broken 
by the involvement of Mr A.
There hadnt been a misrepresentation. The information provided showed that the 
approved used car checklist was completed before the sale. The checks needed to 
take place to a reasonable standard and having looked through the checklist I could 
see most of the categories related to mechanical aspects of the car. Mrs A hadnt 
raised any concerns about how the car was driving and based on the mileage and 
the passed MOTs I didnt find anything to suggest there were issues with the 
mechanical aspects of the car.
Mrs A was upset to find that previous repairs had taken place but as the car was 
around five years old at acquisition, I didnt find it unreasonable to accept that repairs 
may have taken place. I had nothing to suggest the dealer was aware of the repairs 
or that Mrs A asked about previous repairs and was given incorrect information. I 
noted the comments that a mechanic should have noticed the bonnet had been 
replaced but I had nothing to suggest that Mrs A asked about previous repairs and so 
I didnt find this was misrepresented. 
I accepted that the car had a replacement bonnet. The report provided stated that 
there were non-standard fixings, but I had nothing to say that these were causing an 
issue. The report said the bonnet wasn't painted or aligned correctly. There was 
limited evidence about these issues, but on balance, I thought that there were issues 
with the bonnet following a repair that was carried out before Mrs A bought the car. 
Based on this I found, on balance, that the bonnet wasn't of a reasonable standard at 
purchase and this had resulted in the issues with the paintwork.
The inspection report noted further evidence of previous repairs. Any obvious defects 
would have been clear at acquisition and therefore Mrs A could have raised those at 
the time. The information in the inspection report didn't suggest that the repairs were 
causing issues with the car or that the repaired areas were deteriorating due to the 
quality of the repairs. I had nothing to show that the other repairs were causing 
issues and given the age and mileage of the car, I did not find that I could say these 
repairs meant a breach of contract occurred.
Overall, I didnt find that I had enough to say that a misrepresentation of the car 
occurred. I did think, on balance, that the bonnet wasn't of a reasonable standard 
and that this resulted in further issues with its paintwork.
I didnt find that a full refund was an appropriate remedy for the issues with the 
bonnet. The issue with the bonnet didn't appear to have affected the use of the car. 
However, the bonnet appeared to be deteriorating and so I thought repairs would be 
a suitable remedy.
I didnt have anything to show that the dealer knew the car had undergone previous 
repairs, and so I couldnt say that the paint warranty was deliberately misrepresented. I hadnt seen the details of the warranty but considering the 
comments in the inspection that the previous repairs would have meant this policy 
was invalid I thought the policy wasnt fit for purpose and a breach of contract had 
occurred. Therefore, I said that unless evidence was provided to show that the policy 
was valid given the repairs that the car underwent, the cost of this policy, £200, 
should be refunded.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
Tesco Bank said that cosmetic issues on a car of the age and mileage of Mrs As shouldnt 
be considered a breach of contract. It said the car was fit for purpose and noted that the bird 
lime could be causing, or at least exacerbating, the paintwork issues.
Tesco Bank said that the company administering the paint warranty rejected the claim due to 
the bird lime damage. It said that the comment about by the manufacturer that the previous 
repair would invalidate its warranty wasnt relevant as this wasnt what was purchased. It 
didnt think it fair to say the warranty was mis-sold and it didnt think it right that it was 
required to show the warranty was still valid, rather it was for Mrs A to show there had been 
a breach of contract. It further noted that the bird lime damage may now have invalidated the 
warranty. 
Mrs A reiterated her comments that the checks carried out before the car was provided 
werent to a reasonable standard and said it wasnt up to her to enquire about repairs but 
that the checks should have identified these. She said she wasnt the expert and so 
shouldnt be expected to identify issues when she acquired the car. She also challenged why 
the redress only related to a respray when the report suggested the repair hadnt been to a 
satisfactory standard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services, or the provider of the credit if there's been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. For a complaint to be eligible for section 75 the 
agreements need to be structured so that a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, I find that this is in place in this complaint.
I note Mrs As comments about the checks carried out before the car was provided, however 
as I have set out, I do not find it unreasonable to accept that a car of the age and mileage 
that Mrs A acquired could have undergone repairs before supply. Had this been a concern to 
Mrs A she could have asked about this at acquisition. 
The issue is whether any repairs that had been undertaken meant that the car wasnt of a 
reasonable standard when supplied. A report was carried out by a BMW bodywork centre in 
March 2019 which stated:
It would appear that the bonnet has been replaced at some stage and has not been painted 
correctly or aligned properly, nonstandard fixings have been used to connect the safety 
catch lever to the bonnet, and there is evidence of glue residue around the bonnet latch 
mount bracket area where it has not been cleaned off properly prior to paintingFurther comments about cosmetic issues regarding the car were also included and it was 
stated that both sides of the car had been painted at some stage suggesting that panels had 
been replaced.
While the report makes comments about the repairs, the issue that was identified was the 
paint peeling on the bonnet. As I set out in my provisional decision I do not find that this 
should have happened at that point and given a repair had previously been undertaken I find 
that this suggests the repair wasnt sufficiently durable. I note Mrs As comments about a 
respray only, but my provisional decision set out that the bonnet should be repaired to a 
reasonable standard and I find this reasonable.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that 
the other areas that were noted as being repaired meant that the car wasnt supplied in a 
satisfactory condition.
Tesco Bank said that cosmetic issues shouldnt be considered a breach of contract on a car 
of the age and mileage of Mrs As. I accept that that repairs and cosmetic issues can be 
present at acquisition on a used car. However, it is clear from the information provided in the 
report that a repair had been carried out to the bonnet and given when the peeling paint was 
identified, I dont find that this repair was sufficiently durable. Therefore, I find that this was 
an issue and as Mrs A wasnt aware of this at the point of supply she cannot be said to have 
accepted it. Therefore, I find It reasonable that this is remedied.
Regarding the warranty, I note Tesco Banks comments that the manufacturers report says 
that the issues would have invalidated its warranty, but the warranty was provided by 
another company. Mrs A provided a copy of the paint protection warranty and this included 
exemptions regarding the quality of previous paintwork. This does refer to the paintwork at 
manufacture, but I find that the information included in the warranty combined with the report 
on the previous repairs raises concerns about the validity of this warranty at the point of 
supply. I appreciate the comments made about the bird lime, but this is a separate issue for 
which I agree there is an exemption. The issue I have focused on is whether the previous 
work carried out on the car before it was acquired by Mrs A meant this warranty wasnt 
suitable. In this case, I think, on balance, the information suggests there could be issues with 
the validity of the warranty and so I find the fairest solution is for the cost 
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should refund Mrs A the cost of the paint warranty along with 
8% interest from the date of sale to the date of settlement. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should also cover the cost of repairs to the bonnet to bring it to a satisfactory standard. It 
would be reasonable for quotes to be provided by Mrs A in advance of this work taking 
place.
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC feels it is required to withhold tax from the interest by HM 
Revenue and Customs, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off and give a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should 
take the actions set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman