DRN-3394244
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) have declined to offer her a refund 
after she transferred money to a friend by way of a loan. Ms B says her friend scammed her 
out of the money.  
What happened
In October 2019, Ms B was contacted by a friend by email. Ms B had known this friend for 
around 10 years. Quite soon after the initial contact, Ms Bs friend asked if he could borrow 
£5,000 which he would repay in around 2 months. Ms Bs friend didnt go into detail about 
the reason for the loan or what it was for but Ms B says she trusted her friend and wanted to 
help him out of whatever difficult situation he had found himself in.
On 26 October 2019, Ms B made a £5,000 payment to her friend using the details he had 
sent to her via email. The payment was made over the telephone following a conversation 
with a Co-op advisor. Upon receipt of the money, Ms Bs friend stopped all contact with her.
Ms B says she initially contacted Co-op within 6 months of the transfer but was told there 
wasnt anything it could do to help. Ms B said she left it at that and tried to pursue her friend 
directly. However, she later sought some legal advice and was advised to contact Co-op 
again. 
Ms B contacted Co-op again on 10 April 2021 to again inform them of what had happened to 
her. Co-op told Ms B she had reported the matter too late for it to be able to do anything to 
help her - which it has now said was incorrect. Co-op has offered Ms B £100 for the upset 
caused by initially providing her with this incorrect information and it went on to contact the 
bank the funds were paid to, to see if any could be recovered. However, the receiving bank 
later confirmed that none of Ms Bs funds remained in the account.
Ms B has said what happened to her has caused her severe anxiety and some ongoing 
medical problems. Shes told us that, having had time to think about what happened, she 
now believes Co-op shouldve done more than it did to prevent her from making the payment 
in the first place. Shes also stressed that had she been given correct advice about what to 
do should the transaction turn out to be fraudulent, she wouldve had a greater chance of 
recovering her money. Instead she has spent years trying to recover the money herself but 
to no avail. Ms B says that because of this, it is now unfair for Co-op to decline her claim due 
to the amount of time that has passed  if she had been given the correct information from 
the outset, she wouldve reported what had happened much sooner than she ultimately did. 
Ms B has also said that had the bank had completed a verification check on her friend, as 
they do now, this wouldve identified that he had recently been in receipt of another loan 
from a family member and this would have alerted her to danger. Ms B has also said that 
Co-op should have done more checks on her friend before allowing her to transfer money to 
him. 
Co-op declined to offer Ms B a refund. It said it had no reason to be suspicious of the 
payment Ms B had made at the time  she had told them she was making a payment to 
someone she had known personally for over 10 years. And so there would have been no 
reason for it to block the payment and not carry out Ms Bs payment instructions.
Ms B disagreed and one of our instigators looked into her complaint. Our investigator initially 
said that she thought the complaint should have been upheld as Co-op shouldve asked Ms 
B more questions about the payment before it processed it on her behalf and had this taken 
place, the payment couldve been prevented. However, Co-op disagreed and provided 
further submissions. Co-op said that having re-reviewed the complaint, it didnt think that Ms 
B had been the victim of a scam at all and that her complaint amounted to a civil dispute 
between her and her friend in regard to the repayment of a loan. 
Having considered Co-ops additional comments our investigator agreed. And she went on to 
say that even if she were to consider that Ms B had been the victim of a scam, she didnt 
think there was anything more Co-op couldve done to prevent the payment from leaving Ms 
Bs account - for the largely the same reasons as Co-op had set out. 
Ms B disagreed with our investigators opinion and as an agreement could not be reached 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator  for largely 
the same reasons.  
I appreciate that this is going to be extremely disappointing for Ms B, this is a significant 
amount of money and Im aware this was the majority of her savings, but I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to require that Co-op offer her a refund now. Ill explain 
why. 
Was Ms B the victim of a scam
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm, such as Co-op, is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. So, 
when Co-op processed the £5,000 payment now in dispute here, it was complying with Ms 
Bs instructions to make payment and these obligations. At the time, Ms B did wish to pay 
£5,000 to the account details provided and there were no mistakes made - the money was 
sent to the correct person/account details. 
However, in order for me to make a decision as to whether Ms B is entitled a refund, I firstly 
need to establish whether I think she has most likely been the victim of a scam. And I dont 
think I can say that here. Whilst I accept that Ms B was expecting the £5,000 to be repaid, 
and it hasnt, Ms B hasnt been misled about the reason she was sending money, about 
where it was going to or told she was paying for a product or service. And so, Im persuaded 
that this is a civil dispute between Ms B and her friend about the repayment of a loan which 
Ms B can pursue her friend directly for, if she chooses to do so. And so, I dont think it would 
be fair to require Co-op to refund the payment Ms B made.Co-ops obligations
However, for completion, even if I were to be satisfied that Ms B had fallen victim to a scam 
and I assessed Co-ops actions in processing the payment against the applicable 
regulations, I still dont think this would result in Ms B receiving what she wants - a full refund 
from Co-op. I say this because I dont think Co-op wouldve been able to prevent the 
payment from taking place  even if probing questions about the payment had been asked at 
the time. Im not persuaded that there was anything about the circumstances leading up to 
the payment that wouldve put Co-op on notice that Ms B might be at risk of financial harm. It 
is only now, now that the money hasnt been paid back, that we know something isnt quite 
right. But Im not satisfied there wouldve been any indication of this at the time. Ill explain 
why in more detail below. 
As Ive said above, it is not in dispute that Ms B authorised the transfer herself. And so, I 
accept that the payment was authorised even though Ms B now believes she has been the 
victim of a cruel scam. So, although her funds have not been returned to her, under the 
Payment Services Regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms B would be 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time, Co-op should fairly and reasonably have been on the look-out 
for unusual and out of character transactions. 
I accept that the payment Ms B was making shouldve appeared as somewhat unusual and 
out of character. It was of high value compared to the normal activity on the account and it 
was being made to a new payee. And so, Im satisfied Co-op shouldve questioned Ms B 
about the payment before they allowed it to leave her account. And having listened to a call 
recording of the conversation that took place between Co-op and Ms B at the time, I think 
some proportionate questions were asked and Ms Bs answers reassured Co-op that 
everything was above board. And I dont think further questioning wouldve prevented the 
payment either. Ill explain why. 
Co-op questioned Ms B about the payment at the time and Ms B told them she was 
transferring money to her friend by way of a loan. Co-op also asked Ms B some further 
questions about the payment, such as how she had been provided with the details of the 
account. Specifically, Co-op asked Ms B whether she had been provided with the account 
details directly or via text or email. Ms B confirmed that she had received the account 
details directly from her friend and that she had known him for 10 years. Reassured, Co-ops 
advisor agreed to process the payment. 
I should stress here that it is not unusual for long-term friends to lend each other money. And 
so, I dont think this wouldve necessarily appeared untoward or unusual. Im not persuaded 
that any of Ms Bs answers to the questions she was asked shouldve put Co-op on notice 
that Ms B was at risk of financial harm - to the point that it shouldve disregarded its 
obligations and refused to follow her payment instructions. There was no way that Co-op 
couldve uncovered that Ms Bs friend did not intend on returning the funds to her. Neither 
Co-op nor Ms B couldve known this at the time. It is only now, with the benefit of hindsight 
and now the money has not been repaid, that this has come to light. And so, it wouldnt now 
be fair to say that Co-op should bear the responsibility for the loss of these funds. It had an 
obligation to follow Ms Bs payment instructions unless it had genuine concern that she was 
about to be defrauded. And in the particular circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied that 
there was an indication this was about to happen. 
I recognise that our investigator initially said that Co-op shouldve enquired if Ms B had 
drawn up a loan agreement with her friend. But, whilst this mightve been sensible, there was no obligation on Co-op to provide this type of financial advice or for Ms B to have entered 
into such an agreement in order to allow Co-op to process the transaction on her behalf. 
Informal agreements between established friends are common and it is not for the bank to 
check that formal agreements have been drawn up before they follow their customers 
payment instructions. 
I also want to acknowledge what Ms B has said about Co-op having not advised her about 
the prevalence and consequences of email scams. But as Ive said above, Co-op werent 
aware at the time that Ms B had received her friends account details by email and even if 
they had been, Ms B was not falling victim to an email scam. Email scams generally involve 
scammers hacking into the email accounts of their victims and then contacting their friends 
and family to ask for money. To avoid this, banks will generally tell their customers to contact 
their friend or family member directly, usually via telephone, to confirm the request is 
genuine. But this is not what was happening here. There has been no suggestion that Ms 
Bs friends email account was hacked. And so even if Ms B had been asked to contact her 
friend directly, it seems likely he wouldve confirmed that the email request had come from 
him and was genuine. And so Im not persuaded that this line of questioning wouldve 
resulted in a different outcome for Ms B either. 
I also want to acknowledge what Ms B has said about Co-op having to complete some 
verification checks on her friend before the transfer was made. I understand that Ms B may 
be referring to the Confirmation of Payee system that is now broadly in place across the 
banking sector. But this system does not allow banks to carry out checks on people their 
customers are attempting to make transfers to  this isnt possible. This system simply 
checks that the account the customer is wishing to transfer funds to is in the name of the 
person they intend to make the transfer to. And in this case, the funds were transferred to an 
account in her friends name, as she had requested. So even if this system had been in 
place at the time, it wouldnt have provided Co-op with Ms B with any new information that 
mightve prevented the transfer from taking place. 
Additional compensation 
Ive also considered whether Co-op should pay Ms B further compensation, over and above 
the £100 it has already offered, for the way this complaint was handled from the outset and 
taking into consideration that Ms B has said she was provided with incorrect information by 
Co-op on at least two separate occasions. In doing so, Ive taken into account that much of 
the distress and inconvenience Ms B has experienced was ultimately the result of the 
actions of her friend, not Co-op. I also have to bear in mind that its not unusual to 
experience a certain level of frustration and annoyance when dealing with financial 
businesses during the course of a complaint. 
In this case, I recognise that Ms B was initially provided with incorrect information and this 
ultimately caused a delay in the receiving bank being contacted about the possible recovery 
of Ms Bs funds. And whilst I recognise this error was made, I dont think it has had a 
material impact on the outcome of this complaint. I say this because the receiving bank has 
told Co-op that all of Ms Bs funds were removed from their customers account within two 
days of the transfer being made. And so even if Ms B had been given the correct information 
when she initially informed Co-op of what had happened, this wouldnt have resulted in the 
return of her funds, they had already gone. And so, overall, Im satisfied that Co-ops offer of 
£100 is fair and reasonable given all of the circumstances. 
Finally, I want to say how sorry I am to hear about the circumstances Ms B has found herself 
in and the ongoing impact this has had on her both emotionally and financially. Its clear she 
has been treated badly by someone she felt she could trust. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that Co-op should be liable for her losses  the fault here 
lies with the actions of her friend. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about The Co-operative  Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman