DRN-3334584
The complaint
The estate of Ms S (the estate) complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money
wont allow them to close Ms S matured Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) and keep the
remaining fixed term ISAs until maturity.
What happened
Ms S had four fixed rate ISAs with Virgin when she passed away. When the estate
attempted to bring her affairs in order, they were informed by a third party building society
that a small ISA she had with them could remain open for up to three years. While the estate
didnt think this was relevant to that particular ISA due to the balance, they wanted to be able
to keep Ms S ISAs with Virgin open until maturity, due to the interest they were earning and
then close the individual accounts down once they matured.
The estate discussed this with Virgin. But Virgin explained to the estate that their policy was
to close all of the accounts when probate had been granted. The estate looked online at Her
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) website and saw the rules regarding ISAs after
someone has passed away. The estate said that Virgin seemed to be operating under a
different set of rules.
The estate complained to Virgin, as once the ISAs had reached the maturity date, they
would be transferred to an account with a lower interest rate. Virgin did not uphold their
complaint. They said that from 6 April 2018, HMRC rules state following the death of an ISA
account holder, the account could retain its tax free status for three years (from the actual
date of death).
Virgin explained that their policy is that the accounts would need to be closed as soon as the
administration of the estate is complete. They said whilst they do follow rules set by HMRC,
as a company they are permitted to have their own policies and procedures in place.
The estate brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the
complaint. She said that Virgin hadnt made an error by advising all of the accounts would
need to be closed when the grant of probate is received, as Virgin are entitled to close all the
accounts once they receive the grant of probate. So she couldnt ask them to release the
funds from the accounts that have matured and leave the other accounts open until maturity.
The estate asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They said the main point
they would like to emphasise is the way Virgin seem to be able to decide that something is
their policy rather than terms and conditions. It would appear that for their administrative
convenience they can decide to operate different accounts with different criteria as they
chose. They said each of these accounts were opened under different terms and conditions
for that account and they are therefore separate accounts and separate contracts. They said
Virgins policy to merge the accounts together for the purpose of closing the accounts seems
to be a fundamental condition of how the accounts are operated and should be included in
the terms and conditions.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I wish to pass my condolences to the estate. But I must be clear to the estate,
that it is not within the remit of this service to tell a business what they should include in their
terms and conditions  this would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct
Authority, so they may wish to contact the regulator if they have concerns about this. What I
will be concentrating on here though is whether Virgin treated the estate fairly in how they
have applied their bereavement process.
Ive had a look at what the HMRCs website says regarding ISAs. Ill not repeat what the
website displays here as its well known by both parties. But I cant say Im persuaded that
Virgin have acted outside of these rules. I say this as all of the four ISAs are still open
despite Ms S passing away in October 2020. So they havent been closed within three years
and one day of Ms S passing away (in the absence of the executor closing the accounts or
the administration of the estate being completed).
Ive noted the strength of feeling that the estate has regarding Virgins interpretation of these
rules and that all financial institutions should follow the same guidance. But as a business, it
is up to Virgin to decide how they operate their policies and procedures. Im not persuaded
that they have incorrectly interpreted the HMRC rules regarding ISAs. When someone dies,
their policy is to request a Grant of Probate - this is nothing to do with their products.
So while I understand that the estate wants to get the most interest they can on the
accounts, this isnt how Virgin operate. Their policies and processes sometimes can be
commercially sensitive, so this is why they may sometimes not be written into the terms and
conditions. And also, as the estate has pointed out, this is not a common situation, so I
wouldnt expect a business to be able to account for every single scenario which is possible
in their terms and conditions.
So although the estate has said that each of the ISA accounts have their own sets of terms
and conditions, the administration of an estate would look at the assets on a collective basis
generally, instead of individual assets that an individual would hold. Virgin choose to close all
of the accounts of a deceased person when they are provided with the relevant documents
as opposed to allowing the estate to decide which accounts can be closed down and which
stay open.
Im persuaded this is reasonable. I say this as Ive had a look on Virgins website and read
the contents of Virgins bereavement guide (which Ive asked our investigator to forward this
to the estate before Ive issued this decision). Page 3 of the document explains what Virgin
need, in order to release funds from a sole account  which all of the ISAs are. The
document goes on to state what they need if the total balances are over a certain amount
(eg under £1,000, £1,000-£34,999.99, £35,000+). So I do think this document indicates that
they would be looking at all of the accounts combined as opposed to being able to look at
closing accounts individually.
Virgins bereavement guide also explains on page 3, that for sole accounts held by the
deceased, we will confirm all of the information provided in a letter and let you know if we
need anything else. How we proceed depends on a number of things including the total
balances held by the deceased with us, so this letter will confirm how much the late account
holder held with us and what this means.This is what happened here. Virgin sent the estate a letter which included what the estate
would need to do to close the accounts. This stated that if the accounts were not closed
before the maturity date, they would become variable rate accounts paying a lower rate of
interest.
The letter also has a section, tax status. Im satisfied that this section is aligned with
HMRCs website as it shows the three points which the HMRCs site shows. So Im satisfied
that Virgin are acting within HMRCs rules here and as the HMRC rules and Virgins terms
and conditions/website/bereavement guide/key product information dont say that a company
must be able to close the accounts of a person who has passed away on an individual basis,
then I cant say that Virgin have treated the estate unreasonably here or acted outside of
their policies, therefore Im unable to ask Virgin to close the matured ISAs and leave the
fixed ISAs open until these mature. So it follows that I dont intend to ask Virgin to do
anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Virgin said they had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. The 
estate replied and made a number of points. In summary, they said while they didnt agree 
with my provisional decision, they understood why I have made it. The estate appreciated 
that the policy intent of the legislation and the interpretation of the operational flexibilities are 
outside of my remit and the estate can take these issues forward with the FCA and HMRC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what the estate have said regarding the policy intent of the legislation and 
the interpretation of the operational flexibilities. I can confirm to the estate that Ive read 
everything theyve said about this and Virgins interpretation of the legislation and I agree 
that the things they would like me to be able to do as a result of the complaint are outside of 
this services remit, as I explained in my provisional decision. As the estate has mentioned, 
they can continue to take these issues forward with the FCA and HMRC. 
In summary, the estates response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know the estate will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman