DRN-1384572
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the cancellation invoices charged by Allay Claims Ltd (Allay). 
What happened
In 30 June 2019 Allay received a signed letter of authority (LOA) via an online application, 
allowing it to make payment protection insurance (PPI) complaints to lender L on behalf of 
Mr D. Mr D says he doesnt recall signing any documents for Allay. 
Allay says it made a PPI information request (PIR) to lender L to check if Mr D had been sold 
PPI. Allay has provided a copy of an email from lender L saying For PIRs received after 
29th June 2019, where PPI is found in the PIR process we will proactively convert these into 
complaints. Allay says that lender L identified four accounts with PPI, and that Mr D was 
notified of this. 
Mr D says he received a call from Allay on 4 September saying that Lender L had confirmed 
that [he has] a PPI claim. Mr D told Allay that he hadnt asked it to act for him, and told Allay 
to stop working on his claims. Allay said that Mr D would be invoiced for the work completed. 
Allay sent Mr D four cancellation invoices for £70 each, representing the four accounts 
identified with PPI. The invoice breakdown showed Allay had charged £60 for Questionnaire 
completed/ complaint submitted and £10 for Automated communication to client for each 
invoice.
Mr D complained to Allay about the cancellation costs of £280 as he didnt think hed 
instructed it to act for him on any PPI claims. In its response to Mr Ds complaint Allay said 
we contacted you for each account on 15/08/2019 to confirm that the complaint had been 
submitted to the lender, from this point you had 14 days to contact Allay to cancel the claims 
if you did not wish to go ahead. Allay also said Mr D was sent a text when it received the 
signed LOA. Allay didnt offer any compensation in resolution of Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D contacted this service to complain about the service received from Allay. He said Allay 
had acted without his authority when making the claims to lender L, and unfairly by charging 
him cancellation invoices. The investigator found that it was likely Mr D had provided 
authority to Allay to act for him. But he didnt think that Allay had acted fairly by charging 
cancellation fees. The investigator said that Allay hadnt done anything on Mr Ds claim 
between him signing the LOA and Mr D cancelling the claim, so the cancellation invoices 
should be waived in full, and Allay should cancel any agreement with Mr D at no cost to him. 
Mr D agreed with this as a resolution to his complaint. Allay was asked to provide additional 
evidence before the case gets considered by an ombudsman. To date, no response has 
been provided. So this decision has made been using the evidence provided to date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr D. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators outcome, although my reasons are slightly different to what the 
investigator found. 
Mr D strongly disputes providing his signature on the LOA Allay has relied on. He says he 
recalls partially completing an online form but stopped when he realised the fees Allay would 
charge. He says Allay contacted him to complete the rest of the online form but he didnt go 
ahead. Allay says that Mr D provided details through an online form, and this was used to 
make the claim to lender L. 
Given the strong disagreement from Mr D about the signature not matching his own, Id 
expect Allay to have provided screenshots of what Mr D wouldve seen, and an explanation 
for how Mr Ds signature was provided (i.e. finger scan, automated tool etc). I cant see that 
Allay has provided this. So I dont think it would be fair for me to say that the evidence 
supports Allays position that it acted with Mr Ds authority. Whilst there isnt enough 
evidence to say that Mr D instructed Allay, the compensation Im directing puts Mr D back 
into the position he wouldve likely been in had he not instructed it. So I dont think the 
question of whether Mr D provided authority or not, impacts on the outcome. 
Allay has provided a copy of an email from lender L confirming that For PIRs received after 
29th June 2019, where PPI is found in the PIR process we will proactively convert these into 
complaints. I would expect Allay to have told Mr D that this is how lender L was processing 
claims, and what this would mean for Mr D and his right to cancel the agreement. I cant see 
that it did this at any point during the claims process. This information was provided only to 
this service after Mr D raised his complaint.
The case notes provided by Allay show that on 15 August Mr D was sent an email. But 
theres no evidence of what was explained in this email. Because of this, and what Mr D has 
explained about Allays lack of communication with him, I dont think Allay did enough to 
confirm that it was acting for Mr D on his claims against lender L, and that if Mr D didnt want 
Allay to act for him, hed have to cancel in 14 days to avoid being charged any costs. 
In the invoice breakdown provided by Allay it refers to £60 for Questionnaire completed/ 
complaint submitted and £10 for Automated communication to client. The final response 
letter says Mr D was sent a text message after his LOA was received by Allay. But Allay has 
also said Mr D was sent an email on 15 August. Given the £10 cost referred to in the invoice, 
theres some doubt as to whether Allay did communicate with Mr D on two occasions, or 
one. This also leads me to question what communications (if any) were made; Ive seen no 
evidence of any texts or emails being sent, or what was explained in these communications. 
Based on the evidence provided even if I was to accept that Mr D provided authority to Allay 
in June 2019, I dont think Allay did enough to highlight to Mr D that: lender L had found PPI 
on four accounts; Allay would be representing him in these claims; and that Mr D had 14 
days to cancel to avoid being charged cancellation costs. Because of this, I think its fair for 
Mr D to be put back into the position he wouldve been in had he cancelled the claims within 
the cooling off period. On balance it seems likely this is what Mr D wouldve done if Allay had 
provided clear updates on its arrangement with lender L, and Mr Ds right to cancel.  
As the relationship between Mr D and Allay has broken down I think its fair that any 
agreement with Allay is terminated at no cost to Mr D, so its no longer representing him on 
any PPI claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.Allay Claims Ltd should waive the outstanding cancellation invoices for the claims against 
lender L, and terminate any agreements it has with Mr D at no cost to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman