DRN-3033195
The complaint
Ms B has complained about John Clarke (Aberdeen) Ltd (JCA), an insurance broker, as she 
feels it mis-sold her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance, leading her to believe it 
was a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B collected a new car from a garage on 18 September 2020. During the collection 
process she spoke to the broker working within the garage. Ms B has explained the process 
was quite unusual, taking place as it did in line with pandemic restrictions, and with no paper 
documents being produced. Ms B electronically signed for a GAP policy which cost her 
£39.00 a month for ten months, but gave her three years of cover. Ms B came away with her 
new car thinking that motor insurance had just been arranged. She cancelled her existing 
policy (which had covered her old car, a car of the same make as her new one, the 
insurance for which had been through the makes branded policy). On 8 October 2020 Ms B 
was stopped by the police and charged with driving without insurance. She was adamant 
she did have cover, but then found out that the policy she had was for GAP insurance. Ms B 
was fined £300 and received points on her licence.
When Ms B contacted JCA it cancelled the GAP cover and refunded her premium. But JCA 
didnt think it had misled Ms B during the GAP sale. It said that, in any event, it couldnt, 
even by talking to the car makes branded insurance provider, arrange backdated cover. And 
it didnt think it was liable for the increase Ms B would now likely see on her motor insurance 
premiums due to the penalty points. But it said, as a gesture of goodwill, to try and assist 
Ms B, it would pay her £300, being the amount she was fined. 
Ms B remained unhappy. She noted that, as part of the sale of her car, she should have 
been offered five-days complimentary insurance cover for it. She said, if she had, she 
wouldnt have been confused about the GAP cover provided. 
Our investigator, considering Ms Bs complaint, asked JCA for more details. It explained that 
during the sale of cars the option of complimentary cover can be identified to prospective 
buyers  but as Ms B was already covered with the car makes branded provider, all shed 
have had to do was change the car details with it, which was a simple process. But, in any 
event, as a broker, it doesnt give advice about what cover, in general, the buyer may need, 
and it doesnt sell motor insurance policies at all  even the complimentary cover is arranged 
directly between the car buyer and the insurance provider.
Our investigator accepted that Ms B had come away from the car purchase thinking that she 
had motor insurance arranged for her new car. But he didnt think that misunderstanding had 
been caused by any failure of JCA. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B remained 
unhappy and the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any upset this causes Ms B, Im not upholding her complaint. In short, whilst 
I understand she believes JCA wasn't clear with her  Im not persuaded it misled her.
JCA act as brokers within the car garage, selling car related insurance products and 
insurance backed warranties. It doesnt act in an advisory capacity in respect of insurance as 
a whole and isnt a general broker. Their role is also different and distinct from the car 
garage which sells the cars. The garage isnt responsible for the insurance arrangements 
and the broker isnt responsible for the sale of the car. So Im not persuaded that JCA had 
any duty to Ms B to advise her about motor insurance or that it should have talked to her 
about the option of any complimentary cover.
I appreciate that Ms B, and from what she says JCAs representative too, was uncomfortable 
completing the insurance application in a socially distanced and paper-free manner. But Ive 
seen the electronic documents that were produced and they clearly refer to GAP insurance. 
They set out the key points of the cover and clearly clarify that this is not a motor policy. And 
Ms B signed the documents indicating she understood what she was agreeing to. As the 
application took place face-to-face, I cant know what was said by JCAs representative  but 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Ms B wasnt given an opportunity to read the 
documents she was signing. And Im mindful she chose to sign them, agreeing shed read 
and understood their content.
I understand that the electronic documents and the policy paperwork they created, were 
then uploaded to a platform Ms B was to have access to through an app. So Ms B couldve 
checked the policy after leaving the garage. And I know, from what Ms B has said, that shes 
been driving for many years. So I think shed understand her obligation as a driver to make 
sure a valid and correct motor insurance certificate is in place before driving. Im aware that 
Ms B has said that when she checked the app on 8 October 2020, it was unavailable to her. 
But she also says that she hadnt attempted to check her details on the app before that date. 
By then shed been driving her new car for twenty days. It isnt clear if the app was ever 
working or accessible for Ms B. If it never was then, in theory, Ms B wasnt given a durable 
copy of her policy paperwork as JCA is bound to do. But if that was a failing of JCA then 
I cant say it caused the problem Ms B encountered. Thats because she hadnt tried to 
access the app or check her documents at any time after the car was purchase but before 
the police stopped her for driving without insurance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against John Clarke (Aberdeen) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman