DRN-4086361
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc charged him interest on his credit card even 
though hed paid it off in full.
What happened
Mr D says he cleared the balance of his credit card before its due date but was subsequently 
charged a further £195.89 in interest. He says Sainsburys explained it was legacy interest 
but offered him £25 compensation for not making this clear to him. Mr D says this caused 
him considerable stress and depression, but he paid the interest even though he didnt agree 
with it. He says he wants the money refunded, along with an apology and compensation.
Sainsburys explained that interest is charged over two consecutive statements. It said that 
the balance of Mr Ds statement dated 18 May 2022 wasnt paid in full and, although the 
statement dated 18 June 2022 was paid in full, interest had accrued from 18 June 2022 until 
12 July 2022, when Mr D cleared the balance. However, it accepted it gave Mr D incorrect 
information about further interest charges and offered him £25 compensation.
Our investigator was satisfied that the interest had been correctly applied and found that the 
compensation offered for the incorrect information was fair and reasonable.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that Sainsburys has never explained why he was 
charged interest when hed repaid the card in full. He adds that it must accept it did 
something wrong as it offered him compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds May statement had a closing balance of £11,032.32, towards which he paid £280.55 
on 6 June 2022. Sainsburys then charged interest on this outstanding balance up to 17 
June 2022 of £241.48. This balance continued to accrue interest from 18 June 2022, until 
Mr D cleared the statement balance on 13 July 2022. It is this accrued interest that was 
subsequently added to Mr Ds account on 18 July 2022 as it was not included in the 
statement balance Mr D repaid.
I have looked at the accounts terms and conditions and Im satisfied that the interest was 
correctly applied. So, I dont find Sainsburys did anything wrong in charging the interest in 
the way that it did.
That said, I have also listened to the calls Mr D had with the customer adviser, and, 
subsequently, the complaints team. Mr D was told the charge was for trailing interest, but I 
dont consider this was adequately explained to him. He was also told, incorrectly, to expect 
further interest charges, and I can understand why this was unacceptable to Mr D, especially 
given hed taken out a loan to make the large repayment.
However, Sainsburys has accepted it gave Mr D incorrect information during this call and 
has offered him £25 compensation for this. In all the circumstances, I find this offer to be fair 
and reasonable and I dont consider Sainsburys needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr D £25 as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman