DRN-4251077
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) poor service following a claim under 
his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr N contacted Aviva when a hot water pipe burst at his home. Mr N explained that he found 
it difficult to get through to Aviva on the phone lines and eventually had to get a local 
engineer to come to his home and carry out a temporary repair. The engineer cut off the pipe 
and put blanking ends to prevent further water damage. Mr N had to pay £180 for this. 
Mr N said that following this, he contacted Aviva several times to get an engineer to attend to 
deal with the emergency. He said that appointments were made and cancelled at short 
notice. And that there had been around five appointments made, to no avail. He and a 
neighbour then carried out the repair themselves, given the difficulty he experienced in trying 
to get an engineer from Aviva. 
Mr N complained to Aviva, not least because of the failed appointments, but also because he 
wanted reimbursement of the emergency engineer costs that he had to pay. And he 
complained about the cost of the policy that he had with Aviva, questioning why he paid 
significantly more for his policy than a new customer (he had been a customer for several 
years). 
In its final response, Aviva accepted that there had been service issues. But said that there 
had been two failed appointments. It agreed that Mr N had experienced difficulties in 
contacting them, due to the busy period of the year and availability issues. It offered and 
paid £115 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It also reimbursed (with interest) 
the £180 that Mr N paid for the emergency contractor he used. 
Mr N was given his referral rights and as he remained unhappy with the outcome, he 
referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld. 
Essentially, he recommended that Aviva increase its offer of compensation by a further £85 
(making a total of £200), as he said that it had failed to compensate for the cancelled 
appointments. He said that there were three appointments that didnt go ahead not five, and 
that Aviva was responsible for two of those appointments. He said that Mr N couldve found 
an alternative provider if he wasnt happy with the increased policy premium. Finally, he 
accepted that Aviva had reimbursed Mr Ns engineers cost, with interest. 
Both Mr N and Aviva didnt agree with the view. 
Aviva said that it had taken into account the cancelled appointments, the phone lines being 
busy, and that an incorrect engineer had been booked for one of the appointments. As well 
as not getting back to Mr N, when it should have. It paid Mr Ns engineers costs of £180 plus 
the interest. And for all the failings, it paid £115 compensation, which it thought was fair. 
Mr N said that the compensation recommended by our investigator, vindicates Avivas 
attitude towards its customers and doesnt force them to change its service handling 
procedures. Instead, it reinforced the bad practices and enabled them to offer poor service at 
peak demand (during winter). Aviva broke the contract by cancelling several appointments at 
short notice, with minimal contact and no apology. He accepted that Aviva had reimbursed 
him the cost of the emergency engineer. But he also said that Aviva dont advertise to 
customers that they will experience poor service, as he had done. 
So, both parties asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 20 June 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 18 
July 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr N, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, and I think that the main issue of this 
complaint, is whether the compensation offered and paid for by Aviva is fair. In order to 
assess this, Ive had a look at the timeline of events, that led to Mr N complaining to Aviva 
for the poor service that he experienced. Ive also considered Mr Ns complaint regarding the 
policys premium. 
The timeline of events is as follows: 
16 December 2022  Mr N contacts Aviva to make a claim. But as the phonelines were too 
busy, he had to make the appointment online. 
19 December 2022  Mr N complains to Aviva via text, given that he was unable to get 
through to them. And that he had to instruct an independent engineer to carry out a 
temporary repair.  
21 December 2022  Mr N was given the earliest appointment available. But a boiler 
engineer had been booked, which was an error.  Mr N said that he was informed by Aviva 
that another appointment was rescheduled for the next day 22 December 2022.
22 December 2022  Mr N said that this appointment was cancelled. Aviva said that there 
was no appointment scheduled for this day and the next appointment given was on 2 
January 2023.
2 January 2023, Mr N said that this appointment (which fell on a bank holiday) was cancelled 
by Aviva. And a subsequent appointment was cancelled by Mr N, as he told Aviva that he 
had repaired the pipe.  Aviva said that there was no appointment scheduled for 22 December 2022, as the next 
appointment given was on 2 January 2023. Mr N hasnt provided me with any corroborating 
evidence that supports that he was given an appointment on that day. In the absence of this, 
Im persuaded that there hadnt been an additional appointment given on 22 December. So, 
in essence there were two days Aviva cancelled appointments at short notice (21 December 
2022 and 2 January 2023).
In addition to the cancelled appointments, Mr N explains that he had to chase Aviva for 
updates, received minimal contact or response from them and ultimately had to take steps to 
repair the pipe himself. Aviva has accepted that the standard of service fell well below what it 
wouldve liked. And I agree. It seems that poor staffing and the time of the year (winter) 
played a role, and I can understand the frustration that Mr N felt. But Im satisfied that Aviva 
recognised this error and offered and paid Mr N £115 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. It also reimbursed Mr N £180 plus interest, for the cost of the independent 
engineer, which I think is fair. 
When assessing compensation, we look at the impact on the consumer as a result of the 
errors made by the business. Mr N hasnt provided me with any evidence to support the 
actual impact of Avivas errors on him, such as whether he experienced, loss of heating, total 
loss of water. And possibly, the effect on his health or well-being. 
We assess the impact caused on a fair and reasonable basis. Given that Im satisfied that Mr 
N had difficulties in contacting Aviva, Aviva failed on occasions to respond to him, Mr N had 
to instruct his own engineer to make a temporary repair, as well as the cancelled 
appointments. I think that the impact on Mr N was more than just minimal, with more than 
the levels of frustration. 
So, when applying our guidelines, Im satisfied that there were repeated errors that required 
a reasonable effort to sort out. But I also take into account that there were two cancelled 
appointment and I do think that a monetary award is warranted. However, the £115 
compensation offered and paid for, comes within our guidelines. Consequently, I think Aviva 
was fair in its offer and I dont at this stage, intend to increase this further. If Mr N can 
provide further evidence to show the impact on him, I will of course consider this. 
Turning to Mr Ns complaint regarding the premium he paid over the years. Mr N explained 
that he held the policy for several years and in the last four years, he hadnt had course to 
make a claim. He also said that when he did make a claim, he was faced with poor service. 
And for the various incidents of poor service, he wished that all his premiums be reimbursed, 
not least as he discovered that there were significant discounts for newer customers. 
I asked Aviva to explain this further. It said that it offered introductory offers when customers 
joined. Those discounts were not offered to existing customers, simply because they had 
already had the benefit of those offers. 
It went on to explain that Mr Ns account was checked, and he had benefitted from those 
discounts. I think this is a reasonable explanation. And although Mr N would like his 
premiums refunded, I dont think this is fair, given that he had the benefit of the policy  even 
though he didnt use it often.  And he had the benefit of the introductory discounts, when he 
was a new customer.
Further, each year at renewal, Mr N wouldve been provided with a renewal notice which is a 
new contract. He couldve chosen to shop around for a new provider, if he felt that the policy 
no longer met his needs, or that the premiums had become too high. Accordingly, I cant 
agree that Aviva ought to refund Mr N his premiums. Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed and deeply 
unimpressed Mr N was with Aviva, currently, I dont think that the level of compensation 
should increase past the £115 paid. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to reimburse 
any of Mr Ns premiums. And Im satisfied that Aviva reimbursed Mr Ns engineer costs. 
Accordingly, I wont be able to reasonably ask Aviva, at this stage, to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr N responded as follows:
Mr N sent me a few images of messages that he received from Aviva, some of which 
detailed bookings, as well as cancellations of appointments. I note that one of the 
messages indicated that there was a booking made from 22 December 2022. 
Mr N reiterated that there had been five cancelled appointments and that Aviva only 
acknowledged two. He accepted that he had cancelled one of those appointments.
Mr N said that Aviva had breached the contract. And that he was without hot water 
for around 20 days, during the winter.
Mr N said that he had been previously happy with his policy with Aviva, but this event 
indicated to him that the policy wasnt fit for purpose. Especially as Aviva were not 
able to provide an engineer when he needed one most.
He said that the impact on him and his family was the time in which they had to wait 
for the engineers to attend. Or, due to the cancellations, not attend. 
Finally, Mr N reiterated his complaint regarding the premiums that he was paying.
I have carefully considered Mr Ns comments and they havent changed my findings. In the 
provisional decision, I accepted that the level of service that Aviva provided regarding the 
cancellation of appointments at short notice was poor. Aviva also accepted that there were 
service issues, and the level of service was poor. It offered and paid £115 compensation, for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
I considered the amount of compensation as fair, having applied our guidelines on 
compensation. I thought that the frustrations that Mr N experienced were justified and that 
they were more than just minimal and more than the levels of frustration. So, I agreed that 
the £115 was fair. 
I note that Mr N said that there had been another appointment on 22 December 2022. Aviva 
said that it had no record of this appointment, But Mr N has provided a screenshot of a 
message from Aviva in which it cancels the appointment of 21 December and rebooks it for 
the following day. Im satisfied that there was some evidence of another appointment, 
making a total of three cancelled appointments. Despite this, I cant agree that the 
compensation ought to be increased. I will explain why. 
I asked Mr N to provide me with further details of the impact that this event had on him. I 
understand that he had to wait for engineers to attend for appointments that ultimately failed. 
But I must say, any home emergency is going to involve a homeowner in some 
inconvenience including, almost inevitably, waiting for an engineer to come in and put things 
right. However, having looked at the times when Aviva notified Mr N that the appointments 
would be cancelled, I note that they were cancelled quite early on. For instance, one of the 
morning appointments was cancelled promptly at just after 05.00 am. So, I do think that the 
waiting around for an engineer would have been greatly reduced. Of course, the frustration at having to wait for the engineer cannot be minimised. But Im satisfied that Aviva 
recognised this and paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr N said that he was without hot water for a period of around 20 days, due to Aviva failing 
to send an engineer. He said that there was a leak at his home that occurred on 16 
December 2022, and he made a claim. He described the difficulty in contacting Aviva and 
said that he resorted to using an independent engineer to carry out a temporary repair on 19 
December 2022, so three days after the leak. 
I havent been provided with evidence prior to the issue of my provisional decision, that Mr N 
was without hot water for 20 days. Further, I would have expected that a temporary repair is 
likely to have resolved any issues (albeit on a temporary basis). And I wouldve expected 
that as the hot water pipe was temporarily repaired that hot water would be restored. 
Nonetheless, Im satisfied that Aviva paid for the costs of the independent engineer who 
carried out the repair, which I think is fair. 
Mr N said that the policy wasnt fit for purpose and that Aviva had breached the contract. I 
have had a look at the policy terms and conditions and in particular Avivas obligations under 
the policy, when it agrees to send an engineer. Under the appointments sections it states:
Your Appointment: When your claim requires us to visit your property, we will attend within a 
reasonable timescale. If something beyond our control makes that impossible to keep to  
well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr N has provided screenshots of the communication that he had with Aviva. The 
communication related to the booking and cancellation of the appointments (among other 
things). 
Aviva explained that the time of year (winter) was a busy period and there were staffing 
issues. Our service is unable to direct a business on how it operates. But Aviva did notify Mr 
N of appointments (which appeared to be within a reasonable timescale usually a day or 
two) and did notify Mr N of the cancellation and offered another time when it could visit.  As it 
complied with the policy terms and conditions, I cant agree that it breached those terms. 
I do accept that the late cancellations highlighted poor service and Im satisfied that Aviva 
has recognised this poor service. 
Turning to Mr Ns complaint regarding the premium he paid over the years. Mr N explained 
that he held the policy for several years and in the last four years, he hadnt had course to 
make a claim. He also said that when he did make a claim, he was faced with poor service. 
And for the various incidents of poor service, he wished that all his premiums be reimbursed, 
not least as he discovered that there were significant discounts for newer customers. 
As mentioned in the provisional decision Aviva gave an explanation as to why existing 
customers werent offered discounts as newer customers were. I dont propose to outline this 
again. Save to comment that Aviva explained that Mr N was given the benefit of the 
discounts. Further having reviewed the policy documents Aviva explained to Mr N that 
although he was renewing his policy with them for another year, it recommended that he 
review his policy to see if he was able to get cover elsewhere, at a better price, if he 
shopped around:
We recommend you review your cover. As you have been with us a number of years you 
may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around.So, I think that Mr N couldve shopped around for a new provider, if he felt that the policy no 
longer met his needs or that the premiums had become too high. Accordingly, Im unable to 
agree that Mr Ns premiums should be refunded. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed and deeply 
unimpressed Mr N was with Aviva, I dont think that the level of compensation should 
increase past the £115 paid. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to reimburse any of 
Mr Ns premiums. And Im satisfied that Aviva reimbursed Mr Ns engineer costs. 
Accordingly, I wont be able to reasonably ask Aviva, at this stage, to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman