DRN-3083638
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount that hes been charged by Arval UK Limited for damage to 
a car that he returned at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire agreement with Arval that he electronically 
signed in July 2018. The car was collected from him in July 2021 when the agreement ended 
and it was inspected. The collection report identified damage to the car for which Mr D was 
charged £220. He complained to Arval about the charges and said that hed returned the car 
with lower mileage than was permitted under the agreement. 
It said that the charges had been reassessed and the car had been deemed to have damage 
that fell outside of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines so the 
charges remained payable. It also said that the low mileage had been taken into account but 
it couldnt be offset again damage charges. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service  and he also complained about the way that the car had been 
collected from him.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
it was fair and reasonable for the collection agent to take the car to another street where it 
was safer for it be inspected. She was satisfied that the damage to the front and rear 
bumpers was more than fair wear and tear so was chargeable  but she didnt consider that 
the dent to the door was more than 15mm so recommended that Arval should remove the 
£60 charge for that damage. She considered that the chargeable damage would most likely 
have occurred during the time that Mr D had the car rather than when the collection agent 
moved it 300 metres. She said Mr D had the option to use the full mileage allowance and 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Arval to reduce the damage charges because 
he didnt use his full mileage allowance.
Mr D hasnt responded to our investigators recommendations. Arval says that its clear that 
the dent in the door is over 1.5cm in size so should remain chargeable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
the hire agreement says: At the end of the Contract Term (or on early termination of 
this Agreement or late return of the Vehicle) the Hirer will make the Vehicle available 
for collection. A representative on behalf of ARVAL will complete an initial report on 
the mechanical and bodywork condition of the Vehicle including its milometer 
reading. The Hirer or its representative will sign a copy of that report upon agreement 
of its content ARVAL shall invoice the Hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not 
carried out) to a Vehicle returned to ARVAL that is subject to damage which, in 
accordance with the BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide for the Contract Hire Industry, 
would constitute unfair wear and tear and/or for any diminution of the value of the 
Vehicle resulting from a previous repair to the Vehicle. All invoices for unfair wear 
and tear charges must be paid by the Hirer in accordance with clause 3 of this 
agreement;
the car was collected from Mr D when the agreement ended and the collection agent 
says that it was transported to another street where it was safer for it be inspected  
which was about 300 metres away;
the collection report records the cars mileage as 12,278 and includes photos of the 
damage to the car including the three areas of damage for which Mr D has been 
charged;
Im not persuaded that the collection agent acted incorrectly when it moved the car to 
a safer location for it to be inspected and Im not persuaded that its likely that the 
damage to the car was caused by the collection agent when the car was being 
moved  I consider it to be more likely than not that the damage to the car was 
caused during the 12,278 miles that it was driven before it was collected from Mr D;
I consider that the damage to the bumpers is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear when assessed in accordance with the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines on fair wear and tear and that its 
fair and reasonable for Arval to charge Mr D for that damage;
those guidelines say: Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Chips 
within dents are not acceptable. Dents on the roof or on the swag line of any panel 
are not acceptable;
I dont consider it to be clear from the photos that Arval has provided that the dent in 
the door is more than that 15mm in size and Im not persuaded that its provided 
enough evidence to show that the dent is more than would reasonably be considered 
to be fair wear and tear when assessed in accordance with those guidelines  so I 
find that its not fair or reasonable for Arval to charge Mr D £60 for that damage;
Mr D had agreed to make an advance payment of £1,147.54 and then 35 monthly 
rentals of £191.26 for the car to be supplied to him and the contract mileage was 
24,000 in excess of which excess mileage charges would be paid;
theres no provision in the agreement for any payments to be refunded to Mr D if he 
drove the car for less than the contract mileage and I dont consider that it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Arval to reduce the 
amount that its charged him for the damage to the car because he drove it for less 
than the contract mileage; and 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Arval to reduce the amount that its 
charged Mr D for damage to the car by the £60 that its charged him for the dent in 
the door  but I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to reduce or remove the other charges, to pay him any compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Arval to remove the charge that its made to 
Mr D of £60 for the dent to the cars door.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I order Arval UK Limited to reduce 
the amount that its charged him for damage to the car by £60 to £160.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman