DRN-3707554
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE is pursuing her for amounts it paid out under a 
rent deposit guarantee policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Great Lakes is the underwriter of a rent deposit guarantee policy Miss M took out. After she 
left the property it relates to the landlord made a claim for cleaning, damage and rent arrears 
totalling £1380. Great Lakes contacted Miss M in February 2021 to ask for her comments 
but didnt receive a response. It referred the matter to a dispute resolution service who made 
an award to the landlord of £785. Great Lakes paid this and sought to recover that amount 
from Miss M. 
Miss M said she hadnt received the February email so hadnt been aware of the claim. She 
provided video evidence showing the condition of the property when she left it. Great Lakes 
said as the dispute resolution service had now reached its decision it was unable to consider 
further evidence. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had taken reasonable steps to contact Miss M about 
the claim; it sent an email to the correct address. It appeared Miss M didnt receive that 
because she was having difficulties with her phone but that wasnt something Great Lakes 
was responsible for. And she thought Great Lakes acted reasonably in referring matters to 
the dispute resolution service and paying the amount it decided was due. 
However, she thought when Miss M provided further information Great Lakes should have 
considered that and referred it back to the dispute resolution service for review. She said it 
should now do that and pay Miss M £50 to recognise the impact on her of not doing that 
earlier. Great Lakes didnt agree. It said the resolution service wouldnt consider evidence 
provided after the adjudication process had finished unless there were exceptional 
circumstances or a potential error of fact or law. It didnt believe that was the case here. 
I let both sides know my initial thoughts on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Although it didnt appear Miss M had received the February email that was because of a 
problem with her phone rather than because of a failing by Great Lakes. And while it 
could arguably have paid out the claim without referring the matter to the dispute 
resolution service, doing so hadnt disadvantaged her. 
However, I didnt think it would be right to pursue a tenant for an outstanding debt if 
theyd clearly evidenced they werent liable for it (even if that evidence had been 
provided after the resolution service reached its decision). 
In this case the video Miss M provided didnt show obvious issues with the condition of 
the property. But the more detailed photographs which formed part of the check-out 
report did show a number of problems including mould. The dispute resolution service 
based its decision on that report. As it didnt appear the evidence Miss M had now 
provided would obviously impact the outcome of the claim I didnt think further action 
needed to be taken in relation to this.
But I did think Great Lakes should have considered this information earlier and explained 
to Miss M why it didnt make a difference. I thought it should pay Miss M £50 to 
recognise the impact on her of not doing that.
Great Lakes agreed to do that. Miss M didnt agree. She said the information shed provided 
showed the evidence Great Lakes had relied on was inaccurate. And she asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the policy Great Lakes is required to contact the tenant after a claim has 
been made to discuss settlement of the claim. You are required to either accept the claim 
and pay the Beneficiary or dispute the claim. If you dispute the claim We will refer it to our 
Expert Evaluation Partner to adjudicate. 
It goes on to explain:
If Our Expert Evaluation Partner adjudicates in the Beneficiary's favour and You are found 
liable for Financial loss/Damage, We will pay the Beneficiary the amount determined to be 
due to You by Our Expert Evaluation Partner on Your behalf and We will seek to recover this 
payment from You and/or any Guarantor.
In this case after the claim was made Great Lakes did try and contact Miss M in line with the 
policy terms using the correct email address it had for her. Its unfortunate she didnt receive 
that email but I dont think thats because of anything Great Lakes got wrong. And I think it 
was to Miss Ms benefit it then referred the matter to the dispute resolution service as that 
led to the claim being reduced to £785. Under the terms of the policy Great Lakes is entitled 
to rely on the decision reached by the dispute resolution service. 
I appreciate Miss M feels the video evidence she subsequently submitted should outweigh 
the decision of the dispute resolution service. And its therefore not fair of Great Lakes to 
pursue her for the outstanding debt. But I dont agree. Ive viewed the video evidence and I 
appreciate it doesnt show obvious issues with the condition of the property. 
However, it appears to have been taken prior to Miss Ms departure as not everything has 
been removed from the property. And the dated check-out report which was supplied by the 
lettings agency contains much more detailed photographs which do show issues when 
compared to the check-in report. So I dont think Miss Ms video does obviously outweigh the 
evidence provided to the dispute resolution service or demonstrate its decision was clearly 
wrong. Given that I think Great Lakes acted in line with the terms of her policy and treated 
Miss M fairly in concluding she remains liable for the outstanding amount.
I do feel Great Lakes should have considered the video evidence when Miss M submitted it. 
But I think the £50 its now agreed to pay is a reasonable way of recognising the impact on 
Miss M of not doing that earlier. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to pay 
Miss M £50. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
James Park
Ombudsman