DRN-3239897
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused to split the title to his property without 
getting a valuation as to whether its security would be adversely affected. Mr S wants 
Santander to either instruct a valuation paid for by Mr S or waive the early repayment charge 
(ERC) so he can get another mortgage.
What happened
Mr S bought a property with assistance of a buy to let mortgage from Santander in 
September 2020. The mortgage was arranged through a broker. In November 2020 his 
solicitors wrote to Santander to advise that Mr S had plans to build a substantial dwelling on 
part of the mortgaged land. So, Mr S wanted Santanders consent to the transfer out of part 
of the land to a development company and also granting access and service rights over the 
retained part. Santander wrote back in January 2021 to say that its residential lending policy 
was not to allow title splits and wouldnt agree to the proposal which it says was considered 
by its specialist lending team.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Santander was entitled under its terms and conditions to refuse the application. Mr S 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has had previous experience of lenders agreeing to a title split based on a valuation of 
the property taking into consideration the value of the security after the split and doesnt 
believe that its fair that Santander wont accommodate him similarly. Mr S wants to separate 
a part of the land from the existing house and then have plans passed for a new dwelling 
with a new building some time in the future. That area presently forms part of the mortgaged 
property and the application to split the title and make the rear into a building is for the 
purpose of a change of use. It also seems that a new access road would be created to the 
side of the existing house within the remaining security together with access for services.
So, in my view that proposal falls within Section 22 (i) of the mortgage terms and conditions 
that requires Santanders written consent. Mr S made that application and it was refused 
because its Santanders policy not to accept requests to split the title to enable development 
of the land and/or subsequent sale. In my view that isnt an unreasonable policy as I accept 
that issues can arise as a result of, or during the course of, a development that might affect 
Santanders security, and that Santander might simply want to avoid those potential risks to 
the value of its security. I see nothing wrong with that. 
So, my view is that this application required written consent and although refused, I dont 
consider that such was unfair. I also dont agree that Santander failed to honour its 
commitment to treat its customer, Mr S fairly. Santander didnt recommend this mortgage to 
Mr S. The mortgage was for a buy to let property on the existing land not a development 
loan. Mr S should have been aware that his application to apply for a split and development 
of the land would be subject to Santanders consent. Santander didnt indicate that it had 
adapted the policies of other lenders which Mr S had dealt with before and it had reasonable 
grounds to refuse its consent. So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman