DRN-1546274
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Miss A and Mr S payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
I think its likely Santander made Miss A and Mr S aware that the PPI was optional, but that 
they still chose to take it  I dont have any evidence to the contrary. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Miss A and Mr S, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Miss A and Mr Ss particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss A and Mr Ss situation at 
the time: 
Its likely Mr S (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr S received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. Its not clear how much savings Miss A and Mr S 
had at the time; and, in any case, it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any such savings or other means they may have had for paying 
the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Miss A and Mr S in a 
more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr S would 
have been affected by any of these.
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Miss A and Mr S to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Miss A and Mr S took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Mr Ss sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So its unlikely that 
more information wouldnt have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman