DRN-4426522
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS), gave him conflicting information about setting up a repayment plan.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S entered into a regulated hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new 
car. He was to pay about £640 a month for 48 months. (He also had an unregulated service 
agreement.)
In May 2020 Mr S ran into financial difficulties due to the covid-19 pandemic. In August 2022 
he voluntarily terminated the agreement, and asked to pay off his arrears in a repayment 
plan, paying £164 a month for three years. He was initially told that he could do so, but was 
later informed that a repayment plan could not exceed one year. This complaint is about 
being given this conflicting information.
(Mr S has also complained about being harassed by VWFS and various issues of poor 
customer service over the past two years, but our investigator ruled that our service had no 
jurisdiction to consider those points, because Mr S had left it too late under our time limits. 
He also sought to complain about the service agreement, but as that is unregulated the 
investigator said she could not consider that either. Those decisions have not been 
challenged, and so this decision is only about the issues which our investigator considered 
on their merits.)
Mr S says that the whole experience has adversely affected his mental health, and this in 
turn has diminished his ability to do his job. He says this has cost him about £5,000 a month. 
Between that and his general distress, he has asked for compensation of £151,000.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She agreed that VWFS had given Mr S the wrong 
information about setting up a repayment plan, and that this error had been aggravated by 
VWFS failing to deal with that complaint point in its most recent final response letter. But she 
also thought this had been alleviated somewhat by the fact that in September 2022 VWFS 
had agreed a repayment plan of £165 a month over three years. So the misinformation had 
not ultimately prevented Mr S from paying back his arrears in the way that he had proposed, 
and affordably. She recommended that VWFS pay Mr S £300 for his inconvenience.
VWFS accepted that recommendation. Mr S did not. He said his life was worth more than 
£300. He emphasised the impact everything had had on him. He said he could not allow 
VWFS to get away with it. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS accepts that this complaint should be upheld, but Ive still considered the evidence. 
Ive listened to the recording of the August 2022 phone call in which the call handler told 
Mr S that he could repay the outstanding balance over as long a period as necessary. He 
was subsequently told that this was not possible. I can see in VWFSs contact notes that in 
September a repayment plan was put in place for one year, not three, at £165 a month. But 
this appears to have been extended annually, so that this plan remained in place for three 
years. (It may have been done this way as a workaround.)
So I will uphold Mr Ss complaint about being misinformed. It only remains for me to decide 
what would be fair compensation for that error.
Putting things right
I must emphasise here that I am only dealing with Mr Ss complaint about what happened 
when he voluntarily terminated the agreement and tried to set up a repayment plan. I am not 
trying to compensate him for everything that happened over the two years from when covid 
struck.
I certainly agree that Mr Ss life is worth more than £300, but that does not mean that the 
value of his complaint has to be measured quite like that. I am only considering the impact 
on him of being told one thing, and then another, and the disappointment and distress that it 
must have caused him when the prospect of a three-year repayment plan he could afford 
was seemingly snatched away. That must have been upsetting. But the following month, the 
repayment plan he wanted (or a very similar version of it) was agreed. So the bad news 
turned out to be wrong, and the good news  temporarily contradicted  turned out to be true 
after all. The original information was honoured in the end.
It is regrettable that this happened at all, particularly to someone who was a vulnerable 
customer. Mr S says (and I accept) that he was experiencing mental health problems at the 
time, and of course he had been in long-term financial difficulties too. Taking this into 
account, however, I do not think that compensation of a six-figure sum is called for in this 
case. I think that £300 is fair.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr S £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman