DRN-3818498
The complaint
Mr S says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mr S. 
The account was opened in July 2018 with Mr S being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
This limit was increased eight times until it reached £2,400 in February 2021. 
Mr S says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit and didnt 
make proper checks to find out if he was in financial difficulties.
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Mr S his account 
and also each time it increased his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that Mr S wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on his 
account by the time it offered Mr S the increased credit limit for the sixth time, in August 
2019. J D Williams has said it will accept our adjudicators view but Mr S remains 
unhappy with the finding, saying he wants a better breakdown of how his redress has 
been calculated. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Mr S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the checks J D Williams carried out at the time it opened the 
account didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams. He also thought that 
for the first three credit limit increases, up to December 2018, there wasnt enough to 
show that J D Williams shouldnt have increased his credit limit on each of those 
occasions. However, he considered that by December 2018, when Mr S was borrowing 
more by way of revolving credit, J D Williams ought to have asked Mr S about his income, 
daily expenses and monthly outgoings. But overall, our adjudicator thought that there 
wasnt enough to show that Mr S was having financial difficulty to the extent that J D 
Williams shouldnt have increased his credit limit at that point. Similarly, taking into 
consideration that Mr S had underpaid on his account in January 2019, our adjudicator 
thought that J D Williams ought to have again looked into Mr Ss financial situation before 
giving him a credit limit increase in February 2019. Based on the information Mr S gave us 
and having seen his credit file, I agree its unlikely that better information would have led 
to J D Williams changing its mind up to this point. 
Our adjudicator went on to set out why, by August 2019 when Mr Ss credit limit was 
increased for the sixth time within 12 months, he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr S with any additional credit. This is supported by Mr S having made an 
underpayment and having failed to make minimum payments on at least two occasions 
since hed opened the account. It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that a point was 
reached by August 2019 when J D Williams increased Mr Ss total credit limit to £1,250, 
which ought to have prompted J D Williams to realise further credit as likely to be 
unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mr S. I therefore think J D Williams ought to have 
realised there was a real risk that increasing Mr Ss credit limit in these circumstances 
would lead to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
It follows that I think that Mr S lost out because J D Williams provided him with further credit 
from August 2019 onwards. 
Is J D Williams paying the correct redress to Mr S?
Ive set out below in the redress section of this decision details of how we expect redress to 
be paid. This reflects our general approach when requiring businesses to pay redress in 
cases like these. 
Mr S is unhappy with details about the compensation that J D Williams will be paying. He 
would like more detail about how interest was calculated. Ive reviewed the correspondence, 
including the information J D Williams has provided to our adjudicator. Ive also seen a 
breakdown showing the interest and late payment charges that J D Williams intended to 
refund to Mr S. Our adjudicator has explained the calculation to Mr S and provided him with details. J D Williams has confirmed it has provided the relevant details relating to the 
calculation and has said that the calculations are produced by its own system rather than 
manually. I understand that the redress payment, totalling £498.43, has now been made by 
way of an adjustment to Mr Ss account balance. 
I consider the point at which our adjudicator found that the complaint should be upheld from 
is correct and that J D Williams has provided us with enough detail about its redress 
calculation. I therefore dont require it do anything more, beyond ensuring that all 
compensation has been paid in accordance with the Putting things right section below.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Ss account to ensure that from August 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1,000, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr S has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file from August 
2019 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from 
August 2019 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman