DRN-2535851
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse). He also says the car was mis-sold to him as the service 
record was wrong.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was 
nearly three years old and had completed about 33,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if there is a fault with the car reported within the first six 
months it is to be assumed that the fault was present at the point of supply unless the 
business can demonstrate otherwise. But if the fault is reported after six months the onus is 
on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was most likely present or developing when the 
car was supplied  the point at which the business has responsibility for its quality.
So, I think the onus is on Mr M to demonstrate the fault has been present or developing 
since the onset of his finance agreement.
Mr M says he noticed the shuddering early on and that he booked the car in to be looked at 
by a main dealership. He says they identified an issue with a missing service that he had to 
discuss with the supplying dealership. But the record of the visit Mr M made to the 
dealership in June 2019 doesnt document any investigation into the shuddering Mr M says 
he reported and theres no detail of any work or diagnosis of this fault in August either and, 
even if there was, by this point Mr M would have had the car for more than six months and 
thered need to be evidence that the problem had, most likely, been present from the 
beginning. 
The first report I can see into the shuddering problem is in 2020, about a year from the point 
of supply. Its clear there is a problem with the car and the independent expert engineer also 
confirmed that when he inspected the vehicle. He noted there was a vibration from the clutch 
pedal and suggested there was likely to be a problem with the clutch and flywheel. But he 
went on to explain that he didnt think there was evidence the fault was present at the point 
of supply. I dont think Mr M has provided sufficient evidence to enable me to dispute that.
Mr M has explained that since the independent inspector looked at his car he has needed to 
have the crank pulley replaced. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary that would 
appear more likely to be due to normal wear and tear than to anything wrong with the car 
when supplied.
Overall, I dont think theres enough evidence this car was faulty when supplied and Im 
therefore not asking Black Horse to take any further action about the quality of the car.
the missing service
If Mr M was told there was a full-service history but there wasnt, I may suggest the car was 
mis-sold to him. But the advert for the car didnt explain there was a full-service history. So, 
Im not persuaded Black Horse need to take any action in respect of that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman