DRN-2642537
The complaint
T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money it lost when it fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In January 2019 T fell victim to a scam.
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail here. But 
in summary;
At the start of 2019 T contracted a third-party company to source a vehicle, that T then 
intended to convert into a campervan. The sourcing company found a suitable vehicle, 
through a well-known automotive advertising site and contacted the seller. 
T has explained that the sourcing company had all of the communications with the seller and 
negotiated the price. The sourcing company provided T with pictures of the vehicle and 
carried out checks on the vehicle, which all appeared to be fine. Having agreed a price, T 
went ahead and made the following payments, totalling £13,560, via online banking  on the 
understanding that the vehicle would then be delivered to them;
4/1/2019 £2,260
5/1/2019 £11,300
Around half an hour after the second payment had been made, the sourcing company 
contacted T raising suspicions that this may be a fraud. The reason for this was because it 
had seen details of other vans being sold by the seller, which looked too good to be true. 
Following this the sourcing company contacted the car dealers, who the seller claimed to be 
working for, only to be told that the seller was not known to the them and they did not have 
this van for sale. 
T has also told us that it tried to contact the seller and was initially promised a refund, but 
then the seller became abusive and stopped all contact.
On realising something wasnt right, T contacted Barclays on 8 January 2019 to report the 
scam. Barclays contacted the receiving bank, but it was advised that no funds remained.
T then complained to Barclays. Barclays looked into Ts complaint, but didnt uphold it, as it 
said the transactions T had made werent unusual and were in line with the normal spending 
trends for the account. It said it tried to recover the money from the receiving bank, as soon 
as it was made aware of the scam, but no funds remained.  Barclays did say that there was 
a lack of contact with T while the scam claim was taking place and there was a delay in 
raising the complaint  in recognition of this Barclays offered £200 compensation to T.
Unhappy with Barclays response, T then brought its complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator initially issued a view, upholding the 
complaint and taking into consideration the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). 
But Barclays rejected our investigators view, pointing out that the CRM code was not in 
place at the time the transactions took place.
As a result our investigator looked into things again. He didnt think the first payment made, 
for £2,260, was so suspicious that he would have expected Barclays to have intervened. But 
our investigator thought that at the point the second payment was made, for £11,300, it was 
unusual, because it was much larger than any previous transaction made on the account.
Because of this he thought Barclays should have intervened and spoken to T before allowing 
the payment to be processed. 
But our investigator didnt think the intervention would have made a difference and 
prevented T from making the payment. He said this because he thought had Barclays called, 
T would have been able to explain that a trusted third-party company had sourced the 
vehicle and carried out the relevant checks. Our investigator said at the point the transaction 
was made he didnt think there would have been evidence that this was a scam and he didnt 
think Barclays would have had concerns about the payment, and would most likely have 
allowed it to leave the account. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but T disagreed. So the complaint has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
I should say at the outset that Barclays was correct to raise with our investigator its concerns 
about the complaint being looked at in line with the CRM code. The CRM code was 
introduced on 28 May 2019 and isnt retrospective. Therefore, as this scam occurred before 
the code came into effect, I cant take it into consideration when deciding this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to T, and I can understand entirely why it feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to it. But having thought very carefully about 
Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave Ts 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ts complaint. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for it, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should reimburse T 
the money it has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payments Services Regulations 2017 states that T is liable for any transactions that it 
has authorised or consented to. So, although T didnt intend the money to go to the 
fraudster, under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of its account, T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with 
T, when T made transfers to a fraudster and when it reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
T has accepted that it authorised the transfers. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation 
to follow its instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I 
consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Ts account activity for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont 
think the first payment it made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character in 
comparison to the normal account activity. I say this as there are a number of other 
transactions of over £1000, and the transaction didnt clear the account balance, which is 
often the case with scams. So, on balance, I dont think the payment made, of £2,260, was 
so out of character or unusual, compared with how the account was typically run, that I could 
fairly have expected Barclays to have made enquiries about the payment before processing 
it. 
But I do think at the time T attempted to make the second payment there was enough going 
on that I would have expected Barclays to have intervened.  As here the payment was much 
larger than any other payments in the six-month period leading up to the scam and was a 
payment of increasing value to a new payee, which is common with scams. But it is finely 
balanced, as Ive not seen that the payment cleared a disproportionate amount of the 
balance, which as Ive mentioned can be an indicator of fraud.  But on balance, I think 
Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened and spoken to T before allowing the 
second payment, for £11,300, to be processed. 
Ive gone on to think about what difference I think an intervention would have made 
here. Having thought carefully about this, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that it would more likely than not have made a difference and prevented T from making the 
payment and Ill explain why. 
 
Had Barclays intervened Id have expected it to ask T some questions about the payment. 
For example, it could have asked questions such as, but not limited to, what the payment 
was for, had checks been carried out on the vehicle, where was the vehicle being purchased 
from, had T seen the vehicle, what research had T done on the vehicle.  Had Barclays asked 
these, or similar questions, Im persuaded T would have been able to give plausible and 
persuasive answers to the bank. It would have been able to explain it was looking to 
purchase a vehicle, had used a third-party company to source the vehicle, who had carried 
out the usual checks and it was being bought from a well-known trading site. 
 
Im persuaded its more likely than not the answers T would have given, even though it 
hadnt physically seen the vehicle, would have been sufficient to reassure Barclays that it 
wasnt at risk of financial harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the 
circumstances of what was happening I think T would have been confident it was making a 
payment that was to legitimately buy a vehicle from what seemed like a legitimate source, 
and Barclays couldnt reasonably have known or had concerns of what might eventually 
unfold. For these reasons I dont think Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
concerned that T may have been at risk of financial harm. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Barclays did what it shouldve done once T reported to it 
that it had been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Barclays made to recover 
the money, once the scam was reported. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Barclays to 
refund the money to T, I need to be satisfied that Barclays should have acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Barclays raised the matter with the receiving bank, but the money had 
been removed from the receiving bank soon after it had been paid, which is often the case 
with scams. So sadly, none of the money T had paid remained, because it had already been 
removed from the recipients account.
T has also mentioned that there were no security measures in place to make sure the name 
of the bank account it thought it was paying, matched where the money was going to. At the 
time the payment(s) was made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique identifiers (typically 
the account number and sort code). In particular, section 74 of the PSR 2017 states: (1) 
Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment 
order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider involved 
in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account 
number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for 
Barclays to check the beneficiary account any further. So, I cant fairly say that Barclays 
didnt follow Ts instruction when it sent the payments to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary name 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays acknowledged that it could have kept T more informed and raised a complaint 
about the scam sooner and in recognition of this it offered T £200. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Its very unfortunate T has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for it. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should have done more to prevent it losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman