DRN-2589090
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was unable to make a transaction between two of his credit card 
accounts due to Experian Limited reporting that an account was closed. He wants a refund 
of interest hes been charged and compensation.
What happened
Mr B tells us that in April 2019 he was unable to carry out a balance transfer between two of 
his accounts. He says that he tried to transfer his balance between businesses Ill refer to as 
N and H. Mr B explains that N told him the account he held with it (N) was open and there 
were no blocks to prevent any balance transfers. And he says he was aware this account 
with N was open as hed processed other transactions. He explains that H then informed him 
the transfer was blocked due to Experian reporting that his account with N was closed.
Mr B says hes still not been able to obtain a satisfactory answer.
Experian told us that whilst it provides the Bank Wizard service it doesnt control the 
information that is put into it. And that it wouldnt advise if an account was closed. It said that 
H shouldnt have suggested that Mr B contact Experian. Rather it (H) shouldve investigated 
the issue itself. And then raised it with the dedicated resource it had within Experian if 
required.
Experian further explained that it had checked its records and that Mr Bs credit card account 
with N was showing as active. And that two credit card accounts held with H were also 
showing active with no issues. It felt that Mr B hadnt checked his Experian credit file. And 
that if hed done so hed have seen that Experian is showing the accounts as live.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Experian had provided information to show that its system shows Mr Bs account with N as 
active. He explained that information on the Wizard system is input by the relevant 
business. And that Experian does not control the data which is inputted.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He felt that Experian and Halifax had plenty of time 
to resolve the issue that was preventing the transfer. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr B has experienced the inconvenience of not being able to make a balance 
transfer between two of his accounts. And I understand his frustration at what he no doubt 
sees as his being caught up in a dispute between Experian, H and N. I empathise with his 
situation.
Its not disputed that Mr B was unable to make the balance transfer. Yet each of the 
businesses involved denies that whatever issue is preventing this apparently simple 
transaction from occurring is its responsibility.
As Im only looking at the actions of Experian in this complaint, Im not able to apportion 
responsibility between other businesses which are not directly parties to this complaint.
Experian is the provider of a platform through which financial businesses may input and 
check information. I understand that Bank Wizard is designed to verify bank account and 
card details. But Experian doesnt directly control what information is provided. This remains 
the responsibility of the relevant business.
For example, if a credit reference agency such as Experian is reporting account information   
the only ongoing source of that information would be expected to come from the business 
which operated that account. 
To try to get an accurate picture, Ive seen various pieces of correspondence and screen 
shots of Mr Bs credit file with Experian.
Ive seen a letter from N to Mr B, dated 11 May 2019. This states Mr Bs account with it (N) is 
open and there are no blocks or holds. It suggests that the source of the problem might be 
that Hs systems need updating. Im not able to say whether or not that provides the 
explanation.
Ive also read a final response letter dated 18 June 2019 which H sent to Mr B. In that letter 
H explained that it relied on Bank Wizard and that platform was reporting Mr Bs account 
with N as closed. It suggested he contacted N and Experian. The contents of Hs letter are 
clear enough. But Im not able to say if those contents are factually correct or whether they 
result from (as N inferred) systems which hadnt been updated.
To complete the chain, Ive read Experians final response letter dated 1 August 2019 in 
which it explains it doesnt control the information which is put into the system. Ive also been 
provided with a screen shot of information which shows that Experian is reporting Mr B has 
an active credit card account with N. It also shows two active accounts with H. The screen 
shots indicate that the accounts have been open for many years going back to 2004/5. And 
they dont display any period when the accounts were closed.
Ive already indicated that Im not able to determine within the terms of this complaint against 
Experian, whether or not another business might be in error. What I can say is that the two 
parties which I would expect to have the closest relationship regarding the details of Mr Bs 
account (N as the account operator and reporter of information and Experian as the recipient 
and recorder of that information) both appear to be consistent in what they state. N says the 
account is open and thats what the screen shot of Experians credit file on Mr B also shows.
As far as I can identify H is the only business which is suggesting otherwise.
I understand that the outcome of this complaint is likely to disappoint Mr B. And I accept that 
whilst my decision determines this complaint, it doesnt provide a solution to the issue which 
faces Mr B. Whilst I regret this, Im not able to go beyond my remit which is to consider the 
complaint only against Experian.
On the information Ive seen theres nothing which satisfies me that Experian reported Mr Bs 
account with N as closed. Why he was unable to process the balance transfer Im not able to 
say. But as I cant say that it was due to an error by Experian, Im not upholding this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman