DRN-2804000
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with    Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had covered 
73,907 miles.
Mr S experienced issues with the engine management light illuminating. He took the car to 
the garage to have the issue fixed but every time he got the car back the light illuminated 
again. Eventually he had some repairs carried out which resolved the issue.
Mr S complained to Moneybarn in February 2019 and asked for the cost of repairs to b 
refunded. In response, Moneybarn said that because more than 6 months had elapsed since 
the point of supply, it was up to Mr S to show that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, He thought the car had a fault which was present or 
developing at the point of supply and said Moneybarn should refund the cost of repairs. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it wasnt aware that Mr S had reported any issues to the 
supplying dealer within the first 6 months and said that if hed provided evidence that he had 
done so, it would have arranged an independent inspection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.  
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold 
the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault, as opposed to a 
fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Mr S has explained that he experienced a fault in November 2018 and reported issues with 
the engine management light illuminating to the supplying dealer within the first 6 months. 
Moneybarn has said that that Mr S didnt report the fault within the first 6 months, but this 
isnt supported by Moneybarns own final response in which it states that after contacting the 
dealership, they advised that they had previously arranged for repairs to the vehicle as was 
the obligation.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr S reported the fault to the supplying dealer within the first 
6 months and that repairs were carried out.
Mr S has said that the repairs arranged by the dealer didnt resolve the issue and that the 
engine management light continued to illuminate and the car kept going into limp mode. He 
says that in May 2020 a third-party garage diagnosed a leak causing antifreeze to go 
through the exhaust system and causing the NOx sensors to fail. It was at this point that 
successful repairs were carried out at Mr Ss expense.
Taking the available information into account, and because the fault occurred within the first 
6 months, Im of the view that Moneybarn should have done more when Mr S reported the 
issue in February 2109. It should have arranged to have the car independently inspected to 
determine whether the fault was a point of supply fault.
Moneybarn has since offered to arrange an inspection. However, I dont think this would help 
to resolve things now, because the car has already been repaired.
Because Moneybarn didnt arrange to have the car inspected when it should have done, Mr 
S has been placed in a position where he had to arrange for an inspection and pay for 
repairs himself.
Ive looked at the available information regarding the diagnostics and repairs which have 
taken place. These show that when Mr S first reported the fault to the dealer, it told him to 
take the car to another garage for inspection. The garage told Mr S that there was a fault 
with the NOx sensor. Mr S says that when he reported this back to the dealer it didnt believe 
that this was the issue and told him to go to a different garage, who diagnose an issue with 
the DPF and regenerated it. 
Mr S has said that the day after he collected the car it went into limp mode again. Ive no 
reason tom disbelieve Mr S. So it appears that the repairs carried out in November 2018 
werent successful.
Since then, the car has had further diagnostic tests. The diagnostic carried out in August 
2020 found that there was a leak of antifreeze which was running through the exhaust and 
affecting the NOx sensors.
Based on the job sheets ad taking into account all of the other information, Im of the view 
that it was more likely than not that this antifreeze leak  and the consequences of it  was 
present or developing at the point of supply. I say this because the issues reported by Mr S 
have ben the same throughout and the first diagnostic identified an issue with the NOx 
sensor.
Putting things right
The supplying dealer has already had one opportunity to repair the car. Ive explained why I 
dont think the repairs were successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr S would be entitled to reject the car. however, Mr S has said that now hes paid to have the car repaired, he 
wants to keep it. So I think the fairest way to resolve the complaint is for Moneybarn to 
refund the cost of the repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn Number 1 Limited must:
Refund repair costs of £2,219.42 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for trouble and upset  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman