DRN-3424189
The complaint
Mr I complains that FISC Limited mis-sold him a motor insurance Guaranteed Asset 
Protection (GAP) policy and a Minor Cosmetic Repair policy for his car. He wants it to waive 
the balance FISC says he owes.
 
What happened
Mr I said that he was mis-sold insurance that was included with his car lease costs. He said 
he was told clearly that no final payment would be due at the end of the lease. But when he 
returned the car, he was shocked to be asked to pay £572.37.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
correct sales process had been followed and the products were suited to Mr Is needs. He 
considered Mr Is testimony that he was told there would be no final payments. 
But he also saw the documents that Mr I had signed at the point of sale. These stated clearly 
that Mr I was required to make 36 repayments for the insurance products and then a final 
payment of £572.37. He thought Mr I must have realised that the total cost for the products 
would exceed what he had paid in his monthly instalments. And he thought it was unlikely 
that Mr I would have been told that the final payment wouldnt be due.  
Mr I replied reiterating his stance that he had been told by the sales agent that the costs of 
the insurance products were included in the final hire purchase agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr I felt shocked when he received a bill for the remainder of his 
insurance premiums when he decided to return his car at the end of the lease. Hes told us 
that this wasnt what he recalled when he bought the cover three years earlier. And I was 
sorry to hear of the financial difficulties this has caused him. 
Like the Investigator, Ive considered Mr Is testimony about the potential mis-sale. The sale 
was made at the car showroom and so there arent any recorded conversations for me to 
consider. So Ive looked at the sales process to see if the products suited his needs and at 
how clear it was made that a final payment would be due at the end of the contract. 
Mr I was taken through a general finance planning review and a general insurance planning 
review. Documents recorded the details for both of these reviews. The insurance review 
identified needs along with the agents recommendations, why they were made, and the 
documentation provided.
Mr I said his car insurance didnt pay the original selling price of his car if a claim was made. 
Also, that his policy didnt cover against cosmetic repairs. It was noted that it was important 
for Mr I to maintain the standard of the car to maximise the resale value.
So a potential need was found for two types of insurance. Firstly, one to cover the difference 
between the settlement amount Mr Is car insurance would pay out in the event of a claim 
and the original value of his car. Secondly, for cover that would repair accidental damage to 
the alloy wheels and minor cosmetic issues. 
Two optional products were recommended to meet these needs. And Mr I was provided with 
quotes and key facts documents. Mr I chose these two products and he signed a form to 
confirm that hed had two clear days since the sale to think about his purchase, he was 
aware of the premiums for the optional policies, and that hed received all the documents. 
Im satisfied that Mr Is hire purchase agreement sets out clearly the costs of the two policies 
and the interest applied over the 37 month term. Mr I was required to pay a monthly amount 
and then a lump sum was required in month 37 if he decided not to keep the car. Mr I said 
he wasnt aware that there was a separate payment for the insurance costs. But I can see 
that he signed the forms electronically and so agreed them. So Im satisfied that terms were 
made clear to him. 
Mr I also said he wasnt aware that a lump sum would remain owing in month 37. But I can 
see that this is stated clearly on the form he signed. And I can see that the first 36 payments 
he would make over the course of the contract would leave this sum owing. So, on balance, I 
think it is most unlikely that Mr I was told by the agent that a final payment wouldnt be 
required. 
So, from the evidence provided, Im satisfied that the required discussions took place in the 
sale and the needs for the two policies were identified. I think Mr I was provided with the 
policy documents, told they were optional, and had time to consider them, in keeping with 
the relevant regulations. I think the hire purchase agreement clearly states the amount of the 
final payment and when it is due. So I cant say the policies were mis-sold or that Mr I 
shouldnt pay the final amount owing for them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman