DRN-2769332
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited declined a claim under his residential property 
owner insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S made a claim to Amtrust for storm damage to a property he lets 
out. His tenant said that in January or February 2020 rain water had started getting in above 
the landing ceiling.
Amtrust instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster said the landing 
plasterboard ceiling was bowing and needed replacement followed by redecoration. There 
was also a rotten timber door frame above one of the bedroom doors.
The loss adjuster said from his ground level inspection he couldnt see any obvious signs of 
physical storm damage, although he thought water might be getting in through a cracked 
roof tile. He said there were many foreign objects on the roof which he thought had been 
thrown up there.
Mr S arranged for a roofer to carry out the repairs. Amtrust said according to the roofer the 
guttering was full of moss and as a result of this the roofer believed it had overflowed and 
water had got in under the roof tiles causing the felt to rot over time. The roofer also noted 
there was a crack in a single roof tile.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said the damage wasnt consistent with a one-off incidence of 
storm damage.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator found there were dry storms in 
January and February 2020 with no significant rainfall. He didnt think the damage to the 
roof felt and the internal damage would have been caused by this sort of storm. But he 
thought Amtrust should cover the damage to the broken roof tile.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Amtrust hasnt disputed that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage 
occurred. I understand that there were high winds in the local area around the relevant time.
Regarding the second question, damage to a roof tile is typical of storm damage.
The external damage claimed for is a cracked roof tile. Amtrusts loss adjuster thought the 
crack had either been caused by wear and tear or by something thrown onto the roof by the 
tenants children. If the crack was due to wear and tear, Id expect the cracking to be more 
widespread than just one tile. But this was a large horizontal crack. I think it was more likely 
to have been caused by impact.
Two possible causes of the impact damage have been mentioned. It appears that Mr Ss 
tenants children might have thrown other things onto the roof. The roof isnt very steep. So 
items thrown onto the roof might well stay up there and be visible from ground level. 
Alternatively there is a large tree near the house. Mr Ss roofer said he found branches and 
twigs on the roof. Impact damage from falling tree branches is a common cause of cracked 
roof tiles. It seems to me more likely that the roof would have been damaged by branches 
and twigs dislodged during storm force winds than by something thrown up by children. 
I appreciate that a photo shows moss growing in the crack. But since the photo of the roof 
tile was taken several months after the storm, the moss could have grown in the meantime 
and doesnt necessarily indicate that the damage predated the storm.
So I dont think Amtrust treated Mr S fairly in saying that it wouldnt cover this damage. It 
should reimburse Mr S what he has paid to replace the roof tile plus interest. 
Looking at the internal damage caused to Mr Ss property, its clear there has been a 
substantial ingress of water, with the ceiling bowing under the weight of this, wood 
becoming rotten and the roof felt being severely perished on a long section of roof. Taking 
into account the fact that it was dry storm, that is one with high winds but no significant 
rainfall, I think its unlikely a storm was the main cause of the internal damage. 
According to Amtrust, initially Mr Ss roofer told its loss adjuster that the guttering had 
overflowed because it was full of moss. Photos show this to be the case. He thought that 
had caused water to get in under the roof tiles, helped by the shallow pitch of the roof. I 
think its likely that, as the loss adjuster said, the damage was consistent with a long-
running issue which had gradually worsened over time. I place less weight on the roofers 
later comment that water had got in through the cracked roof tile because he only 
suggested that after Mr Ss claim had been declined. All in all I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require Amtrust to pay for this damage under the storm damage section of 
the policy. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Amtrust should reimburse Mr S what he has paid to replace the 
roof tile plus simple interest at 8% from the date Mr S paid for the repair to the date of 
settlement provided and to the extent this exceeds the £100 excess payable under the 
policy. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to reimburse Mr S what he 
has paid to replace the roof tile plus simple interest at 8% from the date Mr S paid for the repair to the date of settlement provided and to the extent this exceeds the £100 excess 
payable under the policy. 
If Amtrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman