DRN-2500007
The complaint
The executor of the estate of Mrs S has complained about a lifetime mortgage Mr and Mrs S 
took out in 2007 with Prudential Lifetime Mortgages Limited. He has said he is shocked and 
appalled to see how much compound interest has accrued on the mortgage. He also said he 
was unhappy that interest continued to accrue after Mrs S death, which he considers is 
immoral and unethical. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs S were purchasing a property and needed a mortgage to do so. They 
were retiring and so sought assistance from a mortgage broker. The broker recommended a 
lifetime mortgage for £44,500 with a fixed interest rate of 7.37% per year for the entire term. 
No payments were required to be made by Mr and Mrs S and the interest was rolled into the 
mortgage debt. 
Mrs S died in 2020, Mr S having pre-deceased her, and the executor contacted Prudential 
for a redemption statement. Following the executor becoming aware of the size of the 
mortgage debt, he complained.
Prudential responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that like most loans 
the mortgage Mr and Mrs S took out continues to accrue interest until the debt is repaid. It 
disagreed that this was an immoral practice or that interest should be frozen at death. It also 
said neither involvement or consent was required from the beneficiaries of any future 
estates; it was solely the parties entering into the contract that need to be involved. Those 
parties were required to sign the mortgage deed in the presence of a solicitor; the solicitor 
having ensured they understood the arrangement they were entering into, including the 
effect on their estates. Prudential said it was up to Mr and Mrs S to decide whether they 
wanted to borrow money on the terms that were offered. 
The executor wasnt happy with Prudentials response and asked us to look into the 
complaint. When doing so he explained that he had been present when the advice to take 
the mortgage had been given. He said the focus was on how the mortgage would allow 
Mr and Mrs S to buy the house they wanted and live there without having to pay anything. 
He said Mr and Mrs S werent told to seek independent advice and no consideration was 
given to other ways of funding the shortfall in finances. The executor said he advised against 
the mortgage, but Mr S had been determined to take it out.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that the mortgage had been sold to Mr and Mrs S by an independent 
mortgage broker and so Prudential wasnt responsible for its suitability; only Prudentials 
administration of the account. As for the amount the mortgage debt had increased to and the 
charging of interest until the debt was repaid, he didnt think Prudential had done anything 
wrong. Indeed, he pointed out that the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs S accepted included 
figures for the amount the debt would be after different time periods  that for 13 years 
detailed a debt of over £117,000  so he was satisfied Prudential had made them aware of 
how much the debt could increase to. The investigator also explained why lifetime 
mortgages attracted higher interest rates than conventional mortgages. 
The executor didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that the interest rate was 
too high, and pointed out that Mr and Mrs S had never been offered another interest rate 
product during the term of the mortgage when interest rates dropped. He also remained 
unhappy that interest continued to be charged after Mrs S death. He asked for a second 
opinion.
Our investigator confirmed that mortgage Mr and Mrs S had was arranged with a fixed 
interest rate throughout its term. As such, the lender wouldnt be expected to offer new 
interest rates during the term of the mortgage. He reiterated that he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Prudential to have charged interest until the debt was repaid. 
The executor maintained his request for the complaint to be assessed by someone else and 
so it has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm what our investigator 
explained to the executor of Mrs S estate; the advice to take out the mortgage and 
responsibility for its suitability was the mortgage brokers. So the aspects of the complaint 
regarding whether the mortgage was appropriate for Mr and Mrs S, or the most suitable 
option for them at the time, would be rightly directed to the broker. In this decision I can only 
consider the information Prudential provided Mr and Mrs S with and its administration of the 
mortgage.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor has highlighted that the mortgage was transferred to Prudential after it was 
arranged. He is of the opinion that this means Prudential should have behaved differently 
toward the mortgage than the original lender would have. When a transfer of business takes 
place, the terms and conditions associated with the loan will transfer with it and are applied 
by the new lender. 
I can understand given the interest rate associated with the loan that the executor would 
have liked Prudential to have changed the terms of the mortgage contract to offer a lower 
interest rate, but thats not something it had to do or that I can suggest it should have. If 
interest rates had increased during the term of the mortgage, I dont believe the executor 
would have approved Prudential changing the contract to change interest rates to reflect that 
type of change, and its not reasonable to have expected it to do so the other way around.  I 
would also comment that the interest rate on Mr and Mrs S mortgage was quite typical for 
lifetime mortgages at the time it was taken out.
It is normal on all types of mortgage that interest continues to accrue on the debt until it is 
paid off. When a mortgagor dies, the debt doesnt cease, but rather the ownership of the 
debt is attributed to the estate of the deceased person. While the debt is still owed, it will 
continue to attract interest. The executor has said this is unfair as all the beneficiaries didnt 
sign the mortgage agreement. As our investigator pointed out, none of the beneficiaries 
signed the mortgage deed or were a party to the mortgage contract. Whether all, some or 
none of the beneficiaries were aware of or involved in the advice process, isnt relevant to 
this complaint  the contract was between Mr and Mrs S and Prudential. I dont find it was 
unreasonable for Prudential to continue to charge interest after Mrs S death as there was a 
debt outstanding at the time.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman