DRN-3731960
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wrote to her about a loan that 
wasnt hers.
What happened
Mrs C didnt have a loan from Barclays, but she received letters from Barclays debt 
collection agency. There were approximately nine letters sent to her address between 
December 2020 and December 2021. 
Mrs C complained. She said she hadnt ever had a loan from Barclays (or indeed from any 
other bank). But letters from Barclays debt collection agency (DCA) had been sent to her 
address  to a person with the same surname, but a slightly different given name. They had 
nothing to do with her. She had to contact Barclays several times to get this sorted out. And 
even after she had done that, the DCA continued to sent letters. She said her credit rating 
had been affected. She said she had suffered a lot of stress and inconvenience, and it 
affected her mental health, especially in the period of the pandemic. She said Barclays 
should suffer a financial penalty for what happened.
Barclays apologised. They accepted the loan was not Mrs Cs, and the letters shouldnt have 
been sent. They offered compensation of £150.
Mrs C didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. She said it wasnt about the 
amount of compensation, but rather she would like a gift  and wanted a bean to cup coffee 
machine with an approximate cost of £1,000.
Our investigator said that while Barclays had offered compensation of £150, he thought they 
should pay £300  because the issues had gone on for too long, and Barclays shouldve put 
things right when Mrs C first contacted them. He said it was unlikely that Mrs Cs credit rating 
had been affected  as the names on the loan and letters were slightly different to Mrs C. 
But Barclays had offered to look at this if Mrs C came forward with evidence that this had 
happened.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mrs C didnt. She asked that an ombudsman 
look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair 
decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We dont 
take sides. And Ive looked at all the evidence here in coming to a decision. Nor are we the 
regulator of Barclays  thats the role of the FCA. So, on Mrs Cs point about a financial 
penalty  that is not something that falls within our responsibility.
I can appreciate how worrying and stressful this must have been for Mrs C  the loan wasnt 
hers. And I can see that at least nine letters were sent to her address between December 
2020 and December 2021  albeit to someone with the same surname but a slightly different 
given name. I can see and appreciate that matters were made worse by the fact that Mrs C 
contacted Barclays on several occasions and Barclays said they would stop the letters  but 
didnt.
Barclays have accepted their error, apologised, and agreed to pay £300 compensation  
following our investigators view. But Mrs C wants a coffee machine instead  with a value of 
around £700 to £1,000. 
In thinking about the level of compensation here, our service has set out criteria for deciding 
the right level of award. We say an award of up to £300 might be suitable where there have 
been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort 
out. I think its fair to say that what happened here falls into this definition  especially as 
things went on for a long period of time. 
It's not within our process to provide a coffee machine to Mrs C, nor can we ask Barclays to 
do so  we only specify monetary awards. So, Im afraid this isnt something we can do  but 
I hope that the award of £300 will help Mrs C buy the machine she wants.
Mrs C has said her credit rating has been affected. Barclays have offered to address this if 
she sends them a copy of her credit file showing the impact. I think thats a reasonable offer 
from Barclays.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2022. If Mrs C accepts, she should provide her bank 
account details for the compensation to be paid to her.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman