DRN-3816644
The complaint
Mr B complains about CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NVs settlement of his  
private medical insurance claim. My references to CIGNA include its agents. 
What happened
From January 2018 Mr B had private global medical insurance, silver level, insured by 
CIGNA. The policy renewed each 31 December.
The background of this complaint is well known to the parties, but very briefly on 29 August 
2020 Mr B had a very serious accident in the USA and had extensive private medical 
treatment. He claimed on the policy for his medical costs. CIGNA accepted the claim and 
paid some of Mr Bs costs. Mr Bs complaint to us is that CIGNA didnt pay all of his CT scan 
or physiotherapy costs or the ambulance costs.
CIGNA said it had paid for the treatment in line with Mr Bs policy terms and limits as the 
policy limit for physiotherapy was $2,500 and the policy limit for a CT scan was $5,000. 
CIGNA also said it had paid the full cost of the ambulance transferring Mr B from the 
intensive care unit (ICU) to the rehabilitation centre.
Mr B complained to us. In summary he said his policy document showed the silver level 
policy limits were $5,000 for physiotherapy and $10,000 for a CT scan. And CIGNA had only 
partly paid the ambulance cost transferring him from the ICU to the rehabilitation centre and 
hadnt paid any of the cost of the initial ambulance to the hospital on the 29 August 2020. 
Ultimately our investigator said CIGNA acted fairly in assessing Mr Bs claim against the 
policy limits it referred to. The policy limits Mr B referred to applied to his policy from 
31 December 2020, which was after Mr Bs treatment. But our investigator said CIGNA 
should reassess the claim for the two different ambulance costs in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
CIGNA accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr B remained unhappy and said 
CIGNA had hidden the dates on the policy documents. The complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry guidance says CIGNA must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
must not unreasonably decline a claim.
I think CIGNA fairly and reasonably applied the policy limits it referred to when it assessed 
Mr Bs claim but it must reassess the two ambulance costs. So Im partly upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy limits CIGNA referred to were in the policy document published in May 2018. The 
policy limits Mr B referred to were in the policy document published September 2020, which 
was just after his admission into hospital. However, the September 2020 policy terms and 
limits wouldnt have been in force for Mr B until his policy renewed on 31 December 2020.
Both versions of the policy documents say:
Subject to the terms of this policy, we will pay for the following costs related to your
claim:
Costs as described in the list of benefits section of this Customer Guide as applicable
on the date(s) of the beneficiarys treatment.
So the policy limits that applied to Mr Bs treatment costs were those in force for his policy at 
the date of his treatment. 
The policy document published in September 2020 didnt apply to Mr B until his policy 
renewal on 31 December 2020 and Ive seen no evidence that he had any of the treatment 
claimed for on or after 31 December 2020. As Mr Bs claimed for treatment was between 
29 August 2020 and 30 December 2020 the policy limits applicable to his treatment were 
those for his policy from 31 December 2019 to 30 December 2020 policy, which were the 
limits published in May 2018.
Im satisfied CIGNA acted within the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in applying the 
$2,500 limit for physiotherapy treatment and the $5,000 limit for a CT scan to Mr Bs claim.
The date of publication is on the last page of each policy document. I appreciate the date 
isnt prominent to a policyholder. But I think its more likely than not that Mr B only received 
the policy terms published in September 2020 when he received his policy documents 
around the date of his policy renewal on 31 December 2020, which was after he had 
treatment. Even if Mr B received the policy terms published in September 2020 around that 
time theres no evidence that he only had the amount of physiotherapy he had, or had a CT 
scan, because he thought the higher limits applied to his treatment costs.
The policy terms relevant to Mr Bs claim say:
Where it is medically necessary, (CIGNA) will pay for a local ambulance to transport a 
beneciary:
from the scene of an accident or injury to a hospital;
from one hospital to another.
The invoice received for the ambulance for Mr Bs transfer from the ICU to the rehabilitation 
centre totalled $1,147.5. CIGNA said it paid the discounted amount of $490.8, which is 
supported by the invoice provided by the transport provider. But the transport provider then 
contacted Mr B to pay the remaining $656.7.
As the policy terms cover the full ambulance cost of transfer from one hospital to another 
CIGNA should reassess Mr Bs claim for that cost in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. If CIGNA believes the transport providers cost isnt reasonable CIGNA should 
negotiate with the transport provider directly. Under the policy terms Mr B shouldnt have to 
pay any of those ambulance costs.
Ive not seen any evidence why CIGNA didnt pay the cost of the ambulance that took  Mr B 
to the hospital after his accident. The policy terms cover the costs of an ambulance to a 
hospital from the scene of an accident or the policyholders home. So CIGNA should 
reassess Mr Bs claim for that cost in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.Putting things right
CIGNA must reassess Mr Bs claim for the ambulance costs that Ive detailed below in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. 
I require CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to reassess Mr Bs claim for the 
costs of the ambulance that took him to hospital on 29 August 2020 and the ambulance for 
Mr Bs transfer from the ICU to the rehabilitation centre in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman