DRN-3643714
The complaint
Mr M says that Santander UK Plc irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint is about a loan provided by Santander. The loan was for £10,000 over a 
term of 5 years and was advanced in February 2020.
Mr M complains that Santander irresponsibly lent to him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think that Santander had lent 
irresponsibly because the checks carried out by Santander before it decided to lend to Mr M 
didnt suggest that the lending was likely to be unsustainable and unaffordable.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the relevant key rules, guidance and good industry practice are set out on his services 
website.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve caried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr M could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of things, such as the amount  being lent, 
the length of the agreement, the frequency and amount of repayments, the total amount 
repayable and what Santander knew about Mr M at the time he applied for the loan.
I can see that Mr M applied for the loan online and stated that his net monthly income was 
£1100 and that his monthly outgoings were £400. This left monthly disposable income of 
£700, before the monthly cost of the loan of £279.
As part of its checks, Santander estimated Mr Ms monthly expenditure. It estimated 
outgoings of £249 for accommodation (based on being a rental tenant)) and living costs of 
£351 (based on being a single applicant with no dependants). Mr M had no existing 
borrowing at the time he made the application.
I can see from the figures that Santander estimated Mr Ms outgoings to be £600, which was 
more than the £400 stated by Mr M in his application. Taking into account the cost of the 
new loan repayments at £279 per month, this left Mr M with monthly disposable income of 
£221.
Santander used all of the information to calculated Mr Ms disposable income and made an 
assessment that the loan was affordable.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Santander were reasonable and 
proportionate. There was nothing to suggest that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr M.
Mr M has said that he may have provided an inaccurate figure for his monthly income. Hes 
told this service that his monthly income from his pension is around £700. He thinks that 
Santander shouldve checked his bank statements to verify his income.
Ive thought about whether Santander shouldve carried out further checks to validate Mr Ms 
income. Theres no requirement for Santander to do this, unless any of the checks it carried 
out showed that there was a reason to do so. For instance, it might be reasonable to expect 
a lender to validate income for a customer who has high levels of existing consumer credit 
repayments and a low income. But this isnt the case here. Santanders checks showed that 
Mr M didnt have any other borrowing. The checks showed that Mr M had enough disposable 
income after the loan repayments were taken into account. Im satisfied that the checks 
caried out by Santander here were reasonable and proportionate.
Mr M has provided some bank statements. Ive reviewed these  but Im not saying that 
Santander shouldve obtained these at the time of the loan application for the reasons Ive 
explained above. The statements show that Mr Ms income is less than he declared to 
Santander, and that he transfers all of his income to a third party. Whilst this shows that Mr 
M didnt have any disposable income at the time he applied for the loan, this isnt something 
Santander ought reasonably to have been aware of.
In conclusion, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I dont think Santander lent irresponsibly 
to Mr M. the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate, and it made a fair 
lending decision based on the outcome of the checks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman