DRN-3807778
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt waive their early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage in 2022.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J had a mortgage with Santander that had been on the standard variable rate 
since 2014.
They divorced in February 2017, and their finances were settled by way of a court order in 
April 2017. That order said that Mr J was to maintain the mortgage payments, and that the 
property should be sold on the fifth anniversary of the date of the order.
In the meantime, Mr J approached Santander for a new preferential rate on their mortgage. 
Mr J spoke to the Santander adviser on 28 March and an offer was issued the same day. 
The new rate was fixed at 1.99% until 2 July 2022, and an ERC of 5% of the balance would 
be payable if the mortgage was repaid before then. Mr J and Mrs J signed to accept the 
terms of the mortgage offer on 20 April and 5 April 2017 respectively.
In March 2022 the property was sold and Santander charged an ERC of around £11,000.
As Santander wouldnt waive the charge, Mr J and Mrs J made a complaint which Santander 
didnt uphold.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators findings and so it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr J and Mrs J wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr J and Mrs Js mortgage was 
repaid, there was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the 
mortgage to be repaid if Mr J and Mrs J paid an ERC. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr J and Mrs Js particular situation. When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Mr J and Mrs J; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr J and Mrs J 
knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the 
mortgage before 2 July 2022. 
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Mr J and Mrs J ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Santander has previously provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs 
of this tranche of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept 
evidence in confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information 
Santander has provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in 
confidence and so I wont be disclosing it to Mr J and Mrs J. 
The information from Santander shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what Santander has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the 
ERC. 
Mr J and Mrs J have told us they had no option but to sell their house and redeem the 
mortgage due to a court order. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr J and Mrs J found themselves in, but their situation wasnt as unusual as they think. Many customers 
have to sell their homes (some for similar reasons, and others for other equally valid 
reasons). It would be highly unfair for Santander to treat Mr J and Mrs J any differently from 
how it would treat any other customer that has to sell their home whilst there is an ERC on 
their mortgage. 
Having listened to the calls from when Mr J and Mrs J took out this new fixed rate Mr J didnt 
disclose to Santander that there was a risk they might have to repay the mortgage before the 
end of the fixed rate (and hence ERC) period. In fact, he was asked whether he expected 
any changes to their family circumstances and answered no. 
He was later asked in that same call you spoke to us a while back there, and you were in 
the process of maybe separating. Are you and your wife no longer together? which he 
answered  we are and arent. But were both responsible for this current mortgage while 
the childs at home 
That was the point that Mr J should have disclosed the fact the divorce had been finalised a 
month earlier, and that they were currently going through the legal process to finalise their 
finances. Had he done so, Santander would have been able to build that information into the 
advice it was giving and it is likely it would have then said the five-year fixed rate might not 
have been suitable for them for exactly the reason this complaint has been made; an ERC 
would be incurred if the house was sold before 2 July 2022.
Mr J was also given the options of a two-year fixed rate, or a three-year fixed rate, so this 
wasnt the only option available as Mr J and Mrs J have claimed.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied: 
Santander was entitled to charge Mr J and Mrs J the ERC set out in their mortgage 
contract when they repaid their mortgage early. 
When taking out the product, Mr J and Mrs J didnt disclose to Santander that they 
were divorced and in the process of finalising their finances in court, the court order 
of which led them to sell the property during the ERC period.
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Mr J and Mrs Js individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type. 
Santander didnt have to treat Mr J and Mrs J any differently to any of its other 
customers that redeem their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force.
For all the reasons given I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman