DRN-3994638
The complaint
Mr L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his theft claim under his travel 
insurance and about its service. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr L had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy insured by Great Lakes. He claimed on 
the policy for a bag that was stolen while he was sitting on a beach during a long layover for 
his return flight. 
Mr L said he had kept the bag close to him and he didnt leave the bag unattended so he 
didnt know how anyone had managed to steal it. Hed noticed the bag had gone when he 
and his partner were leaving the beach to get a taxi to the airport for the return flight. Mr L 
said he didnt report the theft to the police in the relevant country as he had to catch his flight 
so he reported the theft to the police in the UK on his return and gave Great Lakes the 
reports reference number.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said as Mr L didnt see the bag being stolen it was 
reasonable for it to consider that the bag wasnt in his sight and out of his personal control, 
so the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. Also Mr L hadnt provided a police report to 
support his claim, as required by the policy terms. Great Lakes accepted Mr Ls concern that 
it had delayed in assessing the claim and apologised.
Mr L complained to us. He wants Great Lakes to pay his claim in full and pay him 
compensation for his time and stress in dealing with it. He also wants Great Lakes to be 
investigated about its claim handling by an independent body.
Our investigator said Great Lakes unreasonably declined the claim. She recommended it 
pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions plus interest.
Mr L accepts our investigators recommendation. 
Great Lakes disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It sent us a photo of the bag 
and queried how a bag of that size could have been stolen without Mr L realising if the bag 
had been close to him at all times. It objected to having to pay for items if Mr L had no proof 
of ownership of those items. It also said that when making the claim Mr L had put on the 
form that hed been sitting on a beach, not in a beach bar as our investigator had mentioned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think Great Lakes unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy terms cover theft of personal baggage, subject to terms, conditions and the policy 
limits. The policy also lists when theft of personal baggage isnt covered:
Any loss or theft of your personal baggage that you do not report to the Police within 
24 hours of discovery or as soon as possible after that and for which you do not get a 
written report from them
.
Any loss or theft of your personal baggage left out of sight and out of personal control 
in public places where you are not in a position to prevent unauthorised interference 
with your property e.g. station, airport, restaurant, beach, etc.
I think Mr L made a reasonable decision not to go to the police station abroad to report the 
theft which would have meant missing his return flight and incurring additional costs. I dont 
think Mr L prejudiced Great Lakes position as its highly unlikely that reporting the theft to 
the police abroad would have made catching the thief and Mr Ls items more likely. In the 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for Mr L to report the theft to the police in the UK, 
and that he did so as soon as possible as the policy requires. 
Mr L didnt provide a police report, as the policy terms require, but thats because the UK 
police told him it wouldnt send him the report but would send the report direct to 
Great Lakes upon Great Lakes request. Mr L told Great Lakes what the police had told him 
and gave it the report reference number. On the evidence I have it was reasonable that Mr L 
didnt send a police report to Great Lakes and hed given the information it required to get 
the report. 
In the circumstances I think Great Lakes unreasonably rejected the claim on the basis that 
Mr L didnt provide a written police report.
In Mr Ls complaint form and his description of the incident to us in further detail he said the 
bag was stolen while he was on the beach. He didnt say the bag was stolen in a beach bar. 
Im satisfied that there are no substantive discrepancies in what Mr L put on the claim form 
and what he said to us about the incident.
From what Mr Ls said, which I accept, theres no evidence that he left his bag out of sight or 
out of his personal control. I havent seen any evidence that Mr L told Great Lakes he left the 
bag with another traveller, as Great Lakes suggests. And if he had asked his partner to look 
after the bag for a moment I think that would have been reasonable.
Great Lakes says the bag cant have been in Mr Ls sight or been close to him if he didnt 
notice a bag of that size being stolen. Ive seen the photo of the bag and it looks to be of 
medium size. I dont think the bag was so big that it was impossible for it to be stolen without 
Mr L noticing. And I dont think the bag being stolen must mean Mr L wasnt close to his bag 
and wasnt in a position to prevent the theft.
Great Lakes interpretation of the poilcy wording about the bag being out of sight means that  
Mr L would have needed to be looking at the bag at all times and I dont think thats a 
reasonable interpretation. Im satisfied from what Mr Ls said that he took reasonable care of 
the bag, he didnt leave it unattended, it was in his personal control and he was in a position 
to prevent unauthorised interference with the bag even though it was stolen. 
Im satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to pay the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits plus interest as Ive detailed below. 
That doesnt mean Great Lakes has to pay for all the items Mr Ls claimed for, the settlement 
is still subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions which detail proof of ownership 
and other relevant issues as well as the policy limits.
Mr L was frustrated by Great Lakes poor service and Great Lakes accepts there were 
delays in assessing the claim. There looks to be a delay of about three and a half months 
between Mr L making the claim and Great Lakes sending its final response letter which 
I dont think is wholly unreasonable. Great Lakes apologised for its service and I dont think its delays were so unreasonable for me to make a compensation award. Mr L accepted our 
investigators recommendation which didnt include a compensation award.
Mr L asked that we order an investigation by an independent body into Great Lakes claim 
handling. Were not the regulator and we dont have statutory power to order such an 
investigation.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mr Ls claim subject to the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits plus interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE  to pay Mr Ls claim subject to 
the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman