DRN-4152534
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted unreasonably when it asked 
him to stop using his personal bank account for business purposes. He wants Barclays to 
reverse its decision.
What happened
Mr M has held a personal bank account with Barclays for many years. He is a sole trader 
and uses the account for personal and business transactions.
In December 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr M to say that it had noticed business transactions 
being undertaken using his personal bank account. Barclays said that in 2017 it updated its 
terms and conditions to confirm that operating a business through a personal account was 
not allowed. 
Barclays told Mr M that if he already had a Barclays business account, he should move his 
business transactions to that account. And that if he didnt hold a Barclays business account, 
he should plan to move his business transactions. Barclays gave Mr M 30 days to make the 
necessary changes or risk having his account closed. Barclays credited Mr Ms account with 
£70 to apologise for any inconvenience.
When Mr M complained to this service, he said that 30 days wasnt a reasonable timescale 
due to the Christmas period and the volume of direct debit and standing orders. Mr M said 
that clients use his personal account to pay any fees and that HMRC has the account details 
for tax purposes. 
Mr M said that some bills he pays using the account are for home and work purposes. Mr M 
thinks that given five years has passed since Barclays made the change and as hes 
continued to use the account for business and personal use, Barclays is now estopped from 
relying on the amended terms. Mr M also said that Barclays didnt draw his attention to the 
change in terms. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. In summary, the 
investigator said the terms state Mr Ms personal account should not be used for business 
purposes. The investigator thought 30 days notice was fair and pointed out that Mr M 
already holds a business current account with Barclays so wouldnt need to apply for a new 
account. The investigator said that £70 compensation was more than hed have asked 
Barclays to pay.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigation outcome. He said the investigator hadnt dealt with 
the points he made about estoppel, the nature of his business and the duty imposed on 
businesses to draw important provisions to the attention of their customers. Mr M thought 30 
days wasnt adequate notice. He couldnt see any reason why business use could not be 
coupled with personal use.
The investigator obtained some further information from Barclays and sent a second 
investigation outcome dealing with the changes to Mr Ms personal account. The investigator 
was satisfied that when Barclays wrote to Mr M in 2017 it highlighted the fact that a personal 
account should not be used for business purposes. 
The investigator told Mr M that his circumstances as a self-employed individual hadnt been 
considered as the same terms apply to all personal account holders. 
Mr M still disagrees with the investigation outcome. He says Barclays arbitrarily designated 
his account as a personal account after many years of him using it for all transactions, be 
they personal or business. 
Mr M says that Barclays has a statutory duty to know their customer which means it 
shouldve considered him on an individual basis and reached a different conclusion. 
Mr M says the existence of a business bank account is irrelevant as it was only opened to 
help secure financial assistance during the Covid pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im realise that Ive summarised Mr Ms complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. 
Mr M says that the nature of his self-employed business means that closing his bank 
account would wreck his practice but Barclays has only said it will do this if he doesnt move 
his business transactions. 
I appreciate that it will be disruptive to Mr M to have to move standing orders and direct 
debits, as well as notifying clients and other third parties. But the terms of Mr Ms account 
state that a personal account cant be used for business purposes. 
Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr M notice of the change to its terms in January 2017. The 
letter that it sent to Mr M includes a clarification of what the account can be used for which 
says:
We have made it clear that this is a personal current account and is not to be used 
for business purposes. If we believe your personal account is being used for 
business, we may move it on to our Business Current Account or close the account if 
necessary.
So, I think Barclays did enough to draw Mr Ms attention to the fact that he shouldnt use his 
personal account for business purposes. And that if he breached this term, Barclays could 
ask him to move to a business account or close his personal account. 
Although Mr M was able to carry on using the account for both business and personal use 
following notification of the clarification, I dont find this means that Barclays is now 
prevented or estopped from relying on the terms of the account. 
Barclays gave Mr M 30 days notice and I consider this was reasonable, particularly as he 
already has a Barclays business account which he could have used. 
If it was the case that Mr M had tried to separate his business transactions but found it 
difficult to do so within 30 days, he could have raised this with Barclays. And I wouldve expected Barclays to respond fairly. But that isnt what happened so Ive no reason to find 
that Barclays has been unreasonable when dealing with Mr M.
I accept that there may be occasions in the future when clients or third parties mistakenly 
use Mr Ms personal rather than business account. If this happens, I expect Barclays to 
respond fairly so that Mr M has the chance to swap them over if necessary. 
Mr M thinks that the nature of his business means that Barclays should treat him differently 
to other customers. As I need to avoid inadvertently identifying Mr M in my decision, Ive 
decided not to refer to his job title. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered the point that 
Mr M makes. Having done so, I dont intend any disrespect but I cant see that his job puts 
him in a different position to most kinds of self-employed individuals who work from both 
home and office and therefore need to juggle business and personal expenditure for banking 
and tax purposes. So, I dont find Barclays made an error in the way that it dealt with Mr M.  
Barclays previously credited Mr Ms account with £70 to apologise for any inconvenience 
and upset caused by its request to separate out his business transactions. I consider this 
was fair so I dont require Barclays to take any further action in response to Mr Ms 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman