DRN-4276035
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr B made a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to Lloyds regarding a 
transaction relating to flights which was made in 2022. That issue has been dealt with 
separately by this service through an Ombudsmans decision.
Mr Bs complaint here is about how Lloyds have treated him since he raised his s75 claim, 
specifically notifying him of arrears on his credit card account, having its collections team 
contact him and it subsequently reducing his credit limit on his credit card account. So he 
complained to Lloyds about these issues, but it responded saying it hadnt done anything 
wrong. So Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, 
he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly regarding the management of the account. Mr B 
didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrears
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr B didnt make the monthly payments to his credit card 
for some time from November 2022 onward. As this is the case Lloyds has treated him fairly 
by recording those missing payments and applying charges and reporting this on his credit 
file as that fairly reflects what happened on his account. I appreciate Mr B feels Lloyds 
treated him unfairly regarding his S75 claim against the merchant in that case. But just 
because Mr B had a dispute with a merchant hed paid with his Lloyds card doesnt mean he 
doesnt have to pay what he owed Lloyds on a monthly basis as hed agreed with Lloyds 
when he agreed to have a credit card with Lloyds.
Collections
Mr B feels it unfair that after not paying his monthly payments, Lloyds having contacted him 
a number of times about him not making the payments he was obliged to, Lloyds changed 
how it approached matters and passed his account to its collections team. How Lloyds 
manages its processes is for it to decide. However where an account holder doesnt make 
the payments as required (and agreed) on a number of occasions, I think it is fair for Lloyds 
to try other ways of getting the money it has credited to Mr B back.
Credit Limit
Subsequently Mr B has told this service that Lloyds reduced his credit limit. Lloyds it said it 
did this after reviewing his account and considering factors such as the management of the 
account. Lloyds is entitled to decide how and where it lends its money. And it is also entitled 
to review these decisions fairly. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of it treating Mr B unfairly 
here. Mr B spent on his Lloyds card and then didnt repay Lloyds as hed agreed and was 
bound to do under the agreement he has with Lloyds. I can understand why it didnt want to 
risk lending more money that might not be paid back.
Mr B has said he didnt knowingly do anything fraudulent to be treated like a criminal. I 
dont think Lloyds has treated him like a criminal. It has acted as Id expect it to act where 
repeated monthly payments arent made on a credit card account and arrears are in place. 
Mr B says hes not been involved in any fraudulent activities. Ive not seen persuasive 
evidence of Lloyds saying that he has. But throughout Mr Bs account holding hes been 
required to manage his account and make monthly payments. And I can see for a number of 
months he didnt make such payments. So I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong by 
asking him to do so or recording that he didnt pay when he was meant to. Mr B says hes 
had an account for a long time. This is clearly the case. But that doesnt change that he has 
to pay back the money hes borrowed from Lloyds. Mr B says what happened here has 
impacted his family and his relationships and his health. Im very sorry to hear this and I 
hope Mr B gets the help he needs. Nevertheless Mr B used his Lloyds card to borrow money 
for flights and he hasnt been paying Lloyds back for this borrowed money. Just because he 
has a dispute with the merchant he paid the flights for, doesnt mean he gets not to pay 
Lloyds back the money he borrowed from it.
Mr B has said he cannot afford to pay this money back and has asked where this leaves 
him. Mr B should liaise with Lloyds about any financial difficulties he has in paying this 
money back. Lloyds is required to treat those in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But it is also entitled to try to get its money back also. I strongly suggest Mr 
B speaks to Lloyds about how he can repay the money he owes and get his account back to 
a mutually agreeable state of affairs by working together with Lloyds. Having considered this 
matter I think Lloyds has treated Mr B fairly. As a consequence Mr Bs complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman