DRN-1894160
 
The complaint
Miss B says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold her 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
The PPI policy was taken out alongside Miss Bs mortgage in 2004. She paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicator's opinions, so the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued my provisional decision in April 2020. Heres what I said:
Im thinking of not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss B and Santander agree the policy was arranged during a meeting. Santander 
should have taken reasonable steps to ensure Miss B was made aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI. Santander hasnt been able to give us any information from the time of 
sale, such as an application form for the mortgage or PPI. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should be upheld because without any information from the time of the sale, 
Santander couldnt demonstrate that Miss B had been given a choice as to whether to take 
out the policy or not.
But I disagree. It is understandable that Santander no longer holds any documentation 
from this time as the sale all took place around 16 years ago and businesses arent expected 
to keep records forever. So, Ive considered Miss Bs comments along with what we 
know  about how Santander sold this type of policy to decide whats more likely to have 
happened.
From what we know, it looks like Miss B would have ticked to agree to the PPI on 
her mortgage application and then would have completed a separate application form for 
the policy. And Santander normally made it clear to customers they had a choice about PPI 
and got their agreement to it. What Miss B has told us isnt enough to make me think 
Santander didnt follow its normal process here.
So overall, I think its more likely Santander made it clear to Miss B that she had a 
choice about the PPI and she  at the time - agreed to it.
Miss B said she couldnt remember whether she was advised to take the policy or not. 
And Santander says it recommended the policy to her. From what we know about sales 
during this time, they were usually done so on an advised basis and as part of the sales 
process, Santander should have taken reasonable steps to make sure the policy was right 
for Miss Bs circumstances at the time. I think that it was, and I say this because:
 
Miss B was eligible for the policy.She wouldn't have been caught by any of the other things the policy didnt cover  
like unusual employment arrangements. So, there was nothing to stop her claiming 
the full benefit of the policy if she needed to.
Miss B says she wouldve got some sick pay benefits from her employer. She also 
says she had savings she couldve relied upon. But the policy would have covered 
Miss Bs mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if she was too unwell to work or if 
she became unemployed. So, the policy could have still been of use to her. And it 
would have paid in addition to these benefits meaning she could have used her sick 
pay and any savings she had to pay for other essential costs.
As we dont have any documents from the time of the sale, I dont know if Santander 
made the cost of the policy clear to Miss B. But looking at the information I have, I 
can see Miss B received a letter from Santander after the sale laying out all the costs 
so if it wasnt something that was affordable to her she could have queried it then. 
And from what I know about her circumstances, I havent seen anything substantial 
to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Miss B. Additionally she couldve cancelled 
it at any time, without further cost, if her situation changed, or she no longer wanted 
to pay for it.
Miss B was taking out a significant and long-term commitment, secured against her 
home, on her own. Given the consequences of not keeping up her mortgage 
repayments, I think having the security that her mortgage repayments could have 
been made if she was unable to works would have been important to her.
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss B, Santander shouldve also taken 
steps to give her clear information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted it. I 
dont know what steps Santander took to do this. And its possible some things werent 
explained
as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information would have changed
Miss Bs decision. I think she would have still bought it for the same reasons I think 
the policy was suitable for her.
So, I dont think Miss B has lost out from anything Santander might have done wrong. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI. But it has paid 
back some cost of the PPI to Miss B because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
I asked everyone to come back with any further points they wanted me to consider. Neither 
party has responded.
My findings
Ive now reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Bs complaint.Having done this, and as no one had anything else for me to consider, my decision remains 
the same. I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6July2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman