DRN-3917336
The complaint
Mr N complains about an arrears notice sent by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
A representative acting for Mr N requested copies of documents in relation his loan 
agreement with RBS. The business was able to provide various documents, including 
statements showing Mr N had made repayments over an extended period. But RBS wasnt 
able to provide an original or reconstituted copy of Mr Ns original credit agreement. RBS 
wrote to Mr Ns representative in September 2021 and confirmed the credit agreement 
couldnt be provided. 
In December 2021 RBS sent Mr N an arrears notice. The arrears notice explained RBS is 
required to issue them every six months and included a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
factsheet that provided general information about debts. Within the factsheet, it notes the 
lender could take legal action to recover the debt. 
The issue was raised as a complaint with RBS in January 2022 and it issued various 
responses. In short, Mr Ns representative said the arrears notice had contravened CONC 
(industry rules) that say a business has to make it clear a debt isnt legally enforceable in 
court. Mr Ns representative said they thought the arrears notice and FCA factsheet failed to 
make it clear the debt was unenforceable. RBS responses acknowledged the debt is not 
legally enforceable but explained it still intended to pursue the balance from Mr N. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ns complaint. The investigator said that some of 
the issues raised were out of time as they werent referred to us within six months of RBS 
final responses. The investigator agreed we could look at Mr Ns complaint about the 
contents of the arrears notice RBS sent in December 2021. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint and wasnt persuaded RBS had made 
mistakes or treated him unfairly when issuing the arrears notice and factsheet. Mr Ns 
representative asked to appeal and said RBS actions went against a number of sections of 
CONC 13.1.6. The representative said RBS was aware the agreement is unenforceable so 
had to ensure all communications made that clear and didnt imply otherwise. As Mr N asked 
to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying Im aware Mr Ns representative made a number complaint 
submissions to RBS over the course of several months. Our investigator explained some of 
those issues were out of time so were unable to comment. In this decision, Im focusing on 
the arrears notice issued in December 2021 and Mr Ns complaint that it went against the 
provisions set out in CONC. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything 
on file. Ive set out the background above in brief as all parties broadly agree about the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr Ns representative has told us they think RBS arrears notice goes against various 
provisions set out in CONC 13.1.6. In particular, Mr Ns representative said CONC 13.1.6(4) 
notes any request for payment or communication relating to a payment (other than a 
statement issued in accordance with the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)) should make it clear 
the debt is unenforceable. Here, the arrears notice RBS sent was something its obliged to 
send as noted in the CCA. Ive looked at the wording and whilst I understand it doesnt say 
the debt is unenforceable, it doesnt make a direct request for payment either. The arrears 
notice does give information about how a payment can be made. But thats not the same as 
asking Mr N to specifically make payments. 
Mr Ns representative has also pointed out that CONC 13.1.6(8) says where a firm is aware 
that an agreement is unenforceable it should make that clear. It adds that any 
communication that implies that a debt is enforceable when its not, would be misleading. Mr 
Ns representative has noted the FCA factsheet says the lender could take legal action. I 
agree that RBS arrears notice didnt say the debt is unenforceable. And I agree the FCA 
factsheet says the lender could take legal action. But, overall, Im not persuaded that RBS 
has treated Mr N unfairly or misrepresented its position. Ill explain why. 
Whilst we take all the relevant laws and regulations into account when considering how to 
resolve a complaint, our decisions are made on a fair and reasonable basis. That means 
well consider how any errors or omissions have impacted the consumer. Here, I understand 
Mr Ns representatives argument that the arrears notice doesnt comply with the relevant 
CONC provisions hes set out. But I think its fair to note that RBS had already confirmed to 
Mr N and his representative that the debt is unenforceable. RBS correspondence with Mr 
Ns representative noted that point several months before the arrears notice was issued. So 
Im satisfied that RBS had already confirmed whether the debt was enforceable when it sent 
the arrears notice. 
In addition, I understand the FCA factsheet notes that the lender could take legal action. But 
RBS has to send the factsheet out along with the arrears notice. And the factsheet is issued 
by the FCA so its not something RBS can change. I agree that it would be clearer if RBS 
arrears notice specifically noted the debt was unenforceable and its arguable that approach 
would be more compliant in terms of CONC. But Im satisfied that Mr N and his 
representative were aware of the status of the debt and that it cant be enforced in court. So 
whilst I note all the arguments made, I havent been persuaded that RBS acted unfairly in 
this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, but for the reasons Ive noted above I havent been persuaded 
RBS treated him unfairly when it sent the arrears notice. As a result, Im not telling RBS to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman