DRN-3547926
The complaint
Mr A complains about Society of Lloyds (SoL) handling of claim he made under his 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 there was a fire at Mr As premises. He says he received a payment for the 
fixtures and fittings, stock, rent and loss of business. But he says he didnt receive a 
payment for the wages of his staff while he was unable to trade. Mr A says that when he 
took this policy out, he was told by his broker this would be covered by the policy. After the 
fire, Mr A says this was reinforced by his broker, so he ensured his staff wages were paid.
However, he was later told the policy didnt cover this. 
Mr A made a complaint to SoL. He was unhappy with the time taken to settle the claim. It 
issued its final response and said it acknowledged that the service provided had fallen short 
of the standard Mr A should have expected. It increased a previously offered award to £300. 
Unhappy with SoLs response, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and SoL increased its offer of compensation. It also offered to 
include interest on the delayed payments for the claim. Our investigator thought that was 
fair. But she said SoL wasnt required to pay for the staff wages under the policy. Mr A didnt 
agree with this, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says hes satisfied with the increased offer of compensation and interest on the 
payments SoL made. It follows Ive only considered whether SoL has acted fairly in declining 
Mr As claim for loss of wages. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but Im satisfied SoL has acted 
in line with the policy terms. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the sections of the policy Mr A indicated he believes could cover staff wages. 
The first is under the business interruption section and says:
Gross Profit
The amount by which:
a) The sum of the amount of the Turnover and the amounts of the closing stock and 
work in progress shall exceed
b) The sum of the amount of the opening stock and work in progress and the 
amount of the Uninsured Working Expenses
Note: The amounts of the opening and closing sticks (including work in progress) 
shall be arrived at in accordance with Your usual accounting methods due provision 
being made for depreciation. 
I dont agree with Mr As interpretation of this clause. I cant see that it makes any reference 
to, or allows for, staff wages being recoverable under this section of the policy. Ive gone on 
to consider the other section that may be relevant, and Ive set this out below:
2.2 Essential Employees
This Section includes loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the 
Business carried on at the Premises following loss of an Employee from Your service as a 
result of:
a)
i) death of the Employee;
ii) bodily injury which, in the opinion of the Insurers medical officer, will in all 
likelihood prevent the employee from carrying out their usual employment or 
usual occupation
b) The Employee winning a prize providing their win exceeds £100,000
I cant see in this clause that the policy provides cover for paying employee wages when the 
business was unable to trade following the fire. Im satisfied the policy terms are clear in 
setting out why Mr As claim for the loss of wages he says were paid while he was unable to 
trade isnt covered under either section hes referred to. 
I appreciate Mr A has heavily relied on some assurances he says he received from his loss 
assessor and feels on this basis his claim for loss of wages should be covered. But I can 
only ask SoL to pay what is covered under the policy. The policy Mr A took out doesnt 
provide cover for loss of wages in the circumstances he sadly experienced. As the claim isnt 
covered by the policy, Im not going to require SoL to make a payment to Mr A for the lost 
wages.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman