DRN-2723755
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) recorded a missed payment 
on his credit file in error, after wrongly renewing his insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr K told Admiral he didnt wish to renew his motor insurance policy with them 
before his existing policy expired. However, due to an error, his policy was renewed in any 
event, and this unfortunately resulted in a missed payment being wrongly recorded on Mr Ks 
credit file. 
In response to the complaint, Admiral apologised for their error and offered Mr K £25 
compensation to say sorry for the upset they had caused him. They said they couldnt 
arrange for the incorrect information to be removed directly, however, they suggested Mr K 
raise a dispute with the credit reference agency (CRA) they had shared the incorrect 
information with, as they would provide their consent for his credit file to be updated through 
this channel. 
This didnt resolve things for Mr K as he said Admiral should be able to fix their error directly 
with the CRA, and he didnt think the £25 compensation offer was fair. He also said this 
issue had stopped him applying for a mortgage, and £1,000 compensation should therefore 
be paid. 
In February 2021, Admiral informed our service they would now ask the CRA to update      
Mr Ks credit file directly, as although they didnt have a process in place to arrange this 
previously, they were now able to do so. They havent since provided any evidence to show 
theyve followed this process, or that Mr Ks credit file has actually been updated.
Our investigator then considered the complaint and said she thought Mr K may have been 
able to arrange for the incorrect information to have been removed much faster, if hed 
raised a dispute with the CRA as Admiral had suggested. However, she also concluded that 
Admiral should reasonably have been able to do this for him by contacting the CRA directly. 
She acknowledged Mr Ks comments about applying for a mortgage but concluded £50 
compensation in total would be fair.
Admiral didnt respond to our investigators opinion, and Mr K didnt accept it, so Ive 
considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for the reasons Ill 
now explain. 
Its understandable Mr K is upset Admiral wrongly recorded a missed payment on his credit 
file. He made it clear on two occasions that he didnt wish to renew his policy, so Admiral 
should reasonably have followed his instructions and made sure his policy wasnt renewed. 
If they had done this, his credit file wouldnt have been negatively impacted and there would 
be no reason for this complaint.
It is unclear why Admiral wasnt able to arrange for Mr Ks credit file to be updated with the 
CRA straight away. As they had asked for the information to be recorded in the first place, 
they should reasonably have had a process in place for correcting their error, other than 
asking Mr K to go out of his way and raise a dispute with the CRA. Im glad they eventually 
agreed to arrange for Mr Ks credit file to be updated directly in February 2021. However, it 
shouldnt have taken Admiral that long to agree to this, and I havent seen any evidence 
which shows the update has since taken place.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ks comment that hes delayed applying for a mortgage due 
to the incorrect information on his credit file. Hes also said this issue has unfortunately 
caused him to worry, and hes also struggled to sleep. This is understandable given the 
circumstances and I appreciate why this issue caused him to question the impact the 
incorrect information could have on any credit application. However, I also think he could 
have mitigated these concerns, by supplying any potential mortgage lender with a copy of 
Admirals final response letter, or by raising a dispute with the CRA as Admiral suggested. 
While Im satisfied it was ultimately Admirals responsibility to rectify their error directly, I 
think its likely the incorrect information would have been removed relatively quickly had     
Mr K contacted the CRA, as per Admirals suggestion. And, this would have allowed any 
mortgage application to proceed. 
I know Mr K feels Admiral wouldnt have consented to the information being removed in 
response to a dispute with the CRA. However, as Admiral had already accepted that the 
information was added in error and suggested that he raise a dispute with the CRA, I dont 
think this is likely to have been the case. Im also satisfied that raising a dispute with the 
CRA wouldnt have further damaged Mr Ks credit rating as hes suggested. Its for these 
reasons, I dont think I can fairly hold Admiral responsible for Mr Ks decision to delay 
applying for a mortgage. Im also satisfied Mr K hasnt been able to evidence any financial 
loss as a direct result of this issue. 
I appreciate Mr K feels strongly about this complaint, and he will be disappointed that I dont 
think the compensation should be significantly increased. However, having carefully 
considered everything that has taken place, and the impact of Admirals actions, I think £50 
is a fair amount to reflect the avoidable trouble and upset Admiral caused him to experience. 
The renewal of the policy and the incorrect information recorded on Mr Ks credit file has 
understandably caused some upset, and it is clear Admiral havent treated Mr K fairly, but 
Im not satisfied Admirals actions reasonably stopped Mr K from being able to apply for a 
mortgage, or that they were sufficiently severer to merit a £1,000 compensation award.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, I direct Admiral to arrange for the June 2020 missed payment 
marker to be removed from Mr Ks credit file, if they havent already done so. They should 
also pay Mr K £50 compensation in total to say sorry for the trouble and upset they caused 
him.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to settle the matter 
as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman