DRN-2200045
Complaint
Mr G complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia Britannia will not 
refund any of the commission it received from his payment protection insurance (PPI) 
premiums. 
Background
Mr G bought a stand- alone PPI policy in 1997 from Britannia. The PPI policy covered the 
repayments on a mortgage Mr G had with another lender, with an additional benefit amount 
to help him with his household bills. The policy wouldve paid out if Mr G was ever off work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
To be clear, Mr G has not referred a mis-sale complaint to our service but has only 
complained about the commission charged on his PPI premiums.  
Our adjudicator didnt think his complaint about commission should be upheld. Mr G didnt 
agree so the complaint has been passed on to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that, if a lender got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But the rules and guidance apply to lenders that sold PPI  and Britannia has confirmed that 
it did not lend any money to Mr G when it sold the PPI to him. As explained above, this was 
a stand-alone policy Britannia sold to cover Mr Gs mortgage repayments and household 
bills he had with other providers. 
So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
I appreciate Britannia sent a final response letter to Mr G and did not explain the above to 
him. In fact, I can see although it referred to his complaint about commission, it did not give 
an answer about whether it would refund any of the commission it charged. But while that 
may be the case, and I think Britannia couldve made things clearer for him, this doesnt alter 
the fact that Britannia isnt bound by the rules mentioned above.  
So Britannia doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr G paid for the PPI he had.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman