DRN-1879315
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms W say they were mis-sold regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policies by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
Mr and Ms W took out a joint mortgage with Nationwide in January 1991. At the same time 
they took out a regular premium MPPI policy in Mr Ws sole name to cover their repayments 
if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The policy wouldve 
covered their mortgage payments for up to 24 months per claim.
A few months later in 1991 Ms W also took out a MPPI policy and a further policy was taken 
in March 1992.
Mr W made a successful claim on his policy in 1992 following this Mr Ws policy was 
cancelled.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. In regards to the first 
policy sold in 1991 he thought because  Mr W had a successful claim on the policy and 
received more from the policy than it cost them  they hadnt lost out and so no further 
compensation was due.
In regards to the policies taken in Ms Ws name he thought because the policies were taken 
after the mortgage was granted they wouldve understood they had a choice in purchasing 
cover and that it wouldve provided a useful benefit to them. 
Mr and Ms W disagree. They say they were told it was mandatory to take out MPPI in order 
to get the mortgage and that they didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint.
The sales took place over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sales. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Nationwide needed to make it clear to Mr and Ms W that they had a choice in taking MPPI. 
Mr and Ms W havent provided any real specific details about the sales which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And Nationwide havent 
given us any of the documents from the time of the sales. So I dont know exactly what was 
discussed about MPPI or how it was presented.
From what Mr and Ms W have told us the policies were sold during meeting. I think its likely 
MPPI was discussed and because initially the policy was taken in Mr Ws name only - to 
cover a joint mortgage - they wouldve understood cover wasnt mandatory. As if it was, I 
would expect that both parties to the mortgage would have to be covered. 
So on balance, I think Nationwide wouldve made Mr and Ms W aware that MPPI was 
optional and that Mr and Ms W had MPPI policies taken at different times because they 
freely chose to take them out rather than anything else. 
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice about MPPI or that they didnt 
agree to buy it. Im also in agreement with our adjudicator and Im satisfied from the 
information Nationwide have provided that Mr and Ms W benefited substantially from the 
successful claim Mr W had on his policy. And because they received more from the policy 
than they paid for it - if I felt the policy had been mis-sold our approach is such that I wouldnt 
award any further compensation.
From what we know of Nationwide MPPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. 
And I havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What 
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend MPPI to Mr and Ms W, it just gave them 
information about MPPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. 
 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sales, I dont know if Nationwide did give 
all the information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I 
think Mr and Ms W wouldve still taken the policies if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sales:
 
They were both eligible for the policies.
 
It doesnt look like Ms W wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policies which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim. And we know Mr W had a successful claim on his policy.
 
Ms W says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings she could use to make her 
mortgage payments if she couldnt work. But as the sales werent advised it was up to 
Ms W to assess her own circumstances and needs and the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of any work benefits and savings and for potentially longer for up to 24 months 
per claim.   
 
So I think the policies wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Ms W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There is nothing to suggest the policies werent affordable to them and if they no 
longer wanted the cover they were able to cancel it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr and Ms 
W, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policies as it was of value to them.
So this means Mr and Ms W arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Nationwide.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman