DRN-2918122
The complaint
Mr T complains about Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltds (CCB) handling of his claims 
for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
  
What happened
Mr T instructed CCB to handle his claims for mis-sold PPI. He says the claims continued for 
some time during which he received no updates. Mr T was concerned about delays so he 
complained to CCB and they responded in March 2020 and apologised for the delay. They 
provided an update on each claim. They listed eight claims; five were marked as closed and 
the remaining three were still being progressed. Mr T wrote again and explained his medical 
situation made him vulnerable and also set out the impact the situation was having on him.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. CCB didnt provide any information in relation to 
the complaint points so she thought CCB should waive their fees for the outstanding claims 
and pay Mr T £150 compensation. CCB havent responded so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided CCB with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
CCB havent provided any information to our service apart from the final response letter, Im 
satisfied weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I 
must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mr T to have to 
continue waiting for an answer to his complaint.   
Theres no dispute here that Mr T has instructed CCB to handle claims against a number of 
lenders. The final response letter lists three claims which CCB are still progressing  two 
against Lender S and one against Lender E. They say they have up to date letters of 
authority and are awaiting a final response from the lenders. Despite chasers from Mr T and 
our investigator, CCB havent provided an update on these claims. Where a claims 
management company is acting on behalf of a customer, lenders will generally write to both 
parties with an outcome to the claim. Given Mr T hasnt heard directly from the lenders in the 
three outstanding claims, I think its unlikely a final response to the claim has been issued.   
Mr T has provided a letter he received from CCB in August 2018 which discusses a claim 
against Lender B. This claim hasnt been included in the list of claims included in CCBs final 
response letter. In the August 2018 letter, CCB say they have heard back from Lender B 
who are asking for an up to date letter of authority. CCB enclose a new letter of authority for 
Mr T to sign. Mr T says he signed the letter of authority and returned it to CCB. Mr T has 
also provided screenshots showing a request from CCB in January 2021 for Mr T to sign a 
form to allow Lender M to provide a final response to his claim. Mr T signs and returns the 
form. Im satisfied therefore that there are two additional claims which CCB are pursuing 
which arent listed in their final response letter. 
CCB havent provided any up to date information to show what progress has been made on 
these five claims and what stage theyre at. I can see Mr T and our investigator have chased 
for updates and information but CCB havent provided the information requested. The 
information I do have suggests some of the outstanding claims have been ongoing for a few 
years now. And, given that the deadline for submitting a claim to a lender was 29 August 
2019, its unclear what action CCB have taken on the outstanding claims since that deadline. 
Given that CCB havent provided any evidence to suggest the lenders are responsible for 
any delays, I dont think its unreasonable to hold CCB responsible for the delays. I can see 
CCB apologise for the delay in their final response letter so I uphold this part of the 
complaint. And, given that Mr T has provided evidence of him chasing for updates and CCB 
havent provided any evidence to show they have kept Mr T updated on the progress of the 
five claims and responded to his requests for information, I also uphold these complaints.  
Mr T says hes lost confidence in CCB and wishes to pursue the outstanding claims himself. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Mr T to take this position given the significant period over 
which he hasnt been kept updated. And, Ive also taken into account that he doesnt know 
what the present position is with these five outstanding claims. So, I think its reasonable for 
CCB to cease work on these five claims as well as any other outstanding claims they are 
pursuing for Mr T and provide him with full details of the claims to allow Mr T to pursue these 
himself. CCB shouldnt cancel any outstanding claims with the lenders, they should only stop 
working on the claims and provide all details to Mr T. CCB havent provided evidence to 
show how much work has been carried out on the outstanding claims. From the information I 
do have, it appears the work is limited to sending a letter of authority to the lenders. CCB 
havent provided any evidence of work carried out beyond this. So, they shouldnt charge 
any fees for the outstanding claims. 
Its clear from Mr Ts emails and letters to CCB hes been left very upset and frustrated at the 
lack of updates and progress. So, I think its fair for CCB to compensate Mr T £150 to reflect 
not only the distress and inconvenience to Mr T but the period over which this has had an 
impact on him.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that CCB havent kept Mr T updated and havent progressed his 
outstanding claims. So, they should cease work on the five claims Ive referred to above and 
any other outstanding claims and contact Mr T within 14 days of Mr T accepting the decision 
and provide full details of these claims  this should include the present position on each 
claim together with the account number(s) and the lenders reference number so Mr T can 
pursue the claims himself. CCB also shouldnt charge any fees for the five claims I have 
referred to above as well as any other outstanding claims. And, CCB should pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr T.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman