DRN-3414539
The complaint
Y complains that One Sure Insurance Limited mishandled a fleet insurance policy.
Y is a courier company represented by Mrs I.
Where I refer to One Sure, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Sure
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
One Sure acted as an intermediary between Y and insurers. For the year from 21 July 2020,
One Sure arranged a policy for a fleet of 5 vehicles at a premium of £20,234.68. Y was 
paying that by instalments.
From around December 2020, One Sure  at the request of the insurers  asked Y for some
documents. On 8 January 2021, One Sure sent Y a 7-day notice of cancellation of the policy.
On 6 February 2021, One Sure sent Y a letter saying that the policy had been cancelled.
So Y needed a new policy in February 2021 instead of in July 2021. Y says the new policy
cost about £24,000.00.
One Sure said that - because of a claim - the whole of the yearly premium was payable. So,
rather than a refund for the period February to July 2021, One Sure said Y owed a balance.
Y complained to One Sure that it had cancelled the policy without giving a reason  and Y 
did not owe the balance.
By a letter dated mid-February 2021, One Sure told Y of its right to bring its complaint to us.
Y brought its complaint to us in late February 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator didnt
think that - when the insurers had requested the lease agreements  One Sure asked Mrs I
for the lease agreements. The investigator thought that One Sure was responsible for the
cancellation having been enforced. The investigator recommended that One Sure should:
1.calculate the pro-rata time on risk from 21 July 2020 to cancellation date of 6 
February 2021; and
2.confirm the payments made towards the policy (Mrs I has provided evidence that 
seven direct debit payments were made totalling £17,170.98); and
3.pay the difference between this with no cancellation charges added + 8% statutory 
interest from the date the policy was cancelled; and
4.pay the difference between the increase in premium of the consumers new policy 
upon evidence of this by Mrs I of the amount +8% statutory interest from the date the 
policy was cancelled; and
5.provide Y with a letter to advise the cancellation was done incorrectly so that this can 
be provided to any future insurer; and
6.pay Y £200.00 for inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Y and 
to One Sure on 26 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
Y wouldnt have been able to provide either V5s or leasing agreements in the name 
of Y. So I thought it was inevitable that the insurers wouldve cancelled the policy.
I didnt find that One Sure caused, or was responsible for, the insurers decision to 
cancel the policy.
The charge for time on cover is a charge set by the insurers. So I didnt hold One 
Sure responsible for its calculation.
The legal assistance and arrangement fees were non-refundable in line with One
Sures terms of business.
The cancellation fee of £85.00 is higher than I would usually expect. But the policy 
had involved documents for several vehicles. So I was minded that £85.00 was 
proportionate to the administrative work involved.
Subject to any further information from Y or from One Sure, my provisional decision was not 
to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct One Sure Insurance Limited to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
One Sure accepted the provisional decision and had nothing to add. 
Y disagreed with the provisional decision. Mrs I says in summary, that:
One of the vans is a company owned/registered vehicle. She has sent us the V5.
Y had insurance with the same insurer and broker for 3 consecutive years for the 
same vehicles. Y paid approximately £55,000 for premium for these 3 years. In the 
fourth year, the broker transferred its commercial part to One Sure. They said they 
are too busy to deal with this type of policies.
When Y asked them to update its company address from one address to another in 
the same street, One Sure raised the premium with $1,400. Y didn't have much time 
to browse for other quotes and purchased this one. 
The insurer had provided coverage for four consecutive years with the same vehicles 
and for the same company. So there was no reason to cancel. They had on file all of 
Ys documents all these years and obviously have accepted them previously.
Y had a valid lease agreement, a copy of which was requested from One Sure after 
the policy was cancelled. Y have provided copies (by email dated 17 February 2021) 
thinking One Sure needed those in order to reinstate the policy. Unfortunately they advised they only needed these in order to obtain a new quote from a different 
insurer. However, they said they can request a new quote, but the new quote will not 
cancel the outstanding amount they require Y to pay.
The rent commencement date on the second page of the lease agreement is when Y 
requested a copy of the lease agreement from the company with updated terms 
previously agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, One Sure was acting as an intermediary between Y and insurers. I wouldnt
hold One Sure responsible for the actions of the insurers unless One Sure  by act or
omission - caused the insurers to take actions that they wouldnt otherwise have taken.
I havent seen enough evidence to show what happened in the few years before July 2020. 
From what Y has said, a predecessor acted as intermediary before One Sure took over its 
business. In view of what happened later, I can see why Mrs Is recollection it that One Sure 
was less interested in Ys business. But Ive focussed on the acts or omissions for which 
One Sure was responsible.
Y has said that One Sure raised the premium on a change of address. But I find it more 
likely that the premium was set by the insurers. So I dont hold One Sure responsible for its 
calculation.
Whatever happened in previous years, I dont hold One Sure responsible for the insurers 
requests for documents for the policy year from July 2020.
On 22 December 2020, the insurers asked One Sure to get certain documents from Y
including V5 vehicle registration documents (or lease agreement for any leased vehicle) and
a utility bill.
On 31 December 2020, One Sure asked Y for documents.
On 8 January 2021, One Sure emailed Y a reminder. It also sent a letter giving 7 days
notice of cancellation. I find that it did so on behalf of the insurers.
By 15 January 2021, the insurers had received V5 documents. On that day, the insurers
asked One Sure why the V5s were in a name other than Y.
On 28 January 2021, One Sure sent the insurers Mrs Is email saying that the vehicles were
leased. On the same day, the insurers asked One Sure for copies of the lease agreements.
On 29 January 2021, One Sure wrote a letter to Mrs I asking for a utility bill. Ive seen
evidence that Mrs I sent a utility bill to One Sure the same day.
On 3 February 2021, the insurer instructed One Sure to cancel the policy. From what Ive
seen, this was because it hadnt received the lease agreements. But One Sure hasnt shown
us enough evidence that it had asked Y or Mrs I for the lease agreements at that time. So 
Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if One Sure had asked Y for the lease 
agreements before 3 February 2021.From what Ive seen, one of the V5s was in the name of Y. But the V5s for the other 4  
vehicles were in the name of another company whose name included the word freight. In 
response to the provisional decision, Y sent us a copy of a lease agreement dated 15 July 
2020 from the freight company to Y relating to those 4 vehicles.
The lease agreement provides for rent to commence from 17 February 2021  the same 
date as the email sending the agreement to One Sure. So I find it likely that  despite its 
date of 15 July 2020 - the lease agreement was drawn up and signed after the cancellation 
of the policy in early February 2021.
Theres no evidence that  in relation to the 4 vehicles - Y wouldve been able to provide 
either V5s or leasing agreements if One Sure had asked for them before the cancellation. So 
I think it was inevitable that the insurers wouldve cancelled the policy. And I dont find that 
One Sure caused, or was responsible for, the insurers decision to cancel the policy.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to write a letter to Y saying that it or 
the insurers cancelled the policy incorrectly. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
One Sure only to charge pro rata for time on cover, with no cancellation fee. And I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to compensate Y for the extra cost of the new policy 
or for inconvenience.
One Sure has said that the statement of account is as follows:
Debits Credits balance
Time on cover £20,234.68
Legal assistance £       34.50
Arrangement fee         £      65.32
Cancellation fee          £      85.00
Sub-total      £20,419.50
Payments £13,442.89
£6,976.61
The charge for time on cover is a charge set by the insurers. So I dont hold One Sure
responsible for its calculation. But in any event, I would expect insurers to charge the full
premium for the year as there had been a claim before the cancellation.
I find that the legal assistance and arrangement fees were non-refundable in line with One
Sures terms of business.
The cancellation fee of £85.00 is higher than I would usually expect. But the policy had
involved documents for several vehicles. So I consider that £85.00 is proportionate to the
administrative work involved.
Whilst I can understand the financial impact on Y, I dont find One Sure responsible for the 
cancellation and I dont find it unfair that One Sure asked Y to pay the balance between 
£20,419.50 and what it had already paid.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to do any more in response to 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman