DRN-3446679
The complaint
D, a sole trader, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt provided a free 
clients account for the business as it said it would.
What happened
D is a long-standing customer of NatWest. D is unhappy that NatWest hasnt kept to an 
agreement not to apply bank charges for its clients account. And that it said that it now 
would instead be applying charges. 
NatWest said that charges on Ds current account ending in number 5422 had been waived 
for a number of years. But that it should have offered D a specific clients account when this 
product became available in 2008. In 2017 D had told it that it was moving its account to a 
different business, so it agreed to arrange for a free tariff to continue until it was closed. This 
account remained open. From July 2021 charges were again applied as NatWest said that 
the arrangement couldnt continue for this account. And it said that charges would apply from 
8 October 2021. It paid D £300 as there had been a delay in responding and dealing with a 
blocked card. After the complaint had been referred to this service it offered to pay a further 
£200.
Our investigator didnt recommend it do anything more. He said that charges on the account 
had been waived in the past as a gesture of goodwill. But that D was fairly bound by the 
conditions of the account and that as a result charges were applicable. But he agreed that D 
had been caused inconvenience and that this was reflected in the offer of compensation. D 
wouldnt be charged fees if it used a clients deposit account.
D didnt agree. It said that it had a telephone conversation with a member of staff in June 
2002 who had said that it could have free banking on a clients account. Free banking 
continued for a year and it was told about a new account to use. It received cheque books 
but not a paying in book so it couldnt use this. The agreement had been that it wouldnt be 
charged on its clients account. D is unhappy that NatWest has been unable to obtain a copy 
of this call. It said that the compensation it had been paid related to the problem with its 
account being blocked and poor service. And so, the £200 offered for this issue was 
insufficient and £500 was more realistic. And it wanted NatWest to honour the agreement.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2022. I set out below what I said.
My understanding was that NatWest never intended to charge D for transactions relating to 
money held on behalf of its clients. The issue was that a specific clients account product 
wasnt established for D back in 2008 as should have happened. And that while D paid 
charges on its office account it wasnt charged for the account it was using for clients 
monies. D has explained that at times this arrangement didnt always work. But that 
whenever it raised this with NatWest it received a refund of charges.
I could see that this happened in 2017. And at the time the arrangement for account 5422 
continued because NatWest thought D was going to be closing it.
D referred to a conversation with a relationship manager in 2020. But I noted that a new 
account was opened on 6 June 2019 with account number ending 8587. And this was a 
client deposit manager account. The system record from NatWest shows that paying in 
books on that account were issued on 6 June 2019 and then 5 October 2021  the first with 
numbered slips up to 50 and the second from 51 onwards.
NatWest also says that in September 2019 it agreed to a free charging tariff for account 
ending 5422 for 18 months. This was to allow time for D to inform all its clients to start 
paying into the new account. This was to end on 28 May 2021.
I had no more information about a conversation D said it had with a new relationship 
manager in June 2020 than its told this service. In light of what Id said above I had no 
reason to doubt that a relationship manager would have told D that if it used account 8587 
for client monies then it wouldnt be charged. In a call with this service D says it never 
received a paying in book and took the view it couldnt use the account and left it and 
continued to have free banking on the other account.
The position on account 5422 changed in 2021 when charges were applied. Again, D 
queried this, and this time was told that it wasnt a mistake. In the final response letter 
NatWest stated we can no longer offer free banking on your clients account and that this 
would end from September 2021. What that letter didnt say was that D could use account 
8587 for free. D thought NatWest had gone back on the agreement. It was unhappy at the 
slow response to the issue and that its card account had also been blocked for unrelated 
reasons. And it was then offered £300 in compensation. After D had further discussion the 
date from which charges would apply from was extended to 8 October 2021. As I set out 
above a further paying in book for account 8587 was sent out on 5 October 2021 which 
seemed to correspond to the time when the other account would become chargeable.
I thought the information from NatWest has been confusing to D. Had it said at the outset the 
clients deposit manager account remains the one to use with no charges this could have 
been avoided. But D didnt understand that to be the case and it seems to have been a key 
reason for this case being referred to this service.
The position is that D could always have avoided paying any charges on clients funds. It has 
known since at least 2017 that this would involve using a different account. And it has been 
allowed time to migrate to that account. It hasnt done so. I couldnt see a record of another 
paying in book being ordered before October 2021. But I didnt see D followed that up. 
NatWest has decided that the other arrangement cant continue any more with account 
5422. But it didnt make it clear enough to D that it could use account 8587. 
I appreciated that D was affected by service issues and an account being blocked. And 
NatWest accepted it didnt respond as quickly as it should. As Id said its final response 
wasnt clear and this caused D more inconvenience. And although our investigator told D 
that the clients deposit manager account was still the charge free option that didnt come 
from NatWest to D and D still doubted this. I wanted to confirm this in a provisional decision 
and explain the background so that both D and NatWest could comment and deal with any 
residual uncertainty.
I needed to think about whether the compensation now offered is sufficient. I understood that 
D wants a further £500 on top of the £300 already paid. I knew D would be disappointed 
when I said that I thought that the offer already made is reasonable. I said I was considering 
everything that happened including the blocked card and poor service. And I took into 
account what D reasonably knew since 2017 about the requirement to change the account to be used in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest didnt make any further comments.
D didnt agree. It said that the first time it was told that it needed a different sort of account 
was when it spoke to a relationship manager on 8 June 2020. It was never told prior to this 
anything about having to set up another account to benefit from free banking on the clients 
account. It also said it was never told that it would continue the free banking until it closed its 
account when it was seriously thinking about moving it.
It did agree to open a differently named account to continue to receive free banking but 
never received any paying in books. As this has been set up it wanted to know why if it 
wasnt going to benefit from free banking. 
D said that the issue of one of its cards being blocked was a completely separate one and 
which is why NatWest paid £300 in compensation. D said if I wanted more information about 
that and what a fiasco it was it could supply the evidence. That is the reason why it wants 
the further £500 for this specific issue about the clients account. 
D said it expects that free banking could continue provided it used the new deposit manager 
account.
I have considered these comments carefully. I am now going to quote specifically from some 
documents that I relied upon in making my provisional findings as there are matters that 
remain in dispute.
On 15 June 2017 NatWest wrote to D about a previous issue with charges. It said
I agree  that you have  incurred  charges  in error  as although  you do not have  a client  account  
opened  with us, you have  not been  advised  at any point  that a new account  was required  and 
instead  of your previous  Relationship  Managers  fixing  the issue  for you. You simply  had charges  
waived  for you, which  is not the correct  process  for us to have  followed.  I am so sorry  for the 
inconvenience  caused  to you.
You confirmed  that a new account  was not required  to be opened  for you, as you will be looking  to 
move  to [another  bank]  in September  2017  due to the closure  of your local  branch.  I have  therefore  
agreed  to arrange  for a free tariff to be applied  to the account  until closure  and will liaise  with Jordan  
in regards  to this so that you are not inconvenienced  any further.
And also, in relation to the clients deposit account Ive seen an email D sent to NatWest on 
17 May 2019 as follows:
Please  find attached  the filled  in and completed  Client  Deposit  Manager  Account  Application  Form  
that Jordan  asked  me to send  you.
I have seen a record that confirms that this account was opened on 6 June 2019. I set out 
in my provisional decision the position regarding the paying in books for the account. And 
that D had decided as a result to have left it.
Im satisfied from the above that D was reasonably aware it needed the new account to 
continue to receive free banking. And that this is why the account was opened. As I mentioned before I cant further resolve what D was told in June 2020 but by then the 
account was open. 
The final response letter to this complaint dated 3 August 2021 covers accepted service 
issues relating both to the blocked card and communication about the clients account. Im 
satisfied that the compensation then awarded relates to all issues. It was paid on that day. 
And NatWest has also increased the offer of compensation when the case was with this 
service with a view to resolving things. Im satisfied that our investigator in his view was 
clear that he was assessing the overall position. I referred to this too in my provisional 
decision and if D wanted to provide evidence about this then its had the opportunity to do 
so. 
I made clear in my provisional decision that my understanding is that D can use the clients 
deposit account without charges. That remains a matter for NatWests ongoing commercial 
discretion. But it hasnt disagreed with my summary of the current position.
There has been an element of recent miscommunication about this account as Ive said. 
But in my view D has reasonably been aware of the different account since 2017 and 
opened the account in 2019 for this purpose. I cant see it made NatWest aware it didnt 
receive the paying in book in 2019  or that if these had been promised again in June 2020 
it followed this up. I have considered all the service elements covered by this complaint and 
I still find that the compensation now offered is reasonable. So, I know D will remain 
disappointed when I say that I wont be increasing this to £500 more than has already been 
paid as D still wants. I consider that the overall compensation offered remains reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint on the basis that National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay D a further £200 as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman