DRN-3666529
The complaint
Miss S has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S contacted QIC to make a claim when she found water staining to a ceiling in her 
home. QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor couldnt fully inspect the loft 
space but concluded that the damage was most likely caused by a roof tile lifting. QIC 
declined the claim for damage to the roof as it said there werent storm conditions around the 
time of the damage. However, it agreed to pay for the internal damage under the accidental 
damage part of the policy.
When Miss S complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said the 
surveyor hadnt found evidence of storm damage and hadnt found any damage to the roof 
as the result of an insurable event and there was no evidence of any external damage 
located above the affected internal area.
So, Miss S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the 
roof damage should be covered under the accidental damage part of the policy. He said that 
although the Storm part of the policy said there was no cover under the policy for normal 
weather conditions, the weather at the time of the damage wasnt normal. He said QIC 
should review the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, pay interest 
on any settlement amount and pay Miss S £150 compensation for the claim being declined 
incorrectly.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Im aware that QIC agreed to pay for the internal damage under the accidental damage 
cover provided by the policy. However, it didnt agree to cover any damage to the roof, as it 
said it didnt identify damage consistent with a storm.
The policy terms and conditions said that a storm was when windspeeds were 55mph or 
greater. Ive looked at weather reports and didnt see any windspeeds that would meet QICs 
definition of a storm. Ive also read the surveyors findings and looked at photos of the roof. 
The surveyor didnt find any damage to the roof and having looked at the photos, I also didnt 
see any damage. 
Im aware the surveyor said he thought the reported damage was caused by an ingress of 
rain due to a roof tile lifting in the wind. So, Ive also thought about this. Although I think 
strong enough wind speeds could cause roof tiles to lift, I wouldnt normally expect roof tiles 
to lift on a well-maintained roof. Given the windspeeds around the time of the claim, which 
based on the weather reports Ive seen were up to 42mph, I dont think those would normally 
cause roof tiles to lift unless there was a pre-existing issue with the roof. So, I think it was 
reasonable for QIC to decline this part of the claim as storm damage because there wasnt 
evidence of storm conditions or of damage consistent with a storm.
Ive also looked at whether the claim should have been covered by any other part of the 
policy. Miss S had accidental damage cover under the policy. Accidental damage covered 
sudden, unexpected and physical damage. However, as I dont think a roof tile would 
normally lift in the weather conditions around the time of the claim unless there were pre-
existing issues, I dont currently think the claim is covered by this part of the policy either. 
Accidental damage cover doesnt cover damage that happens gradually or wear and tear.
Im also aware that Miss S has said she isnt happy about the amount offered by QIC to 
settle the claim for the internal damage. I havent currently seen any evidence that this was 
part of the complaint Miss S made to QIC and that Im considering. She would need to 
complain to QIC about this, so it can consider this.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to 
require QIC to do anything further in relation to it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 August 2022.
QIC didnt reply.
Miss S replied with a range of comments. In summary, these were:
The circumstances of the complaint were incorrect.
The surveyor had visited and taken photos of one side of the roof. He hadnt entered the 
loft because it wasnt boarded and so it posed a health and safety risk. The surveyor 
declined Miss Ss offer for him to view two other perspectives of the roof.
During the visit, the surveyor showed Miss S local weather reports that showed a storm. 
The surveyor also told her he had cancelled playing golf due to the storm.
The surveyor took photos of the lounge ceiling and said this was covered under the 
policy. They also discussed possible causes including the central heating. The surveyor 
said it was storm damage and told her to look in the loft for water coming in through the 
roof.
Miss S checked the loft after the visit and saw wet insulation and the end wall was 
completely saturated. There were tiny rays of light where the end wall top and cemented 
tiles meet. She said this ruled out any other cause of water damage to the lounge ceiling 
other than storm damage.
QIC opened a claim and Miss S got some quotes. QIC also confirmed there had been a 
localised storm that wasnt recorded via national weather reports.
Miss S then found out that the roof part of the claim had been closed, although she 
wasnt notified of this. So, she raised a complaint to find out the reason for this. QIC 
explained this was based on the surveyors findings. Miss S disagreed with this as she 
said there was clear evidence of damage to the cement holding the roof tiles and of a 
damaged tile.
QIC refused to re-open the complaint so Miss S asked for a complaint form and a copy 
of the complaints policy to be sent to her.
QIC insisted on asbestos testing the lounge ceiling, which required drilling holes. 
Materials were able to fall through the holes until Miss S filled them. She was also 
concerned the ceiling would collapse.
Miss S received details of the money for the repair to the lounge ceiling, which she 
queried with QIC. QIC said it could put it to a panel to assess. Miss S asked for a 
complaint form and the complaints policy to be posted to her.The complaint form didnt arrive. When Miss S attempted to access the online portal for 
the claim, it had been closed without notifying her.
Miss S contacted QIC and was told the whole claim had been closed. She hadnt been 
notified and hadnt received a payment for the repairs.
Miss S asked QIC only to contact her in writing.
Miss S was still waiting for QICs complaint forms and policies and procedures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive carefully considered the comments made by Miss S, but this 
doesnt change my view about this complaint. I should also clarify that before I made my 
provisional decision I read all of the evidence from both parties, including what Miss S had 
said about the surveyors visit and other details. In my decision, I focussed on the details 
that, in my view, were key to making a fair and reasonable decision.
Miss S said QIC and the surveyor told her there had been a local storm that wasnt reported 
in the national news. I havent seen evidence to support this, but even if there was a storm, 
that isnt why the claim for the roof was declined. It was declined because the damage itself 
wasnt consistent with a one-off incident of a storm. Even where damage is found during a 
storm, the damage needs to be consistent with a storm and the storm needs to be the main 
cause of the damage. 
In this instance, it was assessed that the likely cause was a tile lifting, although the surveyor 
couldnt see any damage. I would expect a well-maintained roof to withstand a range of 
storm conditions. I wouldnt normally expect a tile to lift unless there was a pre-existing issue 
with the roof. Miss S has said she also found evidence of a gap where the wall and the 
cemented tiles met. But what I havent seen is evidence that was the result of a one-off 
storm incident rather than a pre-existing issue highlighted by weather conditions. So, this 
doesnt persuade me that QIC needed to deal with the claim for the roof. However, if Miss S 
has evidence that shows this damage and that is was caused by a storm, this doesnt 
prevent her from putting this to QIC to consider.
Miss S has also explained about the claim for the internal damage. Based on what she has 
said, I still havent seen evidence that the internal damage formed part of this complaint. 
Miss S has described the problems she has had with obtaining a complaint form and QICs 
policies and procedures. For both the issues with the internal damage claim and QICs 
complaints handling, Miss S should raise this with QIC. I remain of the view that I cant 
address it as part of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman