DRN-3820874
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Skyfire, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the 
intermediary and others insofar as I hold Skyfire responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sporty four-wheel drive car.
For the year from August 2018, Mr K took out a comprehensive policy for the car through an 
insurance intermediary. He renewed the policy in August 2019, 2020 and 2021. 
From at least the 2021 renewal, Skyfire was the insurance company responsible for dealing 
with any claim. The policy documents said that Mr K had 11 years no-claims bonus (NCB) 
which was protected. The premium for the year from August 2021 was about £442.00.
Unfortunately, in late December 2021, the car hit the rear of a third partys vehicle. Skyfire 
arranged for Mr Ks car to be recovered from the scene and later taken to a salvage yard 
about 70 miles from his home.
In mid-January 2022, Skyfire inspected the car. Skyfire said the car had an aftermarket air 
intake/induction modification and Mr K had carelessly misrepresented that the car had no 
modifications. So Skyfire was treating the policy as void from August 2018. It declined to 
meet Mr Ks claim. It said it would refund the premiums. 
In late January 2022, Mr K complained through us to Skyfire. He said that it should pay his 
costs of getting his car back and of doing repairs to it. He also said that Skyfire should 
remove the record that his policy was void  and reinstate his NCB.
By a final response dated March 2022, Skyfire maintained that the policy had been void. It 
said that it was adding 8% simple interest of about £6.00 to the refund of premiums. It said it 
was sending £50.00 compensation for the service Mr K had received. Mr K didnt accept 
that. So we began an investigation.
In mid-August 2022, Skyfire said that it had settled the third partys claim for about £6,000.00 
and it asked Mr K to reimburse it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Skyfire had acted fairly and reasonably when determining whether Mr K made a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). However, as the modification was only made in January 2021, the 
investigator said that the policy should only be avoided from the start of the policy year from 
August 2021.
Skyfire accepted the investigators opinion. Mr K didnt respond to the investigators opinion. 
So the investigator asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that a consumer must complain to the firm and 
wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate that complaint.
I dont consider that Mr K has complained to Skyfire about the calculation of the amount of 
its refund or interest  or about its request for reimbursement of its outlay to the third party. 
And Skyfire hasnt given a final response to any such complaint. So I make no findings on 
any such complaint.
CIDRA imposes a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer when taking out or changing an insurance policy. If the 
consumer doesnt take such care, then the consequences depend on whether the 
misrepresentation made a difference to the insurer, that is whether there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. If the misrepresentation meant that the insurer offered cover when it 
wouldnt otherwise have done so, then the insurer may treat the cover as void.
The policy terms included the following:
Changes which may affect your cover
As some changes will affect your cover, you should tell the insurer immediately about 
any change to the details you have previously declared on your Statement of Fact, 
for example:

 a modification to your car which improves its performance or handling, including 
over the air updates from your vehicle manufacturer. Any modification which 
improves the value or increases the chances of it being stolen or someone breaking 
into it to steal what is inside 
Theres no evidence that the car had a modification or that Mr K made a misrepresentation 
when he took the policy out in August 2018 or when he renewed it in August 2019 or 2020. 
From what Mr K has said, I find that in January 2021, he spoke to a company who had a 
name that included the word sport and who specialised in installing performance parts on 
vehicles. Mr K personally installed an aftermarket air intake/induction.
Mr K has referred to that part as a filter. But Skyfires engineer took a photograph of the air 
intake. He has said that the part allowed more air into the engine and increased its 
performance. From the photograph, I conclude that Mr K mustve known in January 2021 
that he was doing a modification.
For the renewal in August 2021, the intermediary produced a statement of fact document. I 
find it likely that it was based on the previous years. It included the following: 
Please read the following information carefully. It is a record of statements made 
and information given by you and constitutes the basis of your contract of Insurance. 
If any information is omitted or is incorrect, please telephone us immediately with the correct information If any of the information is incorrect it could invalidate your 
Insurance or result in a claim not being paid.
The statement of fact included the following:
Modifications No
Im not satisfied that Mr K took reasonable care in August 2021 to avoid making a 
misrepresentation about the modification hed done in January 2021. 
Skyfire has shared with us its confidential underwriting criteria including a list of acceptable 
modifications. These dont include an aftermarket air intake/induction. So I accept Skyfires 
statement that if Mr K hadnt said there was no such modification, it wouldnt have offered 
him cover. So Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
As Skyfire wouldnt have offered cover, I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that it treated the 
policy as void at the time of the accident in December 2021. I dont find it unfair or 
unreasonable that Skyfire declined to pay Mr Ks claim for repair of his damaged car and that  
Skyfire left Mr K to pay for the collection of his damaged car from the salvage yard.
As the policy was void at the time of the accident, I dont consider that the policy could 
protect Mr Ks no-claims bonus. In any event, Skyfire refunded premiums for the four policy 
years from August 2018  and it met the third partys claim. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Skyfire to give Mr K evidence of NCB. 
I agree with the investigator that Skyfire should only have treated the policy as void from 
August 2021. But Mr K benefitted from a refund of premiums since August 2018. And I cant 
see that he was worse off through Skyfire treating the policy as void from that date. 
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Skyfire to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman