DRN-4458560
The complaint
Mr M complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (Atlanta) applied unfair 
charges after the cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.          
Atlanta (a broker) arranged Mr Ms motor insurance policy and sent him his policy 
documents for the cover along with its terms and conditions.
Some weeks later, Mr M sold the insured vehicle and sent a letter to Atlanta 
requesting cancellation of his policy. Mr M had 25 days on cover before cancellation.
Atlanta set out the cancellation charges Mr M had to pay, which included a pro rata 
payment of the annual policy premium for the time Mr M was on cover along with 
Atlantas non-refundable arrangement and cancellation fees. It sent Mr M the 
following breakdown of these charges:
o£122.95  charge for time on cover
o£75.00  non-refundable arrangement fee
o£50.00  non-refundable cancellation fee
o£247.95  total cost of cover
At the time of cancellation, Mr M had already paid a deposit of £164.73 towards his 
annual premium. So Atlanta deducted this from the total cost of cover set out above, 
leaving an outstanding balance to be paid by Mr M of £83.22.
Mr M disagreed with Atlantas calculations. He said the cancellation and arrangement 
amounts had already been covered in the deposit hed paid, and that Atlantas 
calculation for the cost for time on cover was incorrect as it was more than his 
monthly premium when in fact, hed only been on cover for 25 days.
Mr M brought a complaint to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it as he was 
satisfied the charges were fair. Mr M disagreed so the case was passed to me to 
make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2023. Ive included part of what I 
said in this below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to uphold this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In arranging and cancelling Mr Ms policy, administrative tasks wouldve been carried out by 
Atlanta. And its not unusual for it to charge certain fees for these tasks. But these must be 
reasonable and applied fairly.
Mr M disagrees that he should have to pay more than the deposit hes already paid to 
Atlanta upon cancelling his policy. He says that had he known Atlanta would be requesting 
more than this amount from him, he couldve looked for an alternative policy or left the 
vehicle off road, as he didnt need to drive it and intended to sell it.
I take Mr Ms point on board, but given hes said he didnt need to drive the car its unclear 
why he didnt do just that instead of taking out a policy. The fact that he took cover 
persuades me that he most likely wanted cover to continue using the vehicle for the time that 
he did. And as brokers/insurers often charge cancellation and administration fees, its 
unlikely he wouldve avoided these types of costs elsewhere seeking out a similar policy.
I understand that a welcome letter and Atlantas terms of business were emailed to Mr M on 
the day he took out the policy. From what Ive seen, these documents set out the £75 
arrangement fee and £50 cancellation charge along with the fact theyre non-refundable and 
that they apply to Mr Ms policy.
These charges are broadly in line with what Ive seen brokers charge for their time and costs
in administering a policy and were set out in the terms and conditions that were sent to Mr M
and that he was told to read. So based on what Ive seen so far in this particular case, Im
not persuaded theyre unreasonable and I think theyve been fairly applied.
Mr M has also been charged for the time he was on cover. From what Ive seen, Atlanta
seems to have calculated this by deducting the premium refund the insurer has allowed from
the total cost of Mr Ms annual policy premium, arriving at a figure of £122.95.
Atlanta says the amount appears higher than Mr M expects because the annual premium of
£1098.21 that was quoted to Mr M in his policy documents included a broker discount of
£250.54 (as well as the £75 arrangement fee). But as per its terms of business, if the policy
is cancelled after fourteen days, any broker discounts are reversed prior to cancellation.
Therefore, without the discount it gave him, Atlanta says Mr Ms policy actually cost
£1273.75, minus the insurers premium refund of £1150.80 equates to £122.95 left to pay for
the time on cover. Mr M thinks this is unfair. In principle, I dont think this sort of term would
be inherently unfair providing it was sufficiently drawn to Mr Ms attention in the terms and
conditions he agreed to. But from what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded it was.
I say this because, while the terms and conditions Ive seen do state that any broker
discounts will be reversed prior to cancellation, they dont specify whether Mr Ms specific
policy has benefitted from such a discount and if so, the amount involved. It seems Atlanta
was aware of the discount amount applied to Mr Ms policy. And it makes a notable
difference to his premiums and in turn the amount he would pay on cancellation. So, I think it
could and should have been brought to his attention by Atlanta when he took the policy out
to allow him to make an informed choice.
By failing to do this I dont think Atlanta has met its obligation of providing Mr M with
information thats clear, fair and not misleading. So based on what Ive seen so far, Im not
currently persuaded that its reasonable for Atlanta to apply the reversal to the discount it
gave Mr M in this case. And therefore, Im minded to conclude that Atlantas calculation for
time on cover should be based on the premium it quoted to Mr M, which by my calculations
would leave an amount outstanding of £30.27. Ive set out my calculations below:
£1,098.21 minus £75.00 arrangement fee, equals a policy premium of £1,023.21.
£1,023.21 divided by 365 days equals a daily rate of £2.80.
£2.80 multiplied by 25 days equals £70.00 for the time Mr M was on cover.£70.00 plus the £75.00 arrangement fee and £50.00 cancellation charge equals 
£195.00 for the total cost of cover.
£195.00 minus the £164.73 already paid by Mr M leaves £30.27 outstanding.
Unless Atlanta or Mr M provide me with evidence in response to this decision that persuades
me otherwise, Im likely to direct Atlanta to reduce the amount it seeks to recover from Mr M
in this case from £83.22 to £30.27. And conclude that Atlantas pursuit of this remaining sum
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Both parties were given a chance to respond. Atlanta said it had nothing further to add but 
Mr M disagreed with my findings. 
In summary, Mr M maintains that he shouldnt have to pay anything more than hes already 
paid to Atlanta as this should more than cover the cancellation and administration fees as 
well as the cost for time on cover. He says that other companies have waived cancellation 
charges for him in the past whereas Atlanta sent him generic correspondence chasing the 
payment owed and threatened to take action if it wasnt paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, Mr M provided comments in response to my provisional decision. I can 
assure Mr M that Ive fully considered whats been said, but it hasnt changed my mind in this 
case. Ill explain why.
Its worth noting my decision isnt based on how other businesses have handled policy fees 
and charges with Mr M in the past. I can only consider Atlantas actions in this case. And 
while I note Mr Ms strength of feeling that hes paid enough to Atlanta, my provisional 
decision already considered this and set out the applicable charges, why I thought these 
were fair and what this meant for the amount Atlanta seeks to recover from him in this case. 
Mr M hasnt told me anything further that changes these findings.
Mr M is unhappy with how Atlanta communicated with him regarding the monies owed and 
says the situation has caused him a lot of stress, which I was sorry to hear. But there is an 
amount outstanding to Atlanta from Mr M. And from what Ive seen, it sought recovery of this 
by alerting Mr M to this fact and to the potential consequences of not paying the monies 
owed. This isnt unusual or unreasonable in the circumstances of this case, so these points 
dont change my conclusion. 
It follows, after considering Mr Ms response to my provisional decision, my conclusion 
remains unchanged. Therefore, I think its fair that Atlanta reduces the amount it seeks to 
recover from Mr M in this case from £83.22 to £30.27.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
direct Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited to reduce the amount it seeks to recover from 
Mr M in this case to £30.27.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman