DRN-2522022
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lowell Financial Ltds actions when seeking to recover a debt. Mr M 
says Lowell has failed to show the debt it is seeking to collect was taken out by him. Mr M 
also complains that Lowell failed to treat him fairly despite being aware of his circumstances.
 
What happened
A credit card was opened in Mr Ms name in September 2016 but was closed at the 
beginning of 2017 after payments werent made. The original lender terminated the 
agreement and sold the debt to Lowell in March 2018. 
On 1 June 2018 both Lowell and the original lender wrote to Mr M to confirm the new 
arrangement and that there was a balance of £146.24 to pay. Lowell also acquired other 
debts it says belong to Mr M. 
Lowell contacted Mr M about the debt and in October 2018 he asked it to deal with a third 
party that was helping with his finances. In February and March 2019 Mr M discussed his 
circumstances and told Lowell how his mental health had impacted the situation. Lowell 
agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by 50% and Mr M made payments until November 
2019. 
Mr M asked Lowell to send him the original paperwork he signed when agreeing to open the 
credit card and complained about how it had treated him. Lowell responded on 2 January 
2020 and said it was obliged to send him a true copy of the original which shows the terms 
accepted, not a photocopy. Lowell didnt agree it had treated Mr M unfairly and didnt uphold 
his complaint. 
Mr M referred his case to this service and it was passed t an investigator. The investigator 
first said we could only look at complaints relating to debts that had come about under a 
credit agreement. In a follow up letter, the investigator said they thought Lowell had treated 
Mr M positively and sympathetically in relation to the mental health difficulties he told them 
about and thought the agreement to reduce the debt by 50% was fair. 
Mr M asked to appeal and said he wasnt persuaded the debt was legally owed as he hadnt 
been sent anything to show it was his. Mr M also said Lowell had failed to take his mental 
health into consideration and hadnt treated him fairly. As Mr M didnt accept the 
investigators view, his case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator sent Mr M two sets of findings. The first, dated 9 November 2020, said the 
Financial Ombudsman Service could only consider Mr Ms complaint about the credit card 
debt Lowell acquired. Mr M responded to confirm he understood. The investigator then sent 
Mr M his view concerning how Lowell had handled the credit card debt it acquired. Mr M has 
confirmed he understands we can only consider his complaint about the credit card debt and 
my decision will follow those lines. 
I can see Mr M is concerned that Lowell has failed to provide a copy of his original credit 
agreement that shows he signed up for the credit card. I can understand his frustration and 
why he wants to get a copy of his credit agreement. But, Lowell has confirmed it doesnt 
have the original credit agreement. Lowell says it has provided a true copy of the account 
terms, along with its Notice of Assignment that shows Mr M was the borrower. 
I cant say whether Lowell can enforce the debt in court, thats not the role of this service. 
And whilst I understand Mr Ms concerns that Lowell hasnt sent him the document he wants, 
I havent found grounds to tell it to stop contacting him. Like the investigator, I think theres 
enough information to show Lowell acquired a debt in Mr Ms name and that it has a 
legitimate reason to ask for repayment. Whilst I can see the original credit agreement isnt 
available, Im satisfied theres enough other information to show Lowells decision to contact 
Mr M about the debt is reasonable. 
Mr M has told us a lot of personal information about his state of mind and mental health. Id 
like to thank Mr M for his candour, I can see hes been through a very difficult time. When 
businesses are made aware that a customer suffers with their mental health they need to 
ensure theyre treated fairly. Ive looked at how Lowell treated Mr M after he made it aware 
of the mental health difficulties hes been through. 
I can see that when Mr M spoke with Lowell in October 2018 it agreed to place the account 
on hold so a third party acting on his behalf could contact it. Mr M and Lowell conversed by 
email in February and March 2019 and more details about the difficulties hes faced were 
provided. Having read the emails, I think Lowell took time to listen to what Mr M told it and I 
can see it placed the account on hold for 30 days. 
Lowell later offered to reduce the outstanding balance. After Mr M gave it further information 
about his mental health, it agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by half, leaving an 
outstanding balance of £73.12. In my view, Lowell listened to what Mr M told it about his 
circumstances, changed its approach and treated him fairly. 
Mr M completed a Data Subject Access Request and says some of the information he found 
was concerning as it didnt note the mental health concerns he told Lowell about. I can see 
that the document Mr M has forwarded says no impact but I think Lowells actions show it 
did take Mr Ms mental health into account and make adjustments when dealing with him. Mr 
M also found some of the information he received to be offensive. Having reviewed the 
documents he sent, I didnt see anything I found to be offensive in the information provided. 
I think Lowell has a legitimate reason to contact Mr M about the credit card debt it acquired 
as an outstanding balance remains. As Ive said above, Im satisfied the information shows 
Mr M used a credit card with the original lender which was sold to Lowell with an outstanding 
balance. Going forward, Lowell is aware of Mr Ms circumstances and that it will need to treat 
him fairly. 
Mr M complains that Lowell has recorded information about the debt on his credit file. But 
Lowell is obliged to report information about accounts it holds. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M 
but I havent found grounds to tell Lowell to amend his credit file. 
Whilst I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I havent found that 
Lowell treated him unfairly or that its requests for him to settle the outstanding credit card 
debt it acquired are unreasonable.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman