DRN-1488576
The complaint
Ms K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) incorrectly charged her a policy 
excess fee, on her home emergency insurance.
What happened
In February 2019, BG attended Ms Ks home and carried out an annual service. The day 
after the service Ms K reported that she had no hot water. BG had told her that there 
wouldnt be an excess fee charged. When the engineer attended, Ms K said that he also 
confirmed that there wouldnt be any excess to be paid. 
A few weeks later, Ms K received an invoice for the policy excess charge for £60. She 
contacted BG and raised a complaint. In its final response, BG didnt agree to waiver the 
charge as it said the fault her boiler experienced wasnt due to the annual service, so the 
excess was payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. It did accept 
that Ms K was given incorrect advice originally by its advisor and it apologised for the level of 
service she experienced.
Ms K was unsatisfied and so referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said that:
BG had relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy which allowed it to charge 
the excess. 
The excess became chargeable as Ms K had reported a fault.
That BG had acknowledged its mistake after it had told Ms K that she wouldnt be 
charged.
If BG had initially correctly informed Ms K that she would have to pay the excess, it is 
likely she would still have gone ahead and asked BG to carry out the repairs.
If BG had initially correctly informed Mrs K that she would have to pay the excess, it 
is likely she still would have gone ahead and asked BG to carry out the repairs.
BG correctly invoiced Ms K, unfortunately as Ms K chose not to pay the invoice it 
affected her credit file, which BG werent responsible for. 
Ms K didnt accept our investigators view as she said that BG had given her the incorrect 
information twice. She felt that the documentation BG supplied was misleading, so she 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether BG acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Ms K. I think there are three specific aspects to this complaint. Firstly, the 
incorrect information given. Secondly, Ms K felt that the documentation BG relied upon was 
misleading for customers. Finally, the affect Ms Ks failure to settle the invoice has had on 
her credit file.
BG has accepted that during the phone call, its advisor gave Ms K incorrect information 
regarding the payment of the policy excess. Ms K said that the engineer who attended also 
said that no excess would be charged. So I can understand why Ms K felt she was given 
misinformation on two occasions. But, I have reviewed the job sheet which was completed 
by the engineer who attended, it said: replaced PCB, fault not related to service chargeable. 
So I am persuaded by BGs explanation that the fault found, wasnt as a result of the annual 
service (which Ms K had the day before). 
I also think that, in using the word chargeable here, the engineer was referring to the fact 
that the repair that needed to be carried out would involve Ms K having to be charged a sum 
of money. That was because her policy carried a £60 excess for repair work that needed to 
be undertaken
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and it makes it clear that the excess is 
the amount that the policy holder agrees to pay to each completed repair or replacement. So 
BG has applied its terms fairly and I cant say that Ms K wouldnt have been aware that a 
charge was likely. 
Ms K also complains that the documentation that BG relied upon was confusing as there 
was no explanation about what it meant by chargeable work. Ive asked BG for an 
explanation of this and what it says is in line with the information that it previously told Ms K. 
Chargeable work BG has explained means work that isnt covered by the terms of the 
policy. I can understand why this may have caused some confusion, as Ms K has been 
charged a sum of money for the repair. But that was payable because the fault that Ms K 
contacted BG for was covered under the terms of the policy. She wasnt charged for the full 
repair, but an excess fee was still due. So, I cant say that BG was unreasonable by 
requesting that the excess is paid. 
This is further supported by the terms and conditions of the policy document which says:  
Your statement shows how much excess or fixed fee youve agreed to pay each time we 
complete a repair.. Or, we find a fault during a first service or annual service. If the fault 
is related to one weve fixed for you in the last twelve months, then you wont have to pay an 
additional excess or fixed fee. Our engineer will use their expert judgement to decide 
whether a fault is related to an earlier fault or not.. send you an invoice for the excess or
fixed fee after weve completed the repair.
From this evidence, I think that BG has indicated that if a fault happens, the excess fee is 
payable. It seems that if there is a re-occurring fault then the excess fee isnt payable. But in 
this case, a fault hadnt re-occurred as from the evidence, this was the first time that Ms K 
had requested an engineer to report a fault. In addition, the engineer who attended, noted 
that the fault with the boiler had nothing to do with the service. So, I cant say that BG was 
unreasonable to rely upon the terms and conditions of the policy when it requested for Ms K 
to pay the excess.
I have finally looked at the effect on Ms Ks credit file by the unpaid excess charge. Ms K has 
said that out of principle she didnt pay the excess charge and I can understand her position. 
But, BG sent reminders seeking payment of the excess charge. I can see that it explained to Ms K in phone calls that the excess was payable, and it was for Ms K to decide if she wished 
to pay it. Regrettably, Ms K chose not to pay it and I see that a search was recorded on her 
file. 
Our investigator asked for further information from Ms K to see a full credit file (as only a 
snapshot was sent) to assess the impact this made on Ms Ks credit record. Unfortunately, 
Ms K didnt supply this, so I can only assess the evidence that I have. 
BG has applied a marker showing an unpaid debt. As Im satisfied the excess was payable 
and Ms K accepts it hasnt been paid, I think BG has applied the marker to her account 
factually, showing how shes conducted her contract with it. And I think it was entitled to do 
so as its an accurate record and reflection of the way the policys been maintained.
So overall, I am satisfied that BG correctly invoiced for the excess fee charge and that it 
treated Ms K reasonably and I cant ask it to do anything more in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman