DRN-3766629
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C complains Barclaycard irresponsibly approved him for a credit card in December 2015. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. Barclaycard 
agreed with this recommendation.
After this agreement was reached there were further disagreements about the redress which 
would stand following our services involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to Mr C in December 2015. As such I 
wont make any further finding in relation to that aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been lent this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right in a fair and reasonable way. 
And as the customer will have had the use of the funds they were lent, wed typically expect 
them to repay this and so the lender should place the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to the credit which shouldnt have 
been provided. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per 
year. 
Barclaycard has agreed to do that here, but even after this Mr C will still have a balance 
made up of the funds he spent left on his account. Mr C accept this but hes unhappy that 
Barclays wont remove any adverse information that it has recorded on his credit file.
But removing any adverse information here would require Barclaycard to record that Mr Cs 
account was repaid in full and on time even though theres still a balance outstanding. And I 
think that it would be unfair to Barclaycard and Mr C. This is because it would be 
unreasonable in its logic and inaccurate if I asked Barclaycard to amend Mr Cs credit file in 
this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened or the current position either.
I know Mr C says he will repay the outstanding balance. And that Barclaycard should 
remove the adverse information at that point. But this balance has been outstanding for 
some time and I dont know if or when Mr C will repay this. I also think that this removing 
adverse information thus recording the balance was paid on time, in these circumstances, 
would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Cs best interests, or those of any 
potential lender. And I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to say thats 
what Barclaycard should do in these circumstances.
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclaycard has 
already done to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Barclaycard to put things right by: 
Rework Mr Cs credit card balance to ensure that all interest, fees and charges 
are removed. 
Id also remind Barclaycard of its obligation to exercise forbearance should outstanding 
balances remain after all adjustments have been made to Mr Cs accounts and its the case 
that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman