DRN-4072107
The complaint
Miss D and Mr M complain that esure Insurance Limited has unreasonably declined their
claim for storm damage to their roof. I appreciate that they are joint policyholders, although
for convenience in this decision Ill refer to Mr M alone, as he has dealt with the complaint.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr M reported a claim to esure as his roof had been damaged by a storm.
He was asked to provide an estimate from a local tradesperson. Mr M duly provided an
estimate which said that taking into account the labour time to repair the affected areas it
would be viable to replace the whole rear elevation, at a cost of £7,752 (though as I note
below, Mr M did get the affected areas only repaired). esure sent out a surveyor from a claim
validation company (B) to review the damage. This was to a section of tiles on the rear
elevation just on the edge. The surveyor reported back that the claim should be declined due
to Natural breakdown of materials.
Mr M complained to esure. As well as disputing the declining of the claim he said that the
surveyor it sent had been rude and aggressive to Miss D. esure sent a final response letter
on 4 May 2022. It said its surveyor had drawn attention to the poor state of the roof. It further
said that the ridge was bowed and several of the slates had temporary ties in place.
Mr M disputed that this was the case. He said the roof was well maintained and that it was
only the exceptional storm that had caused the damage. He had the repairs done, though
only to the affected area of the roof, for £890. His roofer said the damage was caused by
storms and the rest of the roof had been kept in good order. He also provided information
about online customers reviews of esures surveying service.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service two of our Investigators considered the
complaint. They both said that esure had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
Mr M disputed this and said that his roofers evidence should be taken into account, he also
provided further information about storms in the area.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that esure hadnt produced evidence from its 
surveyor of the natural breakdown of materials or the alleged state of repair of the roof. So I 
said it should pay the claim and compensation of £150.
Mr M replied to my provisional findings, pointing out that hed told the roofer who initially 
quoted for the repair that they wanted their roof to be incredibly safe for the future. This was 
why the roofer quoted for the whole back part of the roof to be replaced. This was the first 
insurance claim they had ever made.
esure didnt comment on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
As our Investigators have advised, when considering complaints about claims for storm
damage we ask three questions, and its only if the answer to all three of those questions is
yes that wed be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to
have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Question 1
The applicable part of the definition of storm in the policy is:
A violent gale force 10 on the Beaufort scale reaching wind speeds of 55 mph or above
and/or 25mm or more of rainfall in any 24-hour period.
A peak gust of 69mph (force 11) was recorded on the day the damage occurred. So I think
it would be fair to say that there was a storm.
Question 2
The damage consisted of a number of slates being blown off of the roof. I think that is
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
Question 3
esure has declined the claim on the basis that it does not consider the storm to be the main
cause of the damage.
I have reviewed the evidence which esure has shown us to justify the decline of the claim.
The direct evidence from the surveyor who visited the property is contained in his report
which has the following conclusion:
When the surveyor inspected the main roof he observed that there was no evidence of any
damage which can be attributed to a single identifiable insured peril. The cause of this
damage is the result of natural breakdown of materials over a long period of time.
There is no other narrative in the report. On Bs portal the property is described as being in a
fair state of repair. However, in esures final response letter, the roof is described as being
in a poor condition, the ridge is bowed, with evidence of previous repairs where slates have
been replaced previously in this area, and others tied in as a temporary measure. Whilst this
is said to be Bs conclusion, Ive seen no evidence on esures file of a telephone
conversation or an email exchange between it and B. I would have thought that sort of
evidence would show on Bs report or in its notes. When the invoice for repair was sent to B
it merely commented The attached has not provided any further evidence that would allow
us to overturn the decision.
Whilst some other tiles, particularly along the edge do have tingles or straps on them which
is a type of repair completed where the slates cant be repaired with nails, theres certainly
no indication that this was a temporary repair. Miss D and Mr M had been living there for six
years and they hadnt had any such repairs done. More importantly Bs report referred to thenatural breakdown of materials but contained no analysis of the tiles that had actually come
off the roof. So it doesnt show to me that its conclusion can be maintained in respect of the
areas of tiles that had been blown off.
Mr M has had two roofers look at the roof, but I think the opinion of the roofer who actually
did the repair should be taken into account. This is because the repair was:
Supply and fix various slates to the rear slope of the main roof replacing all broken, missing
and slipped slates.
They also commented that the rest of the roof had been kept in good order. I wouldnt expect
a roofer to have any particular expertise in respect of whether a storm caused damage an
insurance policy would cover. But I do think the roofers conclusion concerning the state of
repair of the roof should be taken into account, particularly as they didnt think the whole of
the rear elevation needed replacing.
The windspeed recorded was 69mph, and, as the weather station is four miles further inland
from the property, its likely to have been higher at the propertys location. That sort of wind
(according to, from the Royal Meteorological Societys website, the Beaufort Scale) is said to
be very rarely experienced, accompanied by widespread damage.
I dont think that esure has shown that the damage was caused by the natural breakdown of
materials or the alleged poor condition of the roof. So I think its likely that it was caused by
the storm. 
I would further draw attention to esures comment when reviewing Mr Ms further comments, 
that Even if we are to cover the tiles that came off in the storm to put him back in the 
position he was beforehand, the ph has made it clear that he would be unhappy with this,
which confirms the poor pre-existing condition of the roof. I dont think thats the case,
although Mr M initially had an estimate to renew the rear elevation of the roof, his invoice for
repairs was to do just as esure describes. Having had that invoice previously sent to it, Im
surprised it made that comment, and I would suggest it review the situation as it was after
the actual repair.
surveyors attitude
Mr M says that the surveyor was rude and aggressive to Miss D. And has shown us some
online comments regarding B. However I cant take account of other cases where I dont
know the circumstances. Ive noted esures apology but without being present or having any
other evidence apart from Miss D and Mr Ms assertion, I cant reach any finding about this.
compensation
I think esure should reimburse Miss D and Mr M for the invoice for the roof repairs, together
with interest from the date the invoice was paid. They should bear in mind that there is an
excess of £375 on their policy which will be deducted, and they will need to show esure
evidence as to when the invoice was paid.
Ive noted that Mr M wants to be compensated for his time in responding to the complaint.
We dont usually award compensation for the time spent making a complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service. But I do recognise the inconvenience to which he and Miss D have 
been put as a result of esures unfair and unreasonable decision and I propose to award 
compensation of £150.With regard to Mr Ms comment, I should make it clear that esure didnt think he had 
exaggerated his claim in any way. It didnt accept that the whole rear elevation needed 
replacing, but as I commented in my findings, it should have changed its stance when it saw 
the actual invoice for repair.
As neither party has made any other comments on my provisional findings, I remain 
persuaded by them. Those findings, as set out above are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
pay Miss D and Mr Ms invoice for roofing repairs, of £890, less the excess, and, subject
to proof of payment, add interest* at 8% from the date the invoice was paid until
reimbursement.
pay £150 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require esure to deduct tax from any award of interest. It
must give Miss D and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if they
ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before10 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman