DRN-2327902
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain through their representative, a claims management company (CMC), 
that they were given unsuitable investment advice in 2005 by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs A received investment advice from Nationwide in 2005. At the time of the sale it 
was recorded that:
They were 56 and 54 respectively with no dependants
They owned their own house with no mortgage and had no other liabilities
Mrs A had been retired for a number of years and Mr A had recently retired and they 
were living on Mr As pension income of £700 per month 
They had a net disposable income of £95 per month
Mr A had received around £68,000 from a lump sum payment from his pension and a 
redundancy payment. They had £8,000 in joint savings and £5,075 in premium bonds
They wanted advice on investing £50,000 of their available capital
There is no record of them having any investment experience and they were 
assessed as having a low attitude to risk
The advisor recommended a range of investments. He advised them to put:
£5,000 in a two year fixed rate bond with an annual rate of 4.5%
£5,000 in a three year fixed rate bond with an annual rate of 4.5%
£12,000 in a five year Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) which at the end of the term 
would return at least the original investment plus 10%. It also had the potential to 
pay a return of 55% based on the growth of three indices
£14,000 (£7,000 each) in a stocks and shares ISA, invested in the High Income Fund
£14,000 in a Unit Trust, split with £4,000 in a High Income Unit trust and £10,000 in a 
Target Return Unit Trust
The CMC complained on Mr and Mrs As behalf to Nationwide in 2019, they thought the 
recommendation was unsuitable because:
Mr and Mrs A were not given adequate time to reflect on the advice 
Their attitude to risk were not fully assessed and the advisor failed to know his 
clients.
The level of risk within the investment was inappropriate
Their future needs and objectives were not considered
They had a low level of disposable income in retirement therefore it should have 
been clear that there was a potential need to access their capital during the term of 
the investment.
They were advised to invest too much of their free assets
The GEB contained a risk of a nil return which Mr and Mrs A did not have a sufficient 
understanding of
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint so the CMC brought it to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld as 
the recommendation seemed to be broadly suitable for Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the 
time.
The CMC didnt accept his findings. As theres been no agreement the case has been 
passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
I think it was a reasonable aim to try to improve upon the return Mr and Mrs A were getting 
from their deposit accounts for some of their capital, provided it wasnt exposed to too much 
risk. Given their circumstances, and also taking into account that their income would 
increase in the future when they started to receive their state pensions, I think they were in a 
position to accept a low level of risk.
I appreciate that at the time of the advice Mr A had only recently retired. Therefore the 
money he and Mrs A had on deposit would have been required to support them over the 
years ahead. However the recommendation from the advisor meant that only around a third 
of their capital was exposed to investment risk. And even then, that level of risk was low.
The High Income Fund that was recommended was primarily made up of corporate bonds, 
gilts and fixed interest securities. I think this matched Mr and Mrs As attitude to risk at the 
time and wasnt an unsuitable recommendation. There isnt much information about the 
Target Return Fund but from what Ive seen this also appears to have been a low risk 
investment so Im not persuaded it was an unsuitable recommendation.
I note the points the CMC has made about the GEB but on balance I dont think it was 
unsuitable. It met Mr and Mrs As wishes for a product with a capital guarantee and unlike 
the majority of similar products which didnt guarantee any kind of return, it guaranteed a 
return of at least 10% on their capital with the potential to earn a return of up to 55%.  
The advice they received meant that they still had around £53,000 on deposit or in capital 
guaranteed products, of which around £26,000 was immediately accessible. On balance, I 
think that they had enough on deposit for emergencies.
So taking everything into consideration, I think that the advice they received wasnt 
unsuitable. The advisor appears to have constructed a well diversified, balanced portfolio of 
investments that was in line with their stated attitude risk and circumstances at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman