DRN-1163800
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt accepted 
responsibility for his card being declined by a merchant when he was on holiday.
Background
Mr S has a credit card with Barclaycard. He tried to use the card when he was on holiday to 
pay for a hire car. The card was declined. He contacted Barclaycard at the time but he says 
it refused to do anything to help him. It told him that there was nothing wrong with his card.  
Mr S says that he had to use a debit card to make the payment which meant that he incurred 
additional costs. 
When he returned to the UK he complained to Barclaycard. It told him that it had 
investigated the issue. It said that the merchant had been using a third party as its acquirer 
but the acquirer had technical issues which meant that the payment request had not been 
sent to the card scheme operator (VISA). Because of this, Barclaycard said that the payment 
request had never been presented to it. Barclaycard said that it hadnt done anything wrong 
but agreed to pay Mr S £100 as compensation for the difficulties hed experienced. It also 
suggested that Mr S should contact VISA and the acquirer to see if they would offer him any 
further compensation.
Mr S was not satisfied with Barclaycards response and so he complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that since Barclaycard hadnt received 
the request it wasnt responsible for what had happened. In the circumstances his view was 
that the actions Barclaycard had taken were fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint for mainly the same reasons as our investigator.
When a credit card is used to make a payment a number of different parties are involved. 
Each party has its own particular role to play. The acquirer (the organisation that the 
merchant uses to process its card payments) is responsible for receiving the card 
transaction details from the merchants terminal. The acquirer then passes the details to the 
card issuer (in this case Barclaycard) via the card scheme (in this case VISA). When it 
receives the payment request the card issuer decides whether to authorise the payment.
Ive looked at what happened in this case and I can see that the card details never reached 
Barclaycard. This meant that Barclaycard didnt receive any request to authorise the 
payment. I can see that Mr S did contact Barclaycard at the time. I can understand why he 
thought it wasnt doing anything to help him. But, I dont think that there was anything it couldve done when it hadnt received a request, through the payment system, to make a 
payment out of his account. 
I can also see that since this incident, Barclaycard has been able to discuss the issue with 
VISA. Barclaycard says that its been told that there were technical issues which meant that 
card transactions were declined by the merchants terminal. VISA had subsequently been 
working with the acquirer to put a fix in place.
Having thought about this, on balance, I'm satisfied that because of these technical issues 
no payment request was passed from the acquirer to VISA. And, this meant that no payment 
request was sent to Barclaycard for authorisation. Barclaycard says that its also been told 
that these technical problems have now been resolved. 
I can see that Mr S thinks Barclaycard should be responsible for the extra costs that he 
incurred when he had to use a debit card to make the payment. But, having considered the 
information that Barclaycard has provided, I'm satisfied that it didn't receive a payment 
request and so I don't think it did anything wrong in this case.
Barclaycard has offered Mr S £100 as compensation for the difficulties he experienced. I 
think this is fair and reasonable and I dont expect it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman