DRN-2258889
The complaint
Mrs R complains about a mobile telephone she bought using her account with Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card.
What happened
In early March 2019, Mrs R used her account with Argos to buy a brand new mobile 
telephone. Mrs R made the purchase through Argos website and the price of the telephone 
was £799. Mrs R was able to repay the balance of her account gradually and she also had 
the benefit of an interest free period.
A few days later, the telephone was delivered to Mrs Rs home. But, when she opened the 
packaging, Mrs R says Argos had delivered an older version of the telephone that she had 
bought, and it was damaged.
Mrs R contacted Argos shortly after the mobile telephone was delivered. They told her to 
take it to one of their stores, so it could be inspected. Once there, Mrs R says the store 
manager confirmed that the telephone didnt work, but couldnt arrange for a replacement or 
a refund. Mrs R spoke again with Argos customer helpline and they confirmed that they 
would not be able to take the telephone back from her.
Because Argos wouldnt replace the mobile telephone, Mrs M complained and raised a 
section 75 claim, in that she hadnt been given the item she had bought. Argos considered 
the claim and said they had received the telephone, already packaged, direct from their 
supplier. They said Mrs R hadnt told them the packaging had been tampered with, so she 
must have received the item she had ordered. 
Argos also told Mrs R that she should contact their supplier directly, as the responsibility lied 
with them. But, to help compensate Mrs R, they agreed to refund her travel costs, from when 
she took the telephone to their store for inspection.
Mrs R didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
Mrs Rs case and concluded that Argos hadnt delivered the telephone which Mrs R had 
ordered. He was persuaded that the telephone Mrs R had sent pictures of, wasnt the item 
listed on her account statement, or the invoice from Argos. 
The investigator found that Argos should have upheld Mrs Rs section 75 claim and asked 
them to provide her with a refund and to take the telephone back. He also asked Argos to 
pay Mrs R £100, for the distress and inconvenience they had caused her.
Mrs R accepted the investigators conclusions. Argos acknowledged the findings, but didnt 
say if they accepted them or not. As the case couldnt be settled, Mrs Rs complaint has 
been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Mrs R bought the mobile telephone from Argos, using her card, which is linked to an account 
with them. The account is a regulated credit facility. So, we are able to consider complaints 
about it.
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides 
protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75, 
subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a card like Mrs Rs, to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Having considered the background of Mrs Rs case, Im satisfied that in her complaint, the 
criteria exists for her to be able to bring a section 75 claim against Argos. I can also see that 
Argos gave Mrs R a receipt, which itemised the specification of the mobile telephone, when 
she used her account to buy it. So, Im satisfied that Mrs R had bought and was expecting to 
receive a specific item from Argos.
Mrs R says that the mobile telephone she received was different from what she paid for. I 
must therefore consider if Argos delivered what Mrs R had bought.
The mobile telephone received by Mrs R
Argos have explained that they take deliveries of mobile telephones directly from the 
manufacturer, to their storage centre. They have told us that the telephones arrive, each in 
their individual a box, with a security seal. These are then stored in security controlled room 
with close circuit television. 
When the mobile telephone is ready for sending to a customer, Argos say its placed in a 
tamper proof bag and given a label with a customers delivery address on. Argos have also 
told us that when Mrs R received her delivery, she didnt report anything to say that the 
package had been opened prior to her receiving it.
In short, Argos say that Mrs Rs telephone was boxed up by the manufacturer and that they 
dont have any evidence to say the package had been tampered with at their storage centre, 
or by the courier. Argos havent provided us with any records to support what theyve said. 
So, I have to consider what I think is fair and reasonable, based on the evidence we do have 
about the delivery.
I cannot make conclusions about how Argos delivers their orders to customers. I can 
however, see that Argos told Mrs R to contact the manufacturer directly, to complain about 
the security seal on the box, which held the telephone she received. I dont think this was the 
correct advice, as its for Argos to investigate concerns with their own supplier.
Mrs R has sent us photographs of all the packaging she received from Argos and hasnt said 
anything about it being tampered with, before she opened it. I accept that it doesnt seem 
likely that the package was opened, after it left Argos storage centre. But, I dont think this 
shows which telephone was in the box, when Argos sent it to Mrs R.
Ive also thought about a video Mrs R sent to us of the mobile telephone she says she 
received. The video wasnt filmed at the time of delivery, rather during our investigation. I 
can see that the telephone in the video is damaged in several areas and Mrs R is unable to 
switch it on. This is consistent with what she says she was told by the store manager at Argos. 
Overall, I think the photographs, videos and evidence Mrs R has sent to us, show she took 
the reasonable steps of a customer who had a concern with a delivery. Having considered 
everything, I think Argos had a responsibility to Mrs R, to show that the manufacturer had 
provided them with the correct item. I think what Mrs R has told us is persuasive and on 
balance, I think it was possible for the wrong telephone to have been placed into the box she 
received.
So, Ive considered what happened after the telephone was delivered and the other 
information we have about the warranty, to help to fairly decide if Mrs R received the wrong 
mobile telephone.
The warranty and Mrs Rs actions
Mrs R has sent us screen shots of an online chat conversation she had with the 
manufacturer of the mobile telephone. I can see that during the conversation, Mrs R used 
the International Mobile Identity Number (IMEI) from the packaging, she says came with the 
mobile telephone. 
The packaging contains the same description of the phone, itemised on the receipt given to 
Mrs R by Argos. So, I think Mrs R used the correct details for the phone which appeared on 
the packaging and that she had ordered, in her dealings with the manufacturer.
During the online conversation, the manufacturer confirmed that the phone had a validated 
purchase date, and that the one year warranty was estimated to expire in June 2019. Mrs R 
purchased the mobile telephone in March 2019. So, I think the device which Mrs R made 
enquiries about with the manufacturer, had been registered with them some time before she 
took delivery of it.
Argos say the expiry date of the one year manufacturers warranty, was an estimate, so 
cannot be relied upon. Having considered everything though, on balance, I think the 
information held with the manufacturer is persuasive. I think the warranty information 
supports Mrs Rs argument, that the mobile telephone registered with the manufacturer is 
different from the handset she received from Argos.
Ive also thought about what Mrs R did, when she says she took delivery of the mobile 
telephone. I can see from what Mrs R says and from Argos delivery records that the mobile 
telephone was delivered on 12 March 2019. 
Mrs R has sent us copies of the transcript, of an online chat conversation she had with Argos 
on the same day. Within the conversation, Mrs R explained to Argos that the telephone she 
had received wasnt the model she had ordered and that it was damaged. The advisor from 
Argos told Mrs R to take the telephone to one of their stores for inspection. I can also see 
that Mrs R had a similar online conversation three days afterwards, where she was told the 
same thing.
I think Mrs Rs actions following the delivery were reasonable. So, Im persuaded that Mrs R 
took steps to try and sort out the problems with the telephone, as soon as she became 
aware. 
Ive also looked at Mrs Rs own recollection and detailed description of what happened, 
when she took the telephone to the Argos store. She says the store manager confirmed the 
mobile telephone she had, wasnt the same model as she had ordered. I think Mrs R has 
been consistent and credible in what she has told us. I also think the details Mrs R has given us are detailed, persuasive and support what she says happened.
The statement history of Mrs Rs account with Argos shows that she had bought items 
previously and repaid the balance owed. So, I dont think the mobile telephone was Mrs Rs 
first purchase from Argos, and that she had been a customer for quite some time 
beforehand.
Having considered everything, on balance, I think the information from the manufacturer 
shows that the warranty associated with the handset of the box Mrs R opened, had already 
been activated before the package was delivered it to her. I also think, on balance, that 
Argos confirmed that the telephone Mrs R was given, wasnt the phone that she ordered.
Summary
In all the circumstances, I dont think Argos have shown that the correct mobile telephone 
was delivered to Mrs R. I think Mrs Rs version of events is consistent and credible and that 
on balance, she didnt get the mobile telephone that she had ordered.
I think Mrs R was entitled to receive what she had used her account with Argos to pay for. 
As I dont think she received the mobile telephone she ordered, I think theres been a breach 
of contract and that Argos havent treated Mrs Rs section 75 claim fairly or reasonably.
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs R
When Mrs R spoke to Argos to make a section 75 claim, she was told to contact the 
manufacturer of the phone, to investigate how it was delivered to them. I dont think it was 
fair or reasonable to expect Mrs R to take up these enquiries, although I can see that she 
spoke to the manufacturer on several occasions. 
I can also see that Mrs R was asked by Argos, to take the mobile telephone to an Argos 
store, only to be told they couldnt help further. And this advice was repeated when she tried 
to make further enquires with them.
Overall, I think Mrs R experienced distress and inconvenience during her section 75 claim 
with Argos. So, I think its fair for Argos to pay Mrs R an award to reflect the impact on her, 
while she tried to sort things out.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Argos are responsible for the breach of contract, where Mrs R didnt get 
the mobile telephone she had ordered. So, I think Mrs R is entitled to a remedy.
I think its fair for Argos to allow Mrs R to return the handset she was sent, at no extra cost to 
her. I also think Argos should remove any balance from Mrs Rs account, associated with the 
purchase of the mobile telephone and refund any payments she has made towards it. This 
should have the effect of re-working Mrs Rs account with Argos, as if the purchase of the 
telephone didnt happen.
Mrs R has explained that she has kept up with her payments to Argos where possible. 
Although Ive not seen a copy of Mrs Rs credit reference agency records, I think its fair for 
Argos to remove any adverse information they may have recorded, from when the purchase 
was made, to when this complaint is settled.
Ive also concluded that I think Argos have caused Mrs R distress and inconvenience 
through the handling of her section 75 claim. Argos have offered to pay Mrs Rs travel expenses when she tried to return the telephone to the store. But, I dont think that reflects 
the inconvenience shes been caused. In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Argos pay 
Mrs R £100 in recognition of the impact on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited trading as Argos Card to:
- allow Mrs R to return the mobile telephone delivered to her by Argos, at no extra cost 
to her;
- remove the outstanding balance for the mobile telephone from Mrs Rs account with 
Argos;
- refund any payments Mrs R has made towards the mobile telephone;
- remove any adverse information from Mrs Rs records with credit reference agencies, 
about her account with Argos from 10 March 2019 to the date of settlement; and
- pay Mrs R £100 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Argos must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs R 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Argos deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mrs R, they should provide Mrs R with a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman