DRN-3516421
The complaint
Miss A complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans she couldnt afford to
repay.
What happened
Miss A was advanced 13 home collected loans between February 2020 and September
2021. Ive included some of the information weve received from Morses in the table below.
loan 
numberloan amount agreement 
dateterm (weeks) weekly repayment
1 £200.00 13/02/2020 34 £10.00
2 £200.00 05/05/2020 34 £10.00
3 £200.00 01/07/2020 34 £10.00
4 £200.00 03/08/2020 34 £10.00
5 £100.00 29/09/2020 34 £5.00
6 £200.00 11/11/2020 34 £10.00
7 £200.00 21/12/2020 34 £10.00
8 £200.00 08/02/2021 34 £10.00
9 £100.00 22/03/2021 34 £5.00
10 £200.00 06/05/2021 35 £10.00
11 £300.00 14/06/2021 35 £15.00
12 £200.00 26/07/2021 35 £10.00
13 £100.00 07/09/2021 35 £5.00
Miss A had some problems repaying loans 10  13 however, these loans have now been
settled following Morses final response letter.
Following Miss As complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it was going to partly
uphold her complaint. Morses explained that it would pay compensation to Miss A in relation
to loans 3  13. This would result in a refund to Miss A of £471.80. Morses also agreed to
remove the upheld loans from Miss As credit file.
Miss A called Morses shortly after the final response was received and agreed to the
compensation offered in the final response letter in order to close the complaint.
Miss A then referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service saying that her
support worked told her not to accept the offer because Morses hadnt upheld loans 1 and 2
 and these loans were also unaffordable.
Miss A said she only wanted the Financial Ombudsman to consider the first two loans. She
also provided some documentation about her mental health problems and how it impacts her
daily life.
Morses asked the Financial Ombudsman Service not to look into Miss As complaint
because she had already accepted an offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Morses asked for the complaint to be dismissed.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator he concluded the case should be
dismissed. He said Morses had sent a final response letter, that made an offer to Miss A in
full and final settlement of the whole complaint. Miss A had accepted the offer and therefore
there was no longer an ongoing dispute that needs considering.
Miss A didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment she said she wanted someone else to
look at the complaint because her mental health impacts her ability to deal with and
understand things.
As no agreement was reached, the case has was passed to me. 
I then issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the Financial Ombudsman 
should consider the complaint and why I was intending to not uphold Miss As complaint 
about loans 1 and 2  which were the only loans I was going to consider. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in the provisional decision
Why we can look at Miss As complaint
We can help with lots of financial service disputes, but its not always appropriate for us to do
so. Morses says it isnt appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider Miss
As complaint because it feels it is resolved and so the case should be dismissed without
consideration of the merits. This is because it says Miss A accepted the offer it made for
loans 3 - 13 in its final response in resolution of all his complaint.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority DISP rules which govern the way we handle
complaints, DISP 3.3.4A (for complaints received after 9 July 2015) provides grounds on
which we may (my emphasis) dismiss a complaint without looking at the merits first.
One of those grounds (and the one which I think is most relevant here) is in DISP 3.3.4A (5)
which says: dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I dont think that Miss As complaint about loans 1 and 2 is one which, if this complaint was
to proceed, would fall into the category of being a serious impairment to the Financial
Ombudsmans effective operation.
Miss A accepts that she did confirm with Morses she wanted the settlement paid to her in
relation to loans 3  13. But she says her support worker told her that she shouldnt have
accepted the offer and she went on to explain that her mental health impacts her ability to
understand financial matters. Miss A has also provided the Financial Ombudsman a copy of
a letter produced by her social worker which outlines details of her medical history and how
her health impacts her decision making  further supporting what Miss A has told us.
The medical evidence provided is quite clear to me in showing how Miss As mental health
problems affect her decision making. Morses notes are also clear that it was on notice of
health problems Miss A experienced.
Having considered what Miss A is complaining about, the offer as well as the medical
evidence provided, I dont think it would impair the Financial Ombudsmans effectiveoperation to only consider loans 1 and 2.
But what I would say is the offer was clear for loans 3  13 and this has been accepted. Im
satisfied that there is no longer an outstanding dispute about these loans. And it appears
that Miss A isnt expecting us to make a finding about these loans. Im just making it clear 
that for these loans, I dont think it would be appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman to
reconsider the complaint as compensation has already been accepted and paid.
Notwithstanding the above, even if I were to consider these loans, it appears the
compensation that Morses offered and what was paid would be in line with what the
Financial Ombudsman may have recommended if it was decided that Morses shouldnt have
advanced those loans.
So, considering everything, Im satisfied this service can consider a complaint about loans 1
and 2. Ive gone on to consider whether, based on the information to hand Morses made a
reasonable lending decision for loans 1 and 2.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss A could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
As income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss A. These factors include:
Miss A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss A.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss A was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without unduedifficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss As complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Having looked at the evidence that Ive currently been provided Im intending to not uphold
Miss As complaint about these loans, and Ive explained why below.
Morse hasnt provided the date these loans were repaid. This means I dont know whether
any of the following occurred:
1. The loans ran concurrently.
2. Whether loan 2 was taken out on the same day that loan 1 was repaid (if it was) or
3. Was there some sort of break or gap between loan 1 and 2.
But whichever of the above is applicable it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome that
Im intending to reach. It may help if in response to the provisional decision Morses is able to
provide the repayment dates for each loan.
For both of these loans Morses advanced £200 and Miss A was required to pay at least £10
per week each week, for 34 weeks. So, Morses had to carry out a proportionate check to
enable to satisfy itself that she would be in a position to afford the repayments over the
lifetime of the agreement.
Morses has told us, in the final response letter that Miss As average income for these loans
was £276.50 with expenditure of around £122.50 leaving disposable income of around £154.
Which is more than sufficient to afford the weekly repayment of £10.
It may help, if in response to the provisional decision Morses can provide a copy of the
application forms, just for completeness.
It isnt clear from the information provided so far whether a credit search was carried out
before either or both loans were approved. It is worth noting that Morses wasnt required by
the regulations to do a credit search before granting a loan or indeed carry one out to a
specific standard. But what Morses had to do was carry out a proportionate check.
I also havent been provided with a copy of Miss As credit file, so even if a credit search was
carried out, I dont know what Morses may or may not have seen at the time. While
Miss A has told us she had County Court Judgements (CCJ) at the time, I dont have any
further information about them, because, the presences of a CCJ on a credit file may or may
not have led to Morses declining the application(s).
But as it was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate
for Mores to have gathered the level of information needed to show it that the loan was
unaffordable  so I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have started to
verify the information Miss A had provided. So, for these loans I think Morses carried out
proportionate checks which showed Miss A was likely to be able to afford the repayments
she was committing to making.
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware ofany financial problems Miss A mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on
the information it obtained and approve these loans.
Finally, Ive thought about what Miss A says about her mental health problems and how that
affected her ability to make financial decisions  this is supported by the letter she has
provided the Financial Ombudsman. However, Morses says that the first time it was told
about her health problems was in September 2021, which is after these two loans were
granted.
Its also worth noting here that the guidance says that even if Morses was aware of
Miss As mental health problems at the time the first loan was approved, that wouldnt mean
Morses would automatically have made an error by providing it. So, in this case Im not
going to ask Morses to pay any further compensation.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Miss As complaint about loans 1 and 2. I appreciate
Miss A will be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope my explanation has been useful in
explaining why Im intending to reach the outcome that I have.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Miss A and Morses were asked to provide any further comments or evidence for 
consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 3 June 2022. 
The adjudicator spoke to Miss A on the phone about the provisional decision and re-sent a 
copy to her in an email. But no further comments have been received from Miss A. 
Morses didnt responded to the provisional decision. Given the deadline for a response has 
now passed, I see no reason not to proceed to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new comments have been provided then I still think this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman can consider but only about loans one and two. Taking into account the 
evidence which has been provided to me, I think Morses made a reasonable decision when 
it lent loans one and two.  
Therefore, Im not upholding Miss As complaint about loans one and two.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman