DRN-1092090
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr S payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked 
the possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 25 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely 
fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I think Nationwide probably made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional, but that he still 
chose to take it. Mr S hasnt said he wasnt given a choice  his complaint is more that he 
wasnt given proper information about the PPI before deciding. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S as being particularly suited to his individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have 
been for Mr S to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had made a recommendation, 
I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in his circumstances at the time. 
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Mr S was self-
employed and so wasnt entitled to employer sick pay, so otherwise could have face 
difficulties if sick (or unemployed) for a long time. 
I can see that the PPI didnt start paying out for the first 90 days of a claim, which would 
cause some self-employed people a short-term difficulty  but Mr S has said he had 
substantial savings to fall back on. And also the PPI would have paid out for up to 24 months, and so could have saved Mr S from serious difficulties if he was unable to work for a 
very long time. So this all would have put Mr S in a more secure position, if hed eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. And it looks like he wouldnt have 
been caught by the limitations in the policy.
Mr S has said the PPI wasnt suitable for him because he was self-employed  and if hed 
been given more details he wouldnt have taken the PPI. But Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and this particular policy didnt make it difficult for self-employed 
people to claim. 
So, overall, I cant be sure how well Nationwide explained the detail of the PPI when selling 
it, but I dont think full information would have made a difference. Even with full information, 
its likely the PPI would still have seemed potentially useful to Mr S. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman